Documunt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-.,oV V7 V/- VJA 
Repor No. P-4989-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25.0 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
FEBRUARY 9, 1990
This docmet has a restricted disibuti  and may be used by rediplet only In the perfonrmane of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed witout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EqUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Jamaican Dollar (J$)
May 1979 - Jan. 1983         US$1.OOO - J$1.781       J$1.00O - US$0.561
Feb. 1983 - Nov. 1983
Official Ratet   US$l.O0O - J$1.781        J$1.0 - US$0.561
Parallel Rate:    US$1.000 - J$2.40-2.80  J$1.000 - US$0.42-0.36
Dec. 1983 - Nov. 1984
Floating Band System:    US$l.000 - J$4.30-4.0O  J$1.Q00 = US$0.25-0.23
Dec. 1984 - Oct. 1985
Free Floating Auction:    US$1.000 m J$6.10        J$1.OO0 = US$O.164
Nov. 1985 - Oct. 1989        US$1.000 - J$5."O        J$1.00O - US$0.182
Nov. 1989 - Jan. 1990        US$1.O0O - J$6.50        J$l.000 - US$0.154
Feb. 1990                    US$l.000 - J$7.00        JS1.000 - US$0.143
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB       = Agricultural Credit Bank
ARP       - Administrative Reform Program
BOJ       = Bank of Jamaica
CGA       - Citrus Growers Association
CoIB      - Cocoa Industry Board
JCTC      = Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
JPSCo     = Jamaica Public Services Co.
KfW       = Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
MOA       = Ministry of Agriculture
MTFP      - Medium Term Framewvork Program
NIBJ      = National Investment Bank of Jaraica
NIC       - National Irrigation Commission
OECF      = The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PCBs      - People's Community Banks
PIOJ      = Planning Institute of Jamaica
PSIP      = Public Sector Investment Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JLAMAICA
AGRICULTUkAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
RESDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Pase No.
Loan Smmry                                                              i-ii
I.   THE ECONOMY
Econom     c Deterioration in the    0l90                     s ...........................    1
Economic Stabilization and Adjustment in the 19809 ............   1
Recent Economic Performance ...................................    4
Financial Program in FY89 ..................................... S
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Main Characteristics and Institutional Framework ..............      6
Performance in the 1970s                   . . .    9
Policy Reforms in the 19809 .. .............................        9
Sectoral Response               .        .        ................ 12
Outlook and Future Reform Agenda .      .............................   12
Bank Involvement in Agriculture .      . .............................  13
7II. THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY THE PROPOSED LOAN
Rationale of the Proposed Loan ...............................    14
Agricultural Pricing Policies               ...... .                14
Agricultural Credit Policies ............................           18
Marketing of Cocoa and Citrus ............................          21
Public Divestment Program .....................................  23
Use of Chemical Pesticides        ......        , .............    25
Other Policy-Based Operations .                                     25
IV. OTHER FEATURES OF THE LOAN
Loan History .. .                                                   26
Loan Description.. . .                                              26
Procurement and Disbursement ..                    .                26
Records and Auditing ....                                           28
Monitoring ....    28
Cofinancing ....                                                    28
Benefits and Impact on the Poor ..                                  28
Risks ....   30
V.  COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK OPERATIONS
Main Development Issues and Policy Agenda .31
Macroeconomic Prospects .32
External Capital Requirements .32
Bank Exposure .33
Bank Assistance Strategy .                                          34
Creditworthiness for Bank Borrowing .34
VI.  RECOMMENDATION ........................................      .      35
This document has a restied distbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their officil duties Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without *i ori Dank authoruiionj



ANNEXS
I.    Macroeconomic Indicators and Prospects
II.    Basic Agricultural Data
III.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Jamaica
IV.    Agricultural Policy Reforms under Previous Adjustment Loans
V.     Agricultural Development Policy Statement
VI.    Sun-ary Schedule of Actions under the Proposed Loan
VII.   Details of Agricultural Trade Regime Reform
VIII.  Details of Public Divestment Program in Agriculture
IX.    Terms of Reference for Study of Chemical Pesticides
X.     Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
MAP (IBRD 20846)



JA4MICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrowers                      Jamaica
Amounts                        US$25.0 million.
Terms:                         Payable in 17 years, including a grace
period of five years at the standard
variable interest rate.
Loan Description:              The proposed loan would support
the Government's program of adjustment,
with particular focus on improving
the agricultural sector's prospects
for efficient growth. More specifically,
the reform program supported by the loan
woulds (i)improve the sector's incentives
framework through rationalization of the
import regime for agricultural coumodities,
reduction of generalized food subsidies,
deregulation of the citrus and cocoa
industries, and improvements in interest rate
policy and related aspects of directed
agricultural credit; (ii) continue the
process of divestment of public assets;
and (iii) establish the institutional basis
for dealing with the improper use of
pesticides. The loan would finance general
imports subject to certain restrictions.
Disbursement Estimates         The loan would be disbursed in two tran-
ches. It is anticipated that the first
tranche of US$12.5 million would be
disbursed soon after loan effectiveness.
The second tranche of US$12.5 million
would be released subject to a review of
the adjustment program to be held within
a year from loan effectiveness. Disburse-
ment of the entire loan is expected to be
completed within fifteen months of loan
effectiveness.
!iskes                         A major risk is that the proposed reforms
in the agricultural importation regime could
elicit strong opposition from affected
farmers and agroindustrialists, leading to



attempts to block such reforns. Opposition
to the reduction of credit subsidies could
also arise from farmer organizations.
From a more general point of view, since
the macroeconomic situation continues to
be very fragile, any major departures from
the careful fiscal and monetary policies of
recent years could render the medium
term prospects unviable, thus vitiating the
rationale for continued balance of payments
support.
Benefits:                      The proposed reforms in the agricultu.al
importation regime, food subsidies, agricul-
tural credit and marketing of cocoa and
citrus would a'1 lead to greater efficiency
in resource allocation. The continuation of
the public divestment program would improve
the economic use of valuable assets. Reforms
in the area of pesticides use would protect
the health of consumers while assisting in
expanding agricultural exports. The impact
of the reforms on the poor is expected to be
mostly positive.
Financing Plan:                The loan vould be cofininced by O!CF/Japan,
and the KfW (Federal Republic of Germany).
The funds provided by these donors would also
be for the financing of general imports, with
certain restrictions. The financing plan
would be as follows:
World Bank                     $ 25.0 million
OECP                           $ 25.0 million
KfW a/                         S  5.0 million
Total                $ 55.0 million
a/ Ten million marks



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR
AN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.       I submit the following report and recounendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$25.0 million for an Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation. The loan would have a term of 17 years including
five years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate. The loan
would be cofinanced by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
(US$25.0 million), and the Federal Republic of Germany's flW (DM 10.0
million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Economic Deterioration in the 19709
2.       Jamaica's overall economic performance deteriorated significantly
from the early 19709 to 1980. From 1974 to 1980, there was a cumulative
decline in real GDP of about 212 (31S in per capita terms). This was due
in part to external shocks (oil price increases and declining tourist
visitors); however, the policy responses of the Government aggravated the
situation. In particular, appropriate exchange rate adjustments were not
made and the fiscal situation was allowed to deteriorate. The Government
elected in 1972 focused on increasing employment, maintaining real wages,
improving income distribution and expanding the scope of social services.
There was increasing state intervention in the economy to achieve these
goals. Direct public ownership increased, as did public employment;
corporate tax rates were increased; and a wide range of price and foreign
trade controls were introduced. Governmuent spending expanded sharply. The
overall fiscal deficit increased from 52 of GDP in 1972 to 24? by 1976, and
domestic credit to the public sector expanded five fold over the same
period. The bulk of this increased spending was in non-investment
activities. Public investment rose from almost 3? to over 42 of GDP, but
by 1976 the private investment rate had declined to only half that of 1973.
Domestic relative prices diverged from international prices and the
structure of incentives became increasingly biased towards the production
of non-tradable goods and services, rather than production for exports.
Economic Stabilization and Adiustment in the 1980s
3.       Following the deep and sustained contraction in the seventies, the
economy required significant stabilization and adjustment to restore
growth. To this end, starting in 1981, the Government entered into a



-2-
series of arrangements with the IMF and received from the Bank three
structural adjustment loans (Loan 2105-JM, approved in March 1982; Loan
2315-JM, approved in June 1983; and Loan 2478-JM, approved in November
3984) and two sector adjustment loans (Trade and Finance, Loan 2848-JM,
arproved in June 1987; and Public Enterprise, Loan 2849-JM, also approved
in June 1987). Performance under all five adjustment loans has been
generally satisfactory. The broad thrust of this adjustment program has
been to rationalize the economy-wide incentive system, reduce the size of
the public sector in the economy, substantially cut the fiscal deficit and
restore longer term viability to the balance of payments.
4.       Implementation of these adjustment goals has encompassed a variety
of macroeconomic reforms (agriculture-specific reforms implemented under
previous adjustment operations are detailed in Annex IV and summarized in
paras. 22 to 29 below)s
(a)  Trade and the Foreign Exchange Regime. The foreign exchange
allocation mechanism evolved from a tightly controlled,
restrictive, fixed-rate regime, to a flexibly managed auction
system. These changes were accompanied by devaluation of the
Jamaican dollar, resulting in a depreciation in real effective
terms of about 40Z between 1983 and 1985. In addition, the rigid
import licensing system covering all imports has been dismantled,
with the exception oft 2i) those items solely imported by the
state owned Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation (JCTC);
(ii) some agricultural items with importation rebtricted to
protect small farmers; and (iii) those with secutrity or public
health implications. It is estimated that present non-tariff
protection covers about 8.5Z of total goods production in Jamaica.
Finally, in April 1987, the Govornment initiated a tariff reform
program designed to reduce the average level and dispersion of
tariffs.
(b) Tax Reforms. In 1983, the Goverument embarked upon a
comprehensive tax reform program. In January 1986, a revised
personal income tax system was introduced, together with a revised
property tax system in July 1986 and a revised corporate tax
system in January 1987. These reforms represent a substantial
improvement over previous systems. The personal tax reforms have
raised the initial tax threshold and all income above this level
is taxed at r flat rate of 33.3£. This reform has achiev . four
main objectives: (a) the very poor are relieved of any income tax
burden; (b) the incentives to work are increased by the reduction
of the high marginal tax rates previously applied; (c) the tax
base is broadened by eliminating tax exempt income; and (d) the
tax administration has been greatly simplified. The corporate tax
revision reduced the rate to 33.3Z (from 45Z), and adjusted
investment and depreciation allowances. The Government is now
developing a unified system of indirect taxation (the General
Consumption Tax), to replace a variety of existing indirect taxes.
(c) Monetary and Financial Policies. Throughout most of the 19709 and
early 19809, monetary and financial sector policies were
subordinated to the need to finance large public sector deficits.
As a result, the financial sector's ability to efficiently



- 3 -
mobilize and allocate savings was hampered. The Government has
sought to correct these impediments to efficient financial
intermediation and to restore to the Central Bank ('ank of
Jamaica, BOJ) a greater degree of autonomy in monetary policy. In
Match 1986, the Government approved a revision in the banking
legislation that clarified the Central Bank's mandate and
strengthened its supervisory functions. In particular, a greater
emphasis on base money management was adopted, utilizing to a
larger extent open market operations and rediscounting activities.
At the same time, the liquid asset ratio reserve requirement has
been steadily reduced from 48Z (March 1986) to 20Z.
(d)  Fiscal Polic1.  A major aim within the structural adjustment
program has been to improve the financial performance of the
public sector and to increase public savings. Towards this end,
as noted above, the tax system has been thoroughly overhauled. In
addition, a program to moderate the growth in current expenditures
of the Government has been ongoing over the past five years, and
there were substantial labor reductions in FY84 (i.e., from April
1, 1984, to March 31, 1985) and FY85. Coupled with this, the
Government has initiated, with Bank assistance, an Administrative
Reform Program (ARP). A major component of this program has been
a ptased introduction of performance budgeting and improved
financial management systems, and a serious effort has been made
to improve the quality of the preparation, execution and
monitoring of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). With
regard to the public enterprises, a program of restructuring and
divestment has been in place for several years. Furthermore,
there have been substantial price and tariff adjustments for all
utility services over the last four fiscal years.
5.       From 1981 to 1985, despite massive external capital inflows and a
virtual doubling of external debt, overall growth performance was
disappointing, with real GDP in 1985 only 0.52 higher than in 1980. This
overall picture, however, was strongly influenced by a sharp decline in
bauxitelalumina exports due to changing world market conditions. The
current account deficit of the balance of payments ranged from about 92 to
202 of GDP. As with overall growth performance, Jamaica's progress towards
a restoration of balance of payments viability was adversely affected by
the losses in bauxite and alumina exports. However, tourism receipts grew
from US$242 million in 1981 to US$435 million in 1985; and non-traditional
exports, which include manufacturing, rose from US$115 million to US$161
million in the same period. Furthermore, the substantial devaluations of
the Jamaican dollar in 1984 and 1985 impacted strongly on imports, such
that total imports in 1985 were about 862 of the level in 1980. Throughout
the period FY80 to PY85, the overall public sector deficit ranged from
about 142 to about 22? of GDP. Central Government expenditures for the
first four years of the adjustment program (FY81 to FY85) were consistently
above 40? of GDP, despite the efforts of various IMP stabilization
programs.
6.       Tn the Fall of 1985, a tripartite economic mission (Bank, DMP, and
USAID) visited Jamaica to review progress of the structural adjustment
program. Its main conclusions were that Jamaica could achieve a
sustainable growth path if: (a) it sustained the structural reforms



- 4 -
already in place and added some new oness and (b) it received significant
concessional capital inflows for several years. More specifically, the
tripartite mission concluded that the structural transformations had to go
in two directions: (a) to continue decreasing the size of the public
sector; and (b) to increase production of tradable goods and services vis a
vis nontradables. The tripartite mission also considered that even under
the best conceivable circumstances, only modest growth in Jamaica's output,
employment and consumption could be expected in the medium term and that
the economic situation would deteriorate further in the absence of
additional policy reforms. Between June and December 1986, an intense
policy dialogue was carried out between the GOJ and the IMF and the Bank
seeking an agreement on the policy reform framework. Agreement was finally
reached culminating in a new IMF Stand-By Arrangement approved in March
1987. Also in 1987, the Government prepared, with Bank assistance, a
Medium-Term Economic Frammwork Program (MT?P) which set out the policy
reform agenda for the next three years and the necessary external
financing.
Recent Economic Performance
7.       In the latter part of the 1980s, an economic turnaround began,
aided by vastly improved terms of trade (brought forth by the fall in oil
import prices and sustained high increases in export prices for alumina,
sugar and bananas) and by the liberalized policy environment and the
tighter fiscal and monetary stance. Between 1986-88, economic growth
averaged 32 per year, the overall public sector deficit equalled 7? of GDP,
inflation was around 92 and the external current account deficit equalled
6Z of GDP. Indeed, were it not for the dislocation caused by the major
hurricane, Gilbert, in September 1988, Jamaica's performance would have
been better still. especially in terms of economic growth, and reduction of
the public sector deficit.
8.       Due to the hurricane, however, economic growth in PY88 was only
1.92, well below the 4.7Z expected prior to the hurricane and lower even
than the post-hurricane revised forecast of 3Z. The overall public sector
deficit in FY88 was similarly disappointing, amounting to around J$2,475
million (13? of GDP), compared to about J$360 million (22 of GDP)
programmed before the hurricane and J$1,595 million (9Z of GDP) to which it
was revised in the aftermath of the hurricane. Virtually all of the
deficit over and above the revised amount was due to the operations of the
JCTC, the National Water Commission (NWC), and the electricity company (the
Jamaica Public Service Company, JPSCO).
9.       Even before the hurricane, the domestic prices of agricultural
products imported by the JCTC had not been adjusted in line with rising
Import prices in 1988. Then, immediately following the hurricane, the
JCTC's import and sales volumes were increased substantially, in particular
building materials. The NWC and the JPSCO had their billing and collection
disrupted severely, and, in addition, the insurance coverage of JPSCO
turned out to be less comprehensive than had been thought.
10.      On the external front in FY88, reinsurance inflows (of about
US$415 mIllion, equivalent to 122 of GDP) related to hurricane damage
staved off a major deterioration of the current account balance. Excluding



- 5 -
grants, the current account deficit amounted to US$220 million (about 6.51
of GDP), as against US$460 million (142 of GDP) estimated soon after the
burricane. On the capital account, the major feature was a substantially
lower actual net inflow (US$292 million, including grants), compared to the
inflow expected (US$640 million, including grants) on the basis of the
additional, hurricane-related aid which had beev sought. As a result, net
lnternational reserves in FY88 increased by less than half the amount
targeteds that is, by US$72 million, instead of US$180 million. The weak
balance of payments in FY88, along with the year's large fiscal deficit, of
which nearly 902 was closed with domestic financing, became critical in
shaping Jamaica's financial program and situation in FY89.
Financial Program in FY89
11.      At the onset of FY89, the Government's main concern was to rectify
the financial imbalances which had arisen in the preceding year. To that
end, it prepared very tight financial and credit programs for the year,
involving, as principal targets: (a) a reduction of the overall public
sector deficit, from 132 to 6.52 of GDP; (b) a sharp slowdewn in the growth
of broad money, from 332 to 182; (c) a slower growth of bank credit to the
private sector --222 compared to 302 in the previous year; (d) containment
of the external current account deficit, excluding grants, at around 62 of
GDP; and (e) an improvement in net international reserves of US$195
million.
12.      Measures intended to reduce the public sector deficit included
increased taxes and charges (specifically, the payroll tax for education,
airport departure fee and the tax on telephone calls); further divestment
of government holdings (in teleconmunications and hotels); current and
capital expenditure cuts, the latter by longer phasing of hurricane
reconstruction; normalization of the water and electricity billing and
collections; and Increases (of up to 50) in the sales prices of basic
foods imported by the JCTC. Credit policy in FY89 was implemented with
strongly positive, largely market-determined real interest rates, and with
regular open market operations by the BOJ through the sale of preset
amounts of BOJ certificates of deposit. Finally, to ensure the targeted
improvement in the balance of payments for FY89, the Government undertook
to maintain Jamaica's competitiveness by observing a wage guideline and by
continuing, through October 1989, the foreign exchange auction system.
13.      Foreign exchange demand, twice as strong in the aftermath of
hurricane Gilbert, was expected to revert to the pre-hurricane level early
in FY89. Contrary to expectation, however, the demand remained strong, in
part owing to a large expansion of credit to the private sector. When
speculation had increased, especially in the second quarter of FY89, the
Government decided to institute a fixed exchange rate system for the rest
of the fiscal year. At the time this decision was made, the end of October
1989, the exchange rate was set at J$6.5 per US dollar; in February 1990,
the rate was depreciated further, to J$7.0 per US dollar, representing a
depreciation of 272 from the rate at the beginning of PY89 (J$5.5 per US
dollar).
14.      To safeguard the fiscal program of FY89, the depreciation of the
Jamican dollar was accompanied with another round of increases in prices



-6-
charged by the public sector. Monetary policy too was tightened further
with stricter credit ceilings and higher interest rates. Still, the
overall outcome for the year was mixed. While the fiscal and growth
performance improved over the preceding year, domestic inflation increased
and the balance of payments weakened. Preliminary data indicate the
following likely outturn in FY89s an overall public sector deficit equal to
72 of GDP (compared to 132 in PY88)s an external current account deficit
equal to 112 of GDP (6.52 in FY88); a decrease of US$95 million in net
international reserves (increase of US$72 million in FY88); and an
inflation rate of 162 (92 in FY88). Economic growth in FY89 has been
around 2.8Z (1.92 in nY88). The important sources of economic growth
during FY89 were export agriculture, especially bananas and coffee;
construction activities; and the services sector.
15.      In spite of progress achieved in recent years, the process of
Jamaica's economic recovery cannot be considered completed. Continued
commitment to the adjustment program and sound macroeconomic management to
sustain growth and a viable financial balance are still essential. The
economic outlook and policy agenda are discuassed further in Chapter V.
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Hain Characteristics and Institutional Framework
16.      Contribution to GDP. Emnlo'vment and Resources.  The agricultural
sector contributed 6.12 to Jamaica's GDP in PY87. Agriculture, however,
accounts for about one-fourth of total employment. This implies a much
lower labor productivity in agriculture than in other sectors of the
economy. The agricultural labor force is also older. Data on number of
farms and land utilization from the 1978 Agricultural Census indicates that
in that year there were about 180,000 farms with a total area of about 1.3
million acres (the total area of the country is 2.7 million acres). Of the
total number of farms, about 282 were under one acre and a further 492 were
between one and ten acres. All these small farms together accounted for
just 262 of the total farm area. At the other extreme of the
distribution, 2V5 farms of 500 acres and over accounted for 442 of the
total farm area. About 360,000 acres of farmland are highly fertile
(mostly coastal) plains that can be utilized for agriculture without
limitations. The remaining farmland is on slopes of varying degrees and
its agricultural uses consistent with proper soil management are more
restricted. Jamaica's tropical maritime climate is generally favorable for
agriculture. However, climatic problems include unpredictably long dry
seasons, flooding, tropical storms and hurricanes. Water resources are
sufficient in the aggregate but there are problems with geographic
distribution relative to areas of major demand, and highly variable stream
flows.
17.      Structure of Production and Trade.  Sugar cane is the largest
single crop in terms of its contribution to agricultural GDP, accounting
for about 112 in FY87. In the same year, main export crops other than
sugar accounted for 7.92 of agricultural GDP; root crops, 20.62; fruits,
vegetables and other miscellaneous crops for domestic consumption, 32.32;



livestock, 19.5X; forestry, 21; and fishing, 6.6X. Traditional
agricultural exports and their FOB value in FY88 were as followst sugar,
US$88.6 milliont bananas, US$15.7 million; coffee, US$9.2 millions pimento,
US$5.1 million; cocoa, US$4.0 million; and citrus, US$4.6 million. Non-
traditional agricultural exports (vegetables, tubers, fruits and
ornamentals) amounted to US$17 million. Thus total agricultural exports in
FY88 were US$144 million, or 172 of total merchandise exports. Imports of
food in the same year were US$172 million. The main imported foodstuffs
are wheat and wheat flour, maize, rice, soybeans, meat, fish and dairy
products.
18.      Role of the Public Sector.  The influence of the Government on the
agricultural sector is exercised in several ways. First, macroeconomic
policies affecting the exchange rate, the trade regime, market interest
rates and taxation have a pervasive influence on resource allocation in
agriculture. Secondly, about 800,000 acres of land are Government-owned,
under a variety of categoriest bauxite lands, agricultural lands leased to
farmers on a long-term basis, land in Government.enterprises (see below),
lands in the process of being sold to small farmers, natural forests, etc.
Third, the Government directly owns and operates some twenty agricultural
and agroindustrial enterprises in sugar, bananas, rice, livestock,
forestry, aquaculture, orchard crops, rum and other products, with a
combined gross asset book value of about USS 150 million. Fourth, a
variety of public and semi-public institutions described in the following
paragraph influence specific aspects of the sector.
19.      Agricultural Public Institutions.  In what follows, a brief
description of the roles of the main agricultural institutions is given.
(a) Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). With an authorized staff of about
2,600, the MOA is by far the largest and most important agency in
the sector. NQA's main functions include contributing to policy-
making; coordinating the preparation and implementation of the
PSIP in agriculture; research; extension services; statistics;
crop protection; and natural resource surveying and conservation.
MOA also has a direct role in the exporting of pimento, and
oversees the operations of other Export Marketing Organizations
(see (f) below);
(b)  Agro-21lAgricultural Development Corporation.  Agro-21 is a
statutory agency created in 1983 to promote investment and the
transfer of technology for the production of non-traditional
exports. In this regard it has undertaken a number of feasibility
studies for new crops and provided technical assistance to many
private local and foreign investors. It has also implemented some
closed-end programs, including the divestment by long-term leasing
of about 30,000 acres of Government land. Under the present
Administration, Agro-21 has become a subsidiary of the
Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a holding company
which also controls several Government-owned agricultural and
agroindustrial enterprises previously under the NIBJ (see (d)
below);
(c) Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB). The Government is not involved in
extending direct loans to farmers. Such direct lending was



a -
terminated in 1982, when the ACB was established. The ACB is a
second-tier financial institution, which channels funds to
agriculture from external assistance agencies through the
rediscounting of loans extended to farmers by the commercial banks
and a network of 42 affiliated People's Community Banks (PCBs);
(d) National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ). The NIBJ was
established in 1984 to act as a holding company for Government
enterprises, including those in the agricultural and
agroindustrial sectors. As such '6t monitors the performance of
the enterprises, provides accounting and auditing support, and
initial management to new investments. In recent years it has
also been involved in implementing the Government's enterprise
divestment program;
(e)  Jamaica Promotions Ltd.(JAMPRO).  This statutory agency was
established in 1988 through the merger of three previous agencies
to be responsible for promotion of foreign direct investment in
all sectors, the promotion of exports, and industrial and
commercial training. These functions were all present in the
component agenciea, but the merger will permit the attainment of
some economies of scale;
(f)  Export Marketing OrRanizations (EHOs).  This generic term refers
to six entities that play a central role in the marketing of
traditional agricultural exports, namelys the Coffee Industry
Board (CIB); the Cocoa Industry Board (ColB)s the MOA's Export
Division (for pimento exports); the Citrus Growers Association
(CGA); the Banana Export Company (BECO); and the Jamaica Cane
Products Sales Ltd. (for sugar exports). Besides their role in
export marketing, the EMOs provide some research, extension and
other services to their client farmers; and
(g) Other Miscellaneous Institutions. Also important in the
agricultural sector are: the Sugar Industry Authority (SIA), which
plays a role in the importation and domestic marketing of sugar
and in the regulation of the industry generally; the Jamaica
Agricultural Development Foundation (JADF), which operates as a
venture capital institution and a source of private research
funding; the National Irrigation Commission (NIC), created in 1986
as a statutory authority in order to absorb the operation of all
public irrigation systems; and the JCTC, which acts as a monopoly
importer for a number of basic foodstuffs and a range of other
products.
20.      Agricultural Policy Formulation. The MOA, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Development, Production and Planning, the ACB, the
BOJ and the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) all play a role in the
formulation of policies for the agricultural sector under the present
Administration. Coordination is effected by the PIOJ.
21.      The Public Sector Investment Program in Agriculture.  The MOA's
budget represents the bulk of total Government expenditure in agriculture.
In FY87, it amounted to J$ 232 million (US$42.2 million, or abouc 3.SZ of
total Government expenditure) of which about one-third was for recurrent



- 9 -
and two-thirds for investment expenses. Most investment expenses (811)
were associated with projects of bilateral and multilateral agencies. A
review of the Government's PSIP for FY88 to PY90 was conducted by the Bank
in 1987 as part of the work on the HTFP. The PSIP agreed at that time was
fully consistent with the macroeconomic objectives, sectoral strategies and
policies, and overall financing program described in the NTFP. Actual PSIP
in agriculture in FY88 and FY89 was in conformity with the agreed PSIP. A
new PSIP review was conducted by the Bank towards the end of 1989, covering
FYs90-92. The Government's PSIP for that period is in line with the
policies included in the revised MTFP currently under preparation. In its
final form, it will be made consistent with the macroeconomic objectives,
sectoral strategies and policies, and overall financing program specified
in the revised MTFP.
Performance in the 1970s
22.      The agricultural sector in Jamaica was the main engine of economic
growth for the country prior to the Second World War. Growth of a variety
of export crops (sugar, bananAs, citrus, cocoa and spices) made a
significant contribution to national and rural development. Since the late
fifties and early sixties, however, the sector's contribution to GDP has
dropped. It fell from between 152 and 171 in the early sixties to about
61 in FY87. Over the decade of the seventies, sugar exports (by volume)
declined by an annual average of about 81, banana exports declined by an
annual average of 121 and citrus exports declined by an annual average of
22. There is little doubt that the macroecoixmic and microeconomic
policies and institutional framework of the agricultural sector were
largely inappropriate in the 1970s for its development.
23.      Throughout that decade, there was a profound shift in the pattern
of agricultural production away from export crops towards crops produced
for domestic consumption. Export agricultural production contracted at 41
per annum, whereas domestic agriculture grew at almost 41 per annum. The
reasons for this are varied but clear. There was an intra sectoral shift
in prices in favor of domestic agriculture, as a result of an explicit
import substitution policy. For much of the period, the exchange rate was
overvalued, resulting in an implicit tax on export agriculture. In
addition, increasing regulation of farmgate export crop prices through
public sector marketing entities resulted in further implicit taxation and
a lowering of returns to the farmer. Domestic crops were less regulated
and in addition this subsector enjoyed increasing tariff and non-tariff
trade protection. In this policy environment, Jamaican agriculture did not
take advantage of available technology, with the result that yields have
remained at very low levels by international standards. This has made the
country increasingly less competitive in world markets, particularly for
those export crops (sugar, bananas, citrus, cocoa) that have experienced a
sustained downward trend in world market prices.
Policy Reforms in the 1980.
24.     It was apparent by 1980 that significant policy change and
adjustment were necessary to improve the performance of agriculture. Since
that year, the Government has gradually evolved a comprehensive strategy
for rehabilitation of the sector. In broad terms, the goals have been to



- 10 -
increase rural incomes and employment, reduce the magnitude of the rural to
urban migration flows and decrease the public sector's direct involvement
in the sector. In addition, there has been an effort to steer the sector
towards increased export earnings through assistance to the development of
production of non-traditional export crops and rehabilitation of production
of traditional export crops.
25.      The macroeconomic reforms undertaken since 1980 (real devaluation
of the exchange rate, dismantlement of the import licensing system,
reduction in bureaucratic controls on foreign exchange and investment, and
tax reform and fiscal deficit reduction) have undoubtedly been beneficial
to the sector. In addition, a number of policy and institutional reform
specifically related to agriculture were introduced (see Annex IV for a
detailed explanation of how these reforms related to previous adjustment
operations). A description of sector specific reforms follows.
26.      Land Use Policy. J% variety of issues in this area needed to be
addressed. Data on land use capability was poor, but has now been greatly
improved. A large number of small farmers occupied Government lands under
precarious tenancy conditions. In addition, there were large tracts of
Government land suitable for commercial farming lying idle. An inventory
of Government owned land was completed in 1982 and a program of divestment
initiated. A Government entity, Agro 21, vas established in 1983 to
support the development of non traditional crops and to lease out medium
and large scale plots for .ommercial agriculture. By 1988, about 30,000
acres had been leased. I'. addition, the Ministry of Agriculture has
instituted a program of sale of smaller lots for smaller scale farming. By
the end of 1988, 41,000 acres had been sold. Under another program started
in 1987, the Government will issue property titles to approximately 36,200
small farmers. These are lands that were either sold or leased on a long
term basis by the Government in the context of various programs over the
past several decades, but for which no formal titles were ever issued. In
the first two years of the program appre"imately 5,000 titles have been
issued.
27.      Environmental Policy.  The pattern of land use by small farmers in
hillside areas and illegal cutting of trees in Government forests are
causing widespread soil erosion and devegetation. This is having an
adverse impact on watersheds and increasing the severity of flooding.
Earlier Government efforts to control watershed degradation focused on soil
conservation schemes based on civil works, such as construction of
terraces. Results from these efforts have not been successful, though, and
a new strategy for improving land use in hillsides, fostering alternative
cropping patterns, is now being tested. The Government has also recently
announced the creation of a new statutory agency to coordinate programs and
policy reforms in the environmental protection area, including as a high
priority the protection of the country's watersheds. The new agency will
be known as the Natural Resources Conservation Authority and it will be a
decentralized agency of the Ministry of Development, Production and
Planning. The new agency's functions will includes (i) conducting studies
and formulating policy recommendations; (ii) formulating plans of action
and programs of public investment, and coordinating their implementation;
(iii) seeking funding; and (iv) setting up program evaluation mechanisms.
The Government has also been aware for some time of the environmental
problems caused by the improper use of chemical pesticides, and has
recently enacted a Pesticide Control Act.



- 11 -
28.      Export Marketing. Measures have been taken to Improve the
efficiency of the export marketing of coffee, cocoa, citrus and pimento
through the introduction of improved pricing formulae and a reduction in
the export monopoly powers of the corresponding regulatory bodies. In
addition, the sugar and banana industries have been subject to significant
restructuring and rationalization with good results.
29.      Sunvort Services.  A variety of institutional initiatives were
taken by the Government in the 1980s to support agricultural development.
The creation in 1983 of Agro 21 has already been mentioned. In 1986, a
National Irrigation Commission was created to absorb the operation of all
public irrigation systems. This Commission has recently prepared a new
tariff schedule that will increase the recovery of operation and
maintenance costs in public irrigation districts from less than 1OZ today
to 50Z by FY92. The phasing-in of them new tariff schedule has started in
FY89. Implementation of the new tariff schedule is a covenant of the Bank-
supported Second Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2850-JM).
30.      In 1982, the Government undertook a major reform of the credit
delivery system for agriculture. Prior to this reform, several public
agricultural credit institutions existed in the country with severe
management problems and heavy incidence of arrears and non-repayment. The
Government eliminated all these institutions and instead established the
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), which is a second tier financial
institution wholesaling credit to private financial intermediaries
(commercial banks and People's Community Banks, PCBs), which in turn lend
to farmers. Interest rate policies were also improved, with interest rates
on directed credit to agriculture becoming positive in real terms again in
1985.
31.      Despite some positive institutional reforms, the 1980s have seen a
weakening of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and its ability to provide
key support services to the agricultural sector. As wages in the public
sector were reduced in real terms because of the drive to reduce Government
expenditures, the MOA (and other ministries as well) lost many of their
best staff, and has had serious difficulties in replacing them. At the
same time, MOA saw its authorized staff complement reduced by 1,400 posts
(about 35Z of the total) in the second half of 1985. While most of the
eliminated posts were probably redundant, this reduction and the loss of
better qualified staff have left MOA in a state of disarray and with very
low staff morale. Recent reviews of the agricultural sector by PAO and
USAID have highlighted the need to strengthen MOA. Of special importance
would be a restructuring of research and extension, in order to assist
farmers to increase their low yields in existing crops and introduce new
crops with an export potential.  The new Administratior' has announced a
restructuring of public extension services, which would now be the
responsibility of a statutory semi-autonomous agency reporting to the
Minister of Agriculture, the Rural Agricultural Development Authority
(RADA). The restructuring of research services is also under
consideration. A plan to this effect has been developed by PAO.
32.     In addition, there is a pressing need for MOA to adopt more up-to-
date management tools. The functions of 1OA may at the same time need to
be streamlined, and some initiative should also be taken regarding staffing



- 12 -
difficulties for key positions in the ministry.   The first phase of the
Administrative Reform Program (ARP) supported by the Bank, which Is coming
to an end, assisted several other ministries in upgrading their managemeat
processes. The Government intends to make use of the planned second phase
of the ARP to extend a similar assistance to MOA. A project for Bank
financing is under preparation to support this second phase. As part of
this preparation, the Bank is assisting MOA in the formulation of a
Corporate Management Plan. The Plan would be a blueprint for redefining
the Ministry's objectives and functions and rationalizing its programs and
administrative and financial processes. Th3 ARP (second phase) would
assist in the carrying out of these reforms. In addition, consideration is
being given within the context of the preparation of the second phase of
the ARP to the possible design and implementation of a scheme (the Senior
Executive Scheme) to recruit and retain highly qualified professionals to
key Government positions, including some in MoA. These initiatives if
successfully implemented would go a long way ttwards strengthening MOA, the
key Government agency in the agricultural sector, and enhancing its
effectiveness in supporting agricultural development.
33.      Price Controls and Domestic Marketing.  Since 1980, a large number
of price controls have been eliminated, although some basic foodstuffs and
animal feeds continue to have their wholesale and retail prices set by
Government. In addition, the previous Administratior abolished the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC), which had regulatory functions in
the area of domestic marketing and actually hampered private marketing
processes. The present Administration has announced that it will revive
the AMC, as one of the enterprises under the ADC (para. 15(b)).  However,
the new AMC will only provide technical assistance and other services amed
at facilitating domestic trading of foodstuffs by private agents. It will
not be involved in direct trading, or have regulatory powers.
Sectoral Response
34.      Overall. the performance of the agricultural sector in response to
the array of policy adjustments noted above has been rather disappointing.
Agricultural GDP in constant prices in FY87 was only about 62 higher than
in FY83, and it declined by about 42 in FY88 as production of most crops
suffered as a result of that year's hurricane. The slow growth may be due
in part to the longer investmentiproduction cycles in agriculture,
especially for tree crops. However, there are encouraging signs of
dynamism in certain subsectors. In particular, the banana rehabilitation
effort has brought considerable success, and there has also been strong
growth in citrus and in some non traditional exports such as yams and cut
flowers. The sector is a major employer, and agricultural employment has
grown modestly since 1980 (0.45 annual average). However, value added per
worker in constant prices has not improved significantly.
Outlook and Future Reform Atenda
35.      Agriculture in Jamaica, while less important to the overall
economy than is typical in many developing countries, nevertheless has
substantial scope for improved performance. The proportion of the
population that is dependent upon agriculture for at least a portion of
their income is large, hence improvements in this sector would benefit a
large number, most of vhich are at the lower end of the income scale. As



- 13 -
the economy develops, other job opportunities will occur in other sectors
of the economy; however, the pace of this structural trtasformation is
uncertain.
36.      In the best of circumstances, it is difficult to provide an
accurate assessment of the medium term prospects for Jamaican agriculture
due to the myriad of factors, both international and domestic, that affect
growth. The 1988 hurricane has made this assessment even more uncertain.
Of all the productive sectors in Jamaica, agriculture has suffered the
greatest extent of damage, with probably three quarters of farm families
suffering some damage. Government estimates suggest that loss of farm
revenue in FY88 exceeded J$600 million, declining to J$380 million In FY
89, J$l10 million in FY90 and J$75 million in FY91. Loss of foreign
exchange earnings from agricultural exports are estimated at about US$110
million, the bulk of which will occur in the two years Immediately
following the hurricane. In addition, foreign exchange outlay on imported
food increased by some US$60 million in the six months imuediately
following the hurricane to make up for losses in domestic production. The
above estimates do not adequately portray the implications for the many
farm families whose normal source of income and food was decimated by the
storm. To mitigate the plight of these poorest families, the Government
has extended the coverage of the Food Stamp Program in rural areas
temporarily, until domestic food production recovers. In addition, to
support the reconstruction effort, the Government improved the credit terms
for funds from ACB with a special "reconstruction window' open for a period
of six months following the hurricane.
37.      The sector will undoubtedly recover from the adverse impact of the
hurricane. However, fulfillment of its longer term potential will depend
on the success of policy and institutional reforms. In some respects
Jamaican agriculture has been a neglected sector (e.g., weak technology
generation and transfer efforts), but in other respects the sector has
suffered from a plethora of ad hoc policy interventions designed to benefit
particular subsectors or groups. As a result, a variety of distortions in
incentives have developed in the sector. Future agricultural policy reform
should focus on the elimination of these distortions and on other measures
designed to increase producer incomes --albeit not at the expense of
exploiting consumers or accelerating environmental deterioration. The
agenda for continuing reform should include further rationalization of the
trade regime and the elimination of untargeted food subsidies; further
improvements in interest rate policy for directed agricultural credit and
other aspects of ACB's operations; deregulation of cocoa and citrus
marketing; continuing progress in the divestment and titling programs; and
a much greater and concerted effort on important environmental concerns
such as the use of chemical pesticides and watershed degradation. The
specific issues in these areas, and proposed measures, are explained in
Part III below. It should be noted that, in addition to the effects of the
above reforms, agricultural growth will also be crucially dependent on
macroeconomic policies concerning management of the exchange rate and of
fiscal and monetary variables, via the effects of these policies on
relative prices and market interest rates.
Bank Involvement in Agriculture
38.      Bank involvement in agriculture started in the 19709.  Completed



- 14 -
projects include two in agricultural credit, one in rural development, one
in forestry and a project for the rebabilitation of the sugar industry.
There are two ongoing investment projectst (i) the Export Crops Project
(Loan 2414-J3  for US$15 million), approved in 1984, which finances credit
for export-oriented agriculture, related technical assistance and some
export marketing infrastructure, and (Ui) the Second Sugar Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 2850-JM for US$34 million), approved in 1987, which finances
the rehabilitation of two sugar factories and related managerial
assistance, the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure and sugar
research. Both projects are proceeding in a generally satisfactory manner.
In addition, several adjustment loans made in the 19808 have included
agricultural aspects. An Agricultural Sector Policy Review was conducted
by PAOICP in 1986 and provided the initial analytical basis for the
proposed loan.
39.      Bank strategy for assistance to the agricultural sector in Jamaica
in recent years has mainly emphasized the rationalization of traditional
exports production and marketing. For coffee, cocoa, citrus, pimento and
bananas the main instrument used to this end were the SAL loans (see Annex
IV). For sugar, a specific investment project (the Second Sugar
Rehabilitation Project) was used as well. The Bank has also sought to
strengthen agricultural credit institutions (the ACB) and the drive to
increase non-traditional export crops; the vehicle used to this end was the
Export Crops Project. A fourth strategic goal in the sect-or has been to
speed up the divestment of Government land in order to improve its
utilization --a goal pursued through the SAL loans. Looking to the future,
Bank strategy will first of all seek to further the policy agenda spelt out
in para. 37 above, which aims at improving the incentive framework for
agricultural Investment and production. This would be pursued through the
proposed loan and our general policy dialogue. Secondly, priority in
investment lending would be given to the area of watershed management,
because of the potentially disastrous implications, for agriculture as well
as for the economy in general, of a continuation of present trends in
watershed degradation.
PART III - THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY THE PROPOSED LOAN
Rationale of the Proposed Loan
40.      The rationale of the proposed loan is to support a set of specific
agricultural policy and institutional reforms aimed at developing a sound
policy framework for agricultural development. The main focus of these
reforms is the improvement of the incentive framework in agriculture (para.
37), thus continuing and expanding Bank efforts in this area since 1980.
The loan also breaks new ground in addressing environmental problem of
pesticide use. The proposed reforms would enhance prospects for efficient
growth in the agricultural sector and in the economy as a whole. At the
same tine, the loan would provide needed balance of payments support in the
context of Jamaica's ongoing successful adjustment program as agreed In the
MTFP. The major sector issues and proposed actions that the loan would
support are described below (paras. 41 to 59). The policy matrix with the
proposed conditionality is given in Annex VI. The Government's
Agricultural Development Policy Statement is attached as Annex V.



- 15 -
Agricultural Pricing Policies
41.      Airicultural Import Retime.  Reforms already carried out by the
Government towards rationalizing the overall trade regime were mentioned in
para. 4(a). Within the agricultural sector, there are presently 32 import
positions subject to licensing, allegedly because of small farmer
protection. These positions comprise a variety of fresh vegetables, such
as tomatoes, onions, lettuce, carrots, string beans, and sweet peppers, and
processed foods using these vegetables as raw materials. Although no
comprehensive data on domestic versus border prices are available, it is
known that for most of these products the existence of quantitative import
restrictions has resulted in very high levels of implicit nominal
protection. As a first step, these quantitative restrictions should be
replaced by equivalent explicit nominal protection through tariffs (custom
duties and stamp duties). Nominal protection should then be reduced in
line with similar reforms of the overall trade regime. A second list of
agricultural items which needs attention is that of products subject to
reference prices and protective stamp duties. This list includes most
meats, animal feeds, and a variety of fresh fruits and their processed
(agroindustrial) products. The combination of reference prices (on which
tariffs are calculated) and protective stamp duties results in very high
levels of nominal protection for many of these products. Moreover, the use
of reference prices reduces the transparency of the structure of nominal
protection and is in itself undesirable. Reference prices should be
eliminated as a first step, followed by a reduction over time of high
levels of nominal protection. It should be noted that, although no
disaggregated data on value of production is readily available, the
products in the two lists mentioned above (which are detailed in Annex VII)
comprise the bulk of the agricultural production for the domestic market.
Thus the present agricultural importation regime strongly discriminates
against exports, biasing the allocation of land and other resources within
agriculture in favor of production for the domestic market.
42.      The discussion in the previous paragraph was cast in terms of
nominal protection. No estimates of effective protection of agricultural
or agroindustrial products are available. However, it is well known that
for agricultural products the pattern of effective protection usually does
not differ much from that of nominal protection, because intermediate
inputs are usually a fairly small portion of total production costs.
Moreover, in the case of Jamaica, domestic prices of intermediate inputs
such as agricultural tools, machinery and agrochemicals other than
fertilizers are not too much above import parity prices, since import
duties for these items are fairly low (in the range of 52-152) and there
are no quantitative restrictions (except for certain types of tractors
under JCTC import monopoly) or reference prices applied to their
importation. The bulk of fertilizers are donated by CIDAfCanada through
JCTC and are priced somewhat below import parity. The only major
agricultural intermediate inputs where domestic prices are much higher than
import parity prices are working vehicles such as pick-up trucks, which are
subject to quantitative import restrictions, and animal feeds, which are
subject to high import duties. Thus in general the agricultural products
enjoying high nominal protection also enjoy high effective protection,
perhaps with the exception of products such as poultry for which animal
feed is an important input.



- 16 -
43.      Other Government Interventions in Agricultural Pricing.  The main
type of Government intervention in domestic relative price formation in
agriculture and other tradeable sectors is that embodied in the trade
regime. The issues in this area have already been discussed in the
previous paragraph. Additionally, Government intervention in agricultural
pricing has been exercised through: (i) the operations of the JCTC; and
(ii) wholesale and retail price controls.
(a) Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation's Oierations. The JCTC has
an import monopoly over a range of commodities. It does not
retail those commodities itself, but sells them to distributors.
Several pricing issues arise. First, to the extent that JCTC
sells a given commodity at a price which is either lower (a
c bsidized price) or higher (a price that includes an implicit
tax? than the full-cost price that would result from adding JCTC's
administrative costs per unit of sales of the commodity in
question to the commodity's CIF price, JCTC introduces distortions
in domestic relative prices of that commodity. In recent years
JCTC has imported and sold corn, wheat, skizmmed milk powder and
other minor food items at subsidized prices that have been about
20-40Z lower than the corresponding full-cost prices. These
untargeted food subsidies are collectively known as the
Generalized Food Subsidies (GFS) program. Such pricing practices
by JCTC discourage domestic production of these items. This
effect it not very important for wheat and corn, which cannot be
produced economically in any significant quantities, but may be
Important for milk. Moreover, domestic production of non-traded
foodstuffs would also be depressed by JCTC's sales of subsidized
imported foodstuffs. The subsidies are financed in part by
implicit taxes on other commodities handled by JCTC (e.g.,
automobiles), and mostly by a transfer from the Jamaica Public
Services Company (JPSCo) out of the proceeds of a tax on
electricity consumption. JCTC's Import monopoly rights also raise
the possibility of the formation of rents in the distribution and
processing chain of JCTC's commodities (if price controls are not
effective; see (b) below), or alternatively of non-price rationing
of supply. One of the two situations would occur if JCTC
'undersupplied" the market, i.e., if quantities made available to
distributors are less thar. those that would satisfy demand at a
retail price equal to the price at which JCTC sells to
distributors plus normal margins at the distributor, processor,
wholesaler and retailer levels. There have also been some
instances in which food products under JCTC import monopoly have
not been available at all for periods of time.
(b) Vholesale/Retail Price Controls. Price controls in Jamaica have
existed since the 1940s, when the legislation enabling their
introduction Was passed. Presently there are only twenty items
subject to price control, and they are all agricultural outputs or
inputs. Two types of controls are in existence. First, there are
a number of foodstuffs together with animal feed which have their
actual wholesale and retail prices set by Government. These are
all either items sold by JCTC at subsidized prices, or items
produced locally using such subsidized items as inputs. In these



- 17 -
cases the purpose of the price controls is to ensure that the
subsidies are passed on to consumers. The second type of price
control is that in which the Governmant sets the maximum
percentage margins that can be charged by wholesalers and
retailers, but not the actual prices. Several manual agricultural
implements (cutlasses, spades, etc.) are in this category. If the
controls were effective, the markets for the implements themselves
would still clear, but not so the markets for the corresponding
distribution services. Thus the controls tend to make some
farmers worse off by artificially reducing the level of
distribution services available to them.
44.      ProDosed Reform Prosram.  Reforms in the area of agricultural
pricing policies would aim to giving greater transparency and simplicity to
the import regime for agricultural products, achieving a gradual reduction
of excessive levels of protection for these products, and, in the case of
those foodstuffs solely imported by the JCTC, improving JCTC's pricing
practices.
(a) Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions and Reference Prices.
Subsequent to loan negotiations, the Government eliminated all
quantitative import restrictions for the protection of small
farmers and the use of reference prices for agricultural and
agroindustrial imports. At the same time, it introduced a new
schedule of custom and stamp duties for these products. Such new
import tariffs provide a level of nominal protection approximately
equal to that prevailing in the previous regime, i.e., before the
elimination of quantitative import restrictions and reference
prices. The list of products targeted, previous import regime,
new tariff rates, expected tariffs by second tranche (see (b)
below) and number of years to reach the level of the Common
External Tariffs (see (b) below) are detailed in Annex VII;
(b) Reduction of Import Tariffs. The Government has adopted, together
with the introduction of the new tariffs, a program of phased
reductions of these tariffs in order to reach over a period of
time the levels of the corresponding CARICOM's Comwon External
Tariffs (these tariffs, which are the same as the custom duties,
are being revised, but preliminary proposals are that they would
not exceed 452). The period of time for the phasing down of the
tariffs would be five years for most products. However, for
animal feed products it would be three years, and for a few
selected crops produced by large numbers of small farmers, it
would be seven years. Before second tranche release, the
Government would put into effect the first step of the planned
annual reductions of import tariffs for the targeted products.
Tariffs would initially be reduced from around 1501 for most items
to no more than 1002 (combined custom and stamp duties) in this
first round of reductions. Therefter tariff reductions would
follow a linear pattern until the level of the Common External
Tariffs is reached; and
(c) Reforms in JCTC Pricint Policies. As pointed out in para. 43(a)
above, JCTC's pricing policies for its imported foodstuffs have
been distortionary. Moreover, the ¢FS has been an inefficient



- 18 -
vehicle for subsidizing food consumption of the poor, as most of
the benefits of the program are captured by the nonpoor. The
Government has announced that, in order to scale down the ¢PS
program, it will completely phase out the existing transfer to
JCTC over the next two fiscal years (FY90 and FY91). To this
effect, it introduced large price increases for JCTC-imported
foodstuffs at the beginning of FY89, thus preventing what would
have been a major increase in the tctal fiscal cost of the program
(in view of recent increases in international prices), and is
committed to keeping the transfer to JCTC at no more than J$ 130
million in FY90 (or about one-half of the amount of the transfer
in FY89). Also, in order to improve fiscal transparency, as of
FY90 the transfer from JPSCo to JCTC would be discontinued and
replaced by an explicit transfer from the Central Government
budget. Vhile the GFS program is being scaled dwtn, the
Government, with Bank assistance, will take steps towards
strengthening its targeted programs of food subsidization (see
para. 61 below).
45.      Once the external transfer to JCTC is fully phased out, the scope
for JCTC subsidization of foodstuffs would be greatly reduced, as such
subsidies would then have to be financed entirely from profits on the
importation of other items under JCTC monopoly (e.g., automobiles).  Thus
pricing of foodstuffs by JCTC would have to become much closer to full cost
pricing.
46.      The above changes in JCTC's operations should be considered as
first steps in the direction of rectifying present policies associated with
that agency. Further trade liberalization in terms of reducing JCTC's
import monopoly powers would be addressed in the context of the proposed
Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (para. 60 below).
Agricultural Credit Policies
47.      Prior to 1982, several public agricultural credit institutions and
programs existed in the country, lending to farmers at strongly negative
real interest rates. These institutions had severe management problems and
heavy past due loan portfolios. In 1982, the Government stopped making
loans directly to farmers and established the Agrivultural Credit Bank
(ACB), a second-tier financial institution whose function is to wholesale
agricultural credit to private financial intermediaries (coimercial banks
and People's Community Banks, PCBs), which in turn lend to farmers. The
ACB finances itself with loans from international agencies. This reform
was to a large extent successful in rationalizing the provision of directed
agricultural credit. interest rate policy for directed credit has also
improved, as present lending rates on ACB-rediscounted loans have been
positive in real terms in recent years. For lending to small farmers, the
ACB has accredited 42 PCBs from the existing 115 (the PCBs are small rural
banks specializing in lending for agriculture on a very small scale). The
ACB provides its affiliated PCBs with credit for onlending, supervises
their operations and offers technical support for their management.
Directed (AUB) credit through PCBs and coamercial banks represented about
35-402 of total institutional credit to agriculture in recent years. The
remaining institutional credit to agriculture was provided by commercial
banks and other financial institutions using their own resources, at
market-determined rates.



- 19 -
48.      In spite of the progress achieved in rationalizing directed
agricultural credit, several important issues remains
(a)  Interest Rate Structure.  The ACB currently lends to commercial
banks at an interest rate of 122 p.a., and commercial banks onlend
to medium-sized and large farmers (i.e., those with more than 25
acres of land) at 152. The onlending rate was until recently
clearly positive in real terms, and about ten percentage points
lover than the market interest rates charged by commercial banks
in operations financed out of their own funds. In recent months,
as both the rate of inflation and market interest rates have gone
up, the onlending rate is no longer clearly positive, and the
differential relative to market lending rates has widened to about
15 percentage points. For PCB9, which can only lend to small
farmers with up to 25 acres of gross land, the ACB lends at 72 and
the onlending rate is 112. These large differentials between
onlending interest rates on ACB-rediscounted loana and market
rates could ree4lt in misallocation of investment resources, as
the subsidized rates would allow investors to carry out estra-
marginal investments which would not otherwise be carried out. In
those cases in which the subsidized loans finance intra-marginal
investments, on the other hand, there is no resource misallocation
but the subsidized loans substitute for loans that would have been
granted at market interest rates, thus generating rents for the
recipients of subsidized loans.
(b) PCB Arrears. Arrears of farmers with PCBEs were about 162 of the
PCBs' outstanding loan portfolio as of the end of March 1988.
Although this figure is a considerable improvement over the 1984
corresponding figure of 4O0, it is still indicative of a serious
arrears problem. Moreover, the problem is shown to be
prospectively more serious when arrears are looked at as a
percentage of amounts due in a given period rather than in
relation to the outstanding portfolio. There are no aggregate
data showing the amount of arrears of farmers with PCBE as a
percentage of the amounts due in any given period, but the arrears
of PCBEs with the ACB as a percentage of the amounts due by PCBs
were almost 70? at the end of March 1988. Due to the improved
collection efforts of the ACB in 1988, which included the
suspension of disbursements to several PCBs, these arrears had
been reduced to 31.5Z by the end of September 1988. The arrears
situation needs to be closely monitored by the ACB, in order to
prevent the ACB-PCBEs credit infrastructure from becoming a chamnel
for the provision of unintended grants from the Government to
farmers. The financial integrity of the ACB could also be
seriously threatened.
(c)  Ranxe of ACB's Financial Intermediaries.  Under present ACB
policies, ACB funds for small farmers (i.e., those with up to 25
acres) at the preferential interest rate of 112 are available only
through its affiliated PC8s. Commercial banks may lend to these
farmers at the 14Z rate, but do not presently do it. However, if
com ercial banks were permitted to lend to small farmers on the
same terms as PC8s, including the larger margin for the banks,



- 20 -
this would provide an incentive for commercial banks to make such
loans. There are no statutory constraints, nor a valid reason, to
prevent financial institutions other than PCBs from becoming
intermediaries of small farmer ACB lending on the same terms
granted to PCBs. The League of Credit Unions has recently
initiated discussions with ACB seeking to gain admission for its
members as financial intermediaries of ACB's small farmer loans.
If their application is accepted, however, a legal constraint
would have to be removed to ensure their participation: the
Cooperative Societies Act prevents credit unions from lending at
interest rates in excess of 12 per month. If the interest rate of
ACB small farmer loans rose above this level, credit unions would
be effectively barred from accessing ACB funds.
49.      Proposed Reform Program.  The Government would carry out the
following reforms to address the above issuess
(a) Interest Rate Structure. Subsequent to loan negotiations, the ACB
introduced the following terms for the loans it rediscountas (i)
for large and medium-sized farmers, defined as those with more
than 25 acres of gross land, the interest rate has been raised
from 142 to 152 (which is the rate currently charged by financial
intermediaries in industrial sector loans rediscounted with the
National Development Bank), and the maximum percentage of ACB
financing has been reduced from 80S to 602; and (1i) for small
farmers, defined as those with up to 25 acres of gross land, the
interest rate continues to be 11Z for the time being, and each
small farmer loan is now subject to a maximum of US$5,000
equivalent (US$14,500 equivalent before), with a maximum of
US$7,500 equivalent outstanding at any point in time for any given
borrower. Above these limits, small farmers could borrow
additional funds, rediscounted by the ACE, but with the same terms
applicable to medium and large farmers. The ACB would continue to
finance up to 802 of the total cost of any given small farmer
investment project.
As a condition of second tranche release, the ACB would introduce
and operate the following system for setting interest rates on the
loans it rediscountst (i) for medium and large farmers, the
interest rate would be set equal to the average yield of Treasury
Bills in the twelve months previous to the date in which the new
system goes into effect, and would be revised for new loans at the
end of every quarter thereafter, following the same procedure; and
(ii) for small farmers, the interest rate would be set equal to
the average yield of Treasury Bills in the twelve months previous
to the date in which the new system goes into effect, minus seven
points, and would be revised for new loans at the end of every
quarter thereafter, following the same procedure.
(b) PCB Arrears. The ACB has introduced a system that calls for the
automatic suspension of disbursements to any PCB whose arrears of
more than 120 days represent more than 202 of the outstanding due
at the end of any given quarter.



- 21 -
(c) Ranie of ACB's Financial Intermediaries. Subsequent to loan
negotiations, the AC$ modified its Operating Manual in order to
allow access by any qualified commercial bank, credit union or
other suitable financial intermediaries to the rediscounting of
loans for small farmers on the same terms as those enjoyed by
PCBs. Prior to second tranche release, the Government would
submit to Parliament draft legislation reforming the Cooperative
Societies Act, in order to enable credit unions to set their
active and passive interest rates freely.
50.      Evaluation of Interest Rate Pronosals.  The above agreements for
interest rate reform in directed agricultural credit represent significant
progress. They establish the important principle of linking interest rates
in directed loans to farmers to a market indicator, and would substantially
reduce credit subsidies to medium and large farmers by narrowing the
differential between market lending rates and rates on directed credit
(historically, the yield of Treasury Bills has been about five points below
the average market lending rate of commercial banks for credit to firms),
and by also redacing the maximum percentage of ACB financing for any given
investment project. For small farmers, the lower maximum amount of each
directed loan and the total outstanding principal for any small farmer
would reduce substantially the allowable amount of credit subsidy per
farmer. By second tranche, the interest rate for medium and large farmers
will go up from 152 to the Treasury Bill rate, currently about 252, and
this would be significantly positive in real terms given that inflation in
FY89 was 162 and is projected to be around 132 in FY90 and to decline
thereafter to below 102. For small farmers, the interest rate would rise
from the present level of 112 to 182 if the Treasury Bill rate remains at
the current level. This rate would also be positive in real terms even
when compared to current inflation.
51.      Other Credit Reforms.  The reforms in the treatment of PCB arrears
and the widening of channels for ACB credit to small farmers are also
important. The introduction of an automatic system for the suspension of
ACB disbursements to PCBs with excessive arrears (para. 49(b)) will prompt
PCBs to carefully monitor their arrears situation, since they are almost
totally dependent on the ACB for their funding. The widening of channels
for small farmer credit (para. 49(c)) will result in better credit services
to these farmers.
Marketina of Cocoa and Citrus
52.      Attempts to deregulate the export marketing of coffee, cocoa,
citrus and pimento figured prominently in the SAL loans (see Annex IV). At
the same time, far reaching reforms were introduced in the sugar and banana
industries, including restructuring of marketing arrangements. Following
these reforms, the present situation is satisfactory with regard to coffee,
pimento, sugar and bananas. However, for cocoa and citrus further
deregulation of their marketing would be desirable.
53.      Cocoa. Deregulation of cocoa exports to date has been on paper
only, as the Cocoa Industry Board (CoTB, a statutory Government body with
producer representation) continues to control 1002 of exports. This is



. 22 -
because while cocoa cultivation is a small farmer crop (there were some
25,000 farmers producing just 2,640 tons of dry cocoa beans in 1987),
deregulation guidelines are that only large growers or growers'
cooperatives producing a minimum of 200 tons of dry cocoa annually can
apply for a license to become direct exporters. So far nobody has applied.
Production and exports of cocoa have been stagnant, and farmers have been
receiving only aboult 50Z of the export price in recent years in direct cash
payments. The remaining 50 is allocated to cover the CoIl's current and
capital expenses associated with the marketing and processing of the crop
and the provision of some support services to production. Since Jamaican
cocoa is fine flavor cocoa with a quality price premium of about 10, there
may be some justification for a Government role in certification of exports
quality. However, the present arrangements, which give the CoIlB wide
ranging powers to regulate the marketing of cocoa in all its aspects, are
clearly too restrictive and inimical to the development of the industry.
54.      Citrus.  Deregulation of citrus exports has been partially
successful but some problems remain. Citrus growers have three outlets for
their fruit: (a) selling in the unregulated domestic market, (b) selling to
the two existing processing plants, one of which is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the CGA (a private association of growers), and which produce
frozen fruit concentrates and canned fruit sections for both the domestic
market and for export, and (c) selling to one of three approved direct
private exporters of fresh fruit. Direct exporters currently market about
250,000 boxes of 90 lbs. each of fruit per year, out of a total production
of about 1.5 million boxes. Only growers with at least 50 acres of citrus
planted or who produce at least 15,000 boxes of fruit per year can apply to
the CGA to get a license to become direct exporters. CGA is supposed to
ensure that the fruit is of an acceptable quality and that proper packing
facilities are available. Since approval is only given on an annual basis,
the CGA can exercise considerable control over direct exporters. The
latter can buy fruit from other growers but only with permission from CGA.
These arrangements do not constitute a sound basis for the development of
the citrus industry. CGA has an incentive to restrict sales from farmers
to direct exporters in order to protect the supply of fruit to its plant.
Direct exporters have been paying higher prices for fruit than the two
plants. So far the CGA has not blocked any purchases of fruit by direct
exporters, but CGA officials are very concerned about the impact of
deregulation on their fruit supplies. They have recently made a proposal
to MOA to double the minimum size requirements for direct exporter status
in a bid to prevent more direct exporters from entering the business.
Since Jamaica is a small producer in the world citrus market (a price
taker) and has no quality premium to preserve, there is no reason why
citrus exports ought to be regulated. In spite of these pitfalls,
deregulation has undoubtedly infused new life into the citrus industry.
Total production and exports of fruit have been increasing rapidly.
55.      Proposed Reform Program.  The Government proposes to move
decisively towards deregulation of cocoa and citrus marketing:
(a) For cocoa, the Government has recently issued, through the
Minister of Agriculture, new deregulation guidelines that: (i)
eliminate the requirement of a minimum production (currently of
200 tons of dry cocoa per year) for private parties to be able to
apply for a direct exporter license; tii) allow any private



. 23 a
entrepreneur, and not only growers and growers' cooperatives, to
become a direct exporters (iii) eliminate all existing
restrictions in terms of buying or selling prices In private cocoa
transactions, and in terms of location of private direct exporters
and their suppliers (growers); and (iv) eliminate the restriction
that negotiations for the marketing of cocoa by private direct
exporters must be conducted through one of the CoIB's agents.
Before second tranche release, the Government would prepare
legislation providing for the amendment of the Cocoa Industry
Board Act of 1957, in such a manner as to enable any legally
constituted private firnms to engage in the unrestricted
purchasing, processing and exporting of cocoa and cocoa products,
subject only to the standard legal requirements for firms in all
sectors of the economy, except that the Government through the
Cocoa Industry Board would retain a function of quality control
over cocoa output of private exporters. Membership of cocoa
producers and processors in the Cocoa Industry Board would be
voluntary, and no cess would be imposed on non-members. Approval
by Parliament of such legislation would be a condition of second
tranche release; and
(b) For citrus, the Government has recently issued, through the
Minister of Agriculture, new deregulation guidelines thats (i)
clearly specify the circumstances under which a license to export
could be denied or revoked, and the recourses available to the
petitioner; (ii) eliminate the minimum requirement in terms of
production or acreage (15,000 field boxes per year or 50 acres of
plantings) for a grower to be able to become a direct exporterg
Ciii) allow any private entrepreneur, and not only growers, to be
able to apply for a license as a direct exporter; and (iv) mae
the payment of a cess to the CGA on citrus production voluntary
(i.e., only for farmers choosing to belong to the CGA). Before
second tranche release, the Government would prepare legislation
providing for the amendment of the Agriculture Marketing Act of
1944 in order to simplify the procedure for the Minister of
Agriculture to be able to modify any Marketing Plan submitted
under the Act (a Marketing Plan is a law that regulates the
marketing of a particular crop; at present, the only Marketing
Plan in existence is the one for citrus). The present procedure
is extremely cumbersome, as it calls for the formation of a
Commission of Enquiry to make recommendations to the Minister on
any proposed changes to a Marketing Plan. Amendment by Parliament
of the Agricultural Marketing Act along the above lines would be a
condition of second tranche release. After such amendment, the
Minister of Agriculture would proceed to modify by decree the
Citrus Marketing Plan of 1949, in such a manner as to enable any
legally constituted private firms to engage in the unrestricted
purchasing, processing and exporting of citrus and citrus
products, subject only to the standard legal requirements for
firms in all sectors of the economy. This modification of the
Citrus Marketing Plan would also be a condition of second tranche
release.



- 24 -
Public Divestment Proaram
56.      The role of the public sector in the economy increased
substantially in the 1970s. However, the Government has embarked on a
substantial program of divestment of public assets in all sectors of the
economy. In the agricultural sector, the Government has introduced the
following programs (for further details, see Annex VIII)t
(a) Divestment of Government Lands. Programs to divest Government
lands suitable for agriculture through sale or long-term lease
have continued after SAL II. There are two such programs.  One
program administered by Agro-21 and almost completed has leased
out about 30,000 acres of medium- and large-scale plots for
comercial agriculture on a long-term basis. The other program,
administered by MOA, consists of the outright sale of Government
lands in small plots for farming. About 41,000 acres had been
sold as of the end of FY88. Once this program is completed,
remaining Government land will kainly fall into three categoriess
natural forests (about 200,000 acres), not suitable for
agriculture; bauxite lands (about 160,000 acres), which are
reserved for mining but are partially leased ouit for farming on a
short-term basis; and land in 6Overnment enterprises (about
150,000 acres; see (c) below);
Cb) Land Titling. Under a program started in 1987, the Government
will issue property titles to approximately 36,200 small farmers.
'these are lands that were either sold or leased out on a long-term
basis by the Government in the context of various programs over
the past several decades, but for which no formal titles were ever
issued. Lack of titles makes access to credit more difficult,
acts as a disincenxive to investment and hampers the development
of a fluid land market. A first phase of the titling program
during which 12,000 titles are to be issued is being supported by
an IDB project. In FY87, 2,600 titles were issued. A further
2,400 titles were issued in FY88; and
(c) Divestment of Government Enterprises. The Government owns and
operates some twenty agricultural and agroindustrial enterprises.
No new Government enterprises in these sectors have been set up in
the past three years, however, and present policy is to gradually
divest the existing ones. In the 1980-88 period, 14 agricultural
and agroindustrial Government enterprises were divested through a
combination of sale of assets and long-term leasing of land.
57.      Proposed Reform Proaram.  Government policies and programs on
divestment of public assets In the agricultural sector would continue along
the lines followed in recent years:
(a) Land Divestment. The MOA would continue implementing its program
of sales of Government land to small farmerw. About 36,000 acres
of land suitable for this purpose remain. MOA expects to be able
to sell an additional 7,000 acres in FY89, and complete the
program by the end of FY91. The total program, when complete,
will benefit over 14,000 families settled in a total of 77,000
acres;



- 25 -
(b)  Land TitlinA.  The program's targets are to issue 2,000 titles
during FY89 and a further 5,000 titles in PY90, to complete the
first phase of 12,000 titles. The second phase of the program,
involving about 24,000 additional titles, requires that additional
infrastructure (roads, water and electricity) be upgraded to meet
legal standards prior to issuance of titles. A study of
infrastructure requirements covering about half of the remaining
lots has been completed. The second phase, to be supported by the
EEC, is expected to be completed by the end of FY94: and
(c) Enterprise Divestment. The Government would continue the
implementation of its program to divest agricultural and
agroindustrial enterprises. During the course of PYs 89-90, the
Government expects to complete the divestment of the following
enterprisess Eastern Banana Estates Ltd. (where the goal is to
reduce the Government's equity position from 701 to 15Z); Jamaica
Fisheries Complex; Innsvood Vinegar; National Rums Ltd.; Cornwell
Dairy Development Ltd.; National Cassava Products Ltd.;
Agricultural Mechanical Services; and Cocoa Industry Board
properties (five farms totalling 3,000 acres). Additional
enterprises would be targeted for divestment beyond FY90.
Use of Chemical Pesticides
58.      No comprehensive study of the use of chemical pesticides has been
carried out in Jamaica. However, the presence of significant pesticide
residues in the soil, food, potable waters, rivers, coastal waters, and
fauna of the country is well documented. The Government is concerned about
improper pesticide use, and a Pesticide Control Act has been recently
enacted. However, many aspects of the Act such as the establishment of a
Pesticide Control Authority and preparation of the pertinent regulations
are still to be worked out.
59.      The Government has prepared, with Bank assistance, terms of
reference for a study to review chemical pesticides use, policies and
regulatory arrangements, including the implications of the enactment of the
Pesticide Control Act and requirements for its effective implementation
(see Annex IX). Before second tranche release, the Government would have
the study completed by a qualified independent agency and submit to the
Bank a satisfactory plan of action to implement the recommendations of the
study.
Policy-Based Operations. Under Prenaration and Ongoing
60.      Second Trade and Financial Sector Adiustment Loan.  This
operation, presently at the preparation stage, aims at completing the
reform of the overall trade regime. It would address issues including
tariff levels and quantitative restrictions, duty exemptions and customs
administration. In the financial sector, it would focus on interest rate
policy and strengthening of the regulatory framework and capital market
development.



- 26 -
61.      The Social Sectors Develonment Project.  This sector loan
operation, approved in June 1989, supports institutional and policy reforms
leading to mproved coverage and benefits and greater efficiency and equity
In the Government's health, nutrition (food stamps, school lunch) and
education programs. Such reforms would be accompanied by a substantial
increase in resources allocated to these programs. In addition to the
Bank, several other donor agencies participate in the overall program.
PART IV - OTHER FlATURIS OF THE LOAN
Loan Hlistorv
62.      The process for the preparation of the loan started in early 1986,
when at the Government's request an agricultural sector policy review was
conducted by FAO in the context of the BanklFAO Cooperative Program. The
report from this mission was issued in July 1986 and provided the initial
analytical basis for the operation. Subsequent to this, a nuwber of
working papers were comnissioned by the Government on specific policy areas
that required more in-depth analysis. These papers provided the basis for
the appraisal of the loan in November 1988. Negotiations took place in
Washington in August 1989, and the Jamaican delegation was led by Ms.
Shirley Tyndall, Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Annex X
contains a timetable of key events in processing the operation and a
description of special conditions of the proposed loan.
Loan Description
63.     The proposed loan would be for an amount of US$25 million
equivalent, divided into two tranches of US$12.5 million equivalent each.
It would finance the CIF cost of a wide variety of general Imports, subject
only to a negative list of prohibited items. The proposed operation forms
an integral part of the reform program included in the MTFP and, with the
associated cofinancing, of its overall financing program. The loan amount
is also closely related to the Bank's overall lending program In Jamaica
and to exposure considerations.
64.     The matrix in Annex VI su-arizes the policy actions that were
taken prior to Board presentation and those that will be taken prior to the
release of the second tranche. A discussion of these is included in Part
III above, and in the Government's Agricultural Development Policy
Statement, which is included as Annex V.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.     Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing under the proposed loan. All purchases exceeding US$1.5 million
equivalent would be made through simplified international competitive
bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Imports of luxury, military,
environmentally hazardous or other goods that are specifically prohibited
in a negative list would not be eligible for fitancing.



- 27 _
66.      A recently conducted Bank review of public and private sector
procurement practices in Jamaica determined that limited bidding is the
procedure generally followed by most firms and Government
agenciesicompanies for the adquisition of goods, both locally and from
abroad. This procedure consists In conveying invitations directly to
several suppliers in approved lists. An exception is the Government's
3upply Division (Ministry of Finance), which as a rule must tender publicly
with advertisements in the local press for all purchases over J$ 15,000.
Another important exception has been the Petroleum Company of Jamaica,
which normally procures petroleum products in the framework of the San Jose
accord or through direct negotiated contracts. For the proposed loan, for
all nurchases under US$1.5 million equivalent, the following procurement
procedures would applys
(a) For public sector agencies and companies, procurement would be
carried out following limited international bidding, unless
otherwise agree4 by the Bank.
(b) For private sector firms, established commercial practices of
these firms would be followed, provided that quotations from
eligible suppliers from at least two countries would be sought,
and the contract would be awarded to the lowest bidder, except
where direct contracting is permitted under paragraph 3.5 of the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement
procedures would be followed under the loan.
67.      Because of the modality of procurement of petroleum products that
has prevailed in the past (para. 66), such products would in principle not
be eligible for financing under the loan. However, the Government is in
the process of establishing a high-level committee for the procurement of
petroleum products. If petroleum products were henceforth procured
following competitive procedures under the guidance of this committee. the
Bank would be prepared to consider waiving the provision excluding
petroleum products from financing under the loan, if the Government should
so request, in the context of specific withdrawal applications.
68.     The proposed Bank loan would consist of two equal tranches, with
the second tranche to be made available upon satisfactory progress on the
loan's policy conditionalities.  It is expected that cofinancing
arrangements would follow the same disbursement tranching procedure. The
first tranche of the loan is expected to be disbursed soon after loan
effectiveness. Retroactive financing would be permitted for an amount not
to exceed 202 of the loan (or US$5.0 million equivalent), to cover imports
made up to four months before the signing date. Retroactive financing
would only cover goods the procurement of which has met the requirements
specified in paras. 65 and 66 above. The second tranche would be disbursed
shortly after it has been determined that the policy actions that have been
taken are satisfactory to the Bank. Such determination is expected to
occur within about twelve months after loan effectiveness. The Bank of
Jamaica would be responsible for the coordination and collection of
relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal applications under the
loan, ensuring that only purchases that meet the agreed procurement



- 28 -
procedures are included in withdrawal applications. To assist with this
work, a qualified Procurement Specialist would be appointed by the Bank of
Jamaica for the duration of the loan. Disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs), except for contracts valued at US$1.5
million equivalent or more, for which disbursements would be made against
full documentation. The minimum value for each SOB submitted would be
US$250,000 equivalent, for which the detailed documentation evidencing
expenditures would be retained by the Bank of Jamaica and made available
for the required audit and also for inspection by the Bank.  Expenditures
for goods procured under individual contracts costing less than US$5,000
equivalent would not be eligible for financing under the loan.
69.     Because the proposed operation forms an integral part of a broad
financing program for Jamaica, it is recommended that the loan be disbursed
against general imports, subject only to a negative list of prohibited
items. Also, the financing of foodstuffs imports will not exceed 20S of
the loan amount. The alternative of limiting loan disbursements to a
positive list of agricultural imports has been considered but it appears to
he impractical. An analysis of 1988 import data at the seven-digit level
of the Standard Classification of Trade Data (SITC) indicates that readily
identifiable agricultural input imports in that year amounted to about
US$34 million only. The corresponding figure for 1989 is unlikely to be
much higher. Moreover, it is estimAted that about one-half of 1989 imports
of agricultural inputs will have financing from bilateral or multilateral
sources under existing agreements. Restricting loan disbursements to a
positive list of imports would thus only be possible at the cost of a
considerable lengthening of the disbursement period, especially taking into
account that cofinanciers would want to disburse their funds on the same
basis as the Bank. A lengthening of the disbursement period would in turn
be in conflict with the joint Bank-Goverament assessment of required
external financing.
Records and Auditina
70.     The Bank of Jamaica would maintain separate records and accounts of
all transactions under the loan. All such accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the auditor's
report would be submitted to the Bank not later than .our months after the
end of each Jamaican fiscal year. Audit reports would include a separate
opinion with respect to the disbursement requests submitted to the Bank on
the basis of SOEs and Atate whether such requests have been effected in
accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement.
Monitorina
71.     The progress of the Government's reforms in the agricultural sector
and of the measures supported by the proposed operation would be closely
monitored through regular supervision. A specific supervision mission
would review compliance with the conditions for release of the second
tranche.
Cofinancing
72.     It is anticipated that the loan would be cofinanced by OECF/Japan
under its untied recycling facility by an amount of US$25 million



- 29 -
equivalent. OECF cofinancing would be on a parallel basis. The federal
Republic of Germany through the RfE is also expected to cofinance the
proposed loan by an amount of ten million marks (or about US$5 million
equivalent). It is expected that cofinanclng would be on highly
concessional terms.
Benefits and Impact on the Poor
73.     Benefits.  The reforms supported by the proposed loan would improve
prospects for the effLsient growth of the agricultural sector. The
rationalization of the agricultural importation regime (para. 44(a) and
(b)) and the scaling down of the Generalized Food Subsidies (para. 44(c))
would bring domestic relative producer prices of tradables more in line
with relative border prices. thus effecting a more efficient allocation of
production resources within agriculture, and between agriculture and other
sectors.  In particular, production for export would be encouraged. nlile
the corresponding efficiency gains have not been quantified, they are
likely to be substantial. In addition to the static gains from better
resource allocation, there would be substantial dynamic efficiency gains
stemming from a more open competition between domestic agriculture and
imports, via a quicker pace of technological change. In agricultural
credit, the reductions in Interest rate differentials between directed
(ACB-rediscounted) loans to medium and large farmers and market loans from
commercial banks" own resources, and the reduction in the maximu
percentage of ACB financing for these farmers (para. 49(a)) would lead to
an improvement in the allocation of investment resources in agriculture, as
market lending interest rates measure the opportunity cost of investment
funds for the economy. Parallel reforms on the ACB's treatment of PCB
arrears and the widening of financial intermediaries eligible to channel
ACB-rediscounted small farmer loans (para. 49(b) and (c)) would strengthen
the financial integrity of ACB and improve lending services to amall
farmers, respectively. Regarding the deregulation of cocoa and citrus
marketing (para. 55), the new arrangements would lead to greater
competition for purchase of the farmers' produce, thus ensuring that
farmers obtain the best possible price consistent with world market
conditions. This, in turn, should lead to higher growth of these
industries than it would be possible under the present arrangements. (For
cocoa, a 1983 Bank study estimated that total deregulation of cocoa
marketing would lead to a 172 Increase in production, other things
remaining equal).
74.     The reforms referred to in the previous paragraph are all geared to
improving the economy's relative price structure as a guide to greater
resource allocation efficiency. The continuation of the public divestment
program (para. 57) aims at improving the economic use of valuable assets by
transferring their control to the private sector. The land titling
component of this program would round off previous land divestment programs
and increase farmers' incentives for fixed investments. With regard to
chemical pesticides (para. 58-59), it is clear that failure to establish
and operate an effective control mechanism would lessen Jamaica's
agricultural export prospects and result in higher health care costs
domestically. Finally, also beneficial for the growth prospects of the
agricultural sector will be the planned reforms to improve agricultural
research and extension services (para. 31), the strengthening of MO&'s
management (para. 32), and the reorganization of Government efforts to



- 30 -
protect the environment (par&. 27). While these reforms are not directly
related to the proposed loan through the loan's conditionality, they are
nevertheless an integral part of the Government's strategy towards
agriculture, and will likely be supported by other forthcoming Bank
operations (paras. 32, 39).
75.     Imuact on the Poor.  The reforms on which the loan would be
conditioned have been designed mostly with a view to promoting efficient
growth. The improvements in the incentive regime and sector regulations
leading to a more open, efficient, competitive and productive agriculture
should over time create additional employment opportunities in agriculture
and related activities and hence from a general perspective they should
help the poor. Moreover, the direct Impact of the reforms would clearly be
beneficial to the poor in the cases of the land divestment and titling
programs, deregulation of cocoa and citrus marketing and chemical
pesticides control. The scaling down of the 6PS program would result in
some reduction of food subsidies to the poor. However, available data show
that the bulk of the benefits of this program accrues to the non-poor.
Moreover, targeted programs of food subsidization (food stamps, school
lunch) would be expanded and improved in their coverage and targeting
siultaneously with the scaling down of the GFS program (para. 61).
Regarding agricultural credit reforms, the lifting of restrictions on
lending to small farmers by credit unions and comercial banks using ACB
funds should lead to greater competition and better services to these
farmers.
76.    The one area of reform where adverse direct consequences for
certain poor farmers may occur is the reform of the agricultural
importation regime. Rationalization of this regime may reduce the incomes
of many small farmers who now benefit from the very high levels of
protection granted to the crops they grow, and which would, in tim, be
lowered by the reforms. For this reason a longer (seven years instead of
five) adjustment period has been allowed for In the reduction of protection
of typical small farmer crops. It should also be noted that, since the
affected farmers also consume the products whose protection is to be
lowered, their percentual loss in real income would be less than in nominal
income. Moreover, further reductions of industrial protection in the
context of the continuation of the GovernAment's overall program of trade
reform, to be supported by the planned Second Trade and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (para. 60), would improve the domestic terms of trade for
agriculture and would thus raise real incomes of poor farmers. Finally,
account should be taken of the fact that the non-farming poor would gain
from the reduction of protection to domestic production of foodstuffs.
Incomes of protected farmers are artificially inflated by high protection,
and the incremental income thus afforded to them constitutes an income
transfer from domestic food consumers, many of whom are poor. Thus the
proposed reforms may well improve income distribution, in addition to
improving resource allocation efficiency.
77.     Small farmers affected by the reforms would receive special
attention in the context of the Government's efforts to restructure
agricultural research and extension services (para. 31). Most small
farmers are located in the hillsides, and would thus benefit from
interventions in the next Bank investment project in agriculture, which
would focus on the protection and development of the country's watersheds.
Small farmers would be assisted to Increase their productivity while
growing crops that are not damaging to their fragile environment.



_ 31 -
Risks
78.    The main risk is that the proposed reformes in the agricultural
Importation regime could elicit strong opposition from affected famsrs and
agroindustrialists, loading to attempts to block such reforms. Opposition
to the reduction of credit subsidies could also be organized by farmer
organizations. From a more general point of view, since the macroecoanmic
situation remains very fragile, any major departures from the careful
monetary and fiscal policies of recent years could render the agreed medium
term framework unviable, thus vitiating the rationale for continued balance
of payments support. However, the present Administration appears to be
firmly committed to maintaining prudent macroeconomic policies and carrying
through the proposed reforms.
PART V - COUNTR, POLICIES AND BANK OPERATIONS
Main Develgpment Issues and Policy Asn-da
79.      The economic progress attained in Jamaica ln recent years (paras.
7-15) has, on the whole, been satisfactory; however, the adjustment process
is far from over. Further progress in promoting exports and domestic
savings is essential in view of the debt service burden still facing the
country. Therefore, strong Government commitment to continue with the
adjustment process will be crucial to maintaining and improving Jamaica's
creditworthiness and recent growth performance.
80.      Jamaica's Government elected early last year has been stressing
continuity In economic policies and pragmatism in economic management.
ThiLs attitude is reflected in the strenuous stabilization efforts made
during FY89 (see paras. 11-14) in the context of IMF stand-by arrangements.
The 20-month stand-by arrangement approved in September 1988 and modlfied
in February 1989 could not run its course when, In October 1989, it became
clear that Jamaica's net reserves sltuation was not improving according to
target. That arrangement has now been succeeded by a new one covering the
period January 1990 to June 1991 and involving, among other elements, the
followings new measures to mobilize extra domestic resources equal to about
41 of projected GDP in FY90; tight monetary management, including flexible
interest rates and open market operatlons by the BOJ to absorb excess
liquLdity; an Initial depreciation of the Jamalcan dollar to J$? per US
dollar (para. 13); and, thereafter, periodic review of the competitiveness
of the Jamaican dollar.
81.      In addition to the stabilization program for FY90, the Govermnent
is now formulating a comprehensive agenda for policy reform, and is
expected shortly to complete an updating of the MTFP. Xn this process, the
major policy areas which will need to be addressed ares
(a)  The Exchange Rate Restme.  Flexlbility is needed in using the
exchange rate as a tool of economic management, so that Jamica's
competitiveness in international markets will be maintained.
(b) The Flscal Deficit. Good progress in bringing the flscal deficit
under control has been made In the past. However, Interest



- 32 -
payments on the external public debt consume about 30 of the
Government' s recurrent revenues and the task of further reducing
public sector expenditures will require strenuous effort. by the
Jamaican Government.
(c) The Allocation of Government Resources. In view of the scarcity
of Government resources ((bl above), there will be a need for a
better definition of the respective roles of the public and
private sectors, including a re-examination of the pace and
contents of the divestment program; the implementation of
appropriate cost recovery measures; and better targeted GovernmeA.t
interventions to assist the most vulnerable groups.
(d)  Interest Rates.  The level of the budget deficit, combined with
the exchange rate management system, has kept interest rates very
high in real terms in recent years, constraining much needed
private investments.
(e) The Incentive Framework. Continued improvements in the incentive
framework are necessary in order to improve resource allocatiou
efficiency and to foster growth. The main requirement is the
continuation of the trade reform program at a steady pace.
Introduction of the General Consumption Tax, now intended to occur
during PY90, is also important.
Vacroeconomic Prospects
82.      Provided the Government presses on with the adjustment process,
the economy could feasibly grow at around 3 percent per year over the
medium term. The major impetus to growth is expected to arise from
increased output of bauxite and alumina, plans and markets for which are
already in place; rehabilitation of export agriculture, especially bananas
and coffee; construction activities, including improvements in the economic
infrastructure; and further expansion of tourism. At the same time, the
growth of consumption should remain below that of GDP to permit domestic
savings, especially public sector savings, to continue to improve.
83.      By present estimates, Jamaica's terms of trade over the next five
years are expected to decline by about 7S. Hence, strong trade policies,
including continued promotion of tourism, will be needed to reduce
progressively the external current account deficit from an equivalent of 62
of GDP in FYs8 to around U2 by FY93. Along with the anticipated
improvements in the external current account, Jamaica will need to continue
attracting private and official capital, including reschedulings, carefully
matched to the medium-term objective of reducing the country's debt burden.
The presently estimated external financing requirements are discussed in
the following section. Detailed projections of the medium-term
macroeconomic and balance of payments prospects can be found in Annex I.
External Capital Reauirements
84.      For the economy as a whole, net capital inflows (including IMF
credit) over the last three years averaged about US$190 million per year.
Jamaica's large external debt will continue to pose a serious burden on the



- 33 -
economy until the debt service ratio is significantly lowered. The
composition of Jamaica's d St, however, provides limited flexibility for
its restructuring in view of the high proportiao due to preferred creditors
(452), and the very limlted amount contracted on commercial terms (about
102). Moreover, the country's creditworthiness for commercial borrowing
will remain very limited. Thus, continuing reschedulings, private foreign
investments, and concessional assistance will remain the major tools
available to sustain Jamaica's economic adjustment program in the medium
term, while exports pick up.
85.      Indeed, as exports pick up, Jamaica's annual external financing
requirements are expected to decline (Annex I). Nonetheless, the net
capital inflows (including rKF repurchases) projected at present would not
be sufficient to cover the current deficits and provide a minimal reserve
cushion. By present estimates, therefore, financing gaps averaging US$165
million per year would occur in the next three years. Gaps of this
magnitude could be managed largely with new reachedulings and further
purchases from the IMF.
Bank Exoosure
86.      Jamaica's total debt outstanding to the Bank accounts for about
15Z of its total debt outstanding. Over the last several years, the Bank
has supported the Government's economic reform program for Increased
exports, and has played a catalytic role in attracting concessional
financing from other agencies. Table 2 below presents the evolution of the
Bark's transactions and position with Jamaica over the last three years.
Table 2
JAMAICA-IBRD TRANSACTIONS AND POSITION. J186 188
J1Y86   JFY87   JPY88
(US$ Million)
Disbursements                                       20.6    97.6    47.8
Repayments ./                                       33.3    42.2    52.1
Net Flows                                          -12.7    55.4    -4.3
Interest and Commitment Charges                     51.0   57.6   59.7
Net Transfers                                      -63.7    -2.2   -64.0
Debt Service to IBRD                                84.3   99.8  111.8
IBRD DOD, year-end at Market Value                 610.2   733.9   655.4
Exchange Al-iustment                               160.0   217.1   128.3
IBRD DOD, , Ar-end at Book Value                   450.2   516.8   527.1
(Percentages)
IBRD DOD/Total DOD  la                              14.9    17.6    15.9
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service  /b            12.0   13.3    13.8
IBRD Debt Service/Total Exports  /c                  5.7     5.9     6.8
-.--------------------------------------------------------------------__-
Ia Based on market values. Total debt is MLT debt and includes IMP.
lb Total debt service is on cash basis, i.e., after rescheduling.
Ic Total exports includes goods and services.



- 34 -
87.      As can be seen from the above table, the Bank's exposure has not
changed significantly In the last three years. Overall, the lank has had
little flexibility in reducing its exposure, given the need to support the
country at a critical phase of the long-sought economic turnaround.
Mobilisation of other agencies' support has not led to a reduction of the
lank's exposure since such mobilization has often taken the form of
cofinancing of lank operations. Thus the Bank's indicators of exposure can
be expected to remain high while Jamaica makes a transition towards greater
export earnings.
Bank Assistance StrateEt
88.      Bank assistance strategy in the near future will consist of the
following key elementst
(a)  Continued suvoort to the economic adiustment oroAram of the
Government and close monitorint of the economy, through economic
and sector work and specific policy-based operations. It is
expected that economic work over the next several months will give
priority to updating the MTPP and associated financing plan.
Close coordination with the IVW will be maintained In this
process. In addition to the proposed loan, two other adjustment
loans are planned over the next two years, namelys (i) Trade and
Finance 22 (para. 60), and (ii) Public Sector Adjustment 2I
(currently in its initial identification stage).
(b) Close monitorina of the Bank's exoosure and level of net
disbursements, with the aim to replace quick disburseing loans by a
gradual increase in project loan disbursements over the medium
term.
(c)  Strenathenina of thealroject gortfolio, including sector loans and
investment loans which would pay close attention to overall secto.
policies and Institutions and serve as a vehicle for appropriate
reforms thereof. In addition to the Social Sectors Project (para.
61), the Bank lending program over the next several years includes
sector operations in highways, water and sewerage, and housing
(all under preparation). In agriculture, the next operation is
expecLad to be a watershed protection project, which would support
a nationwide program to check watershed degradation and protect
water supplies, while raising the productivity of small farmers
inhabiting the sloping areas of the watersheds. Also under
preparation is a project to support the second phase of the
Government's administrative reform program, which will give
special emphasis to financial planning and administration.
ld) Assistance to the GoverAment in securing the total external
financina reauired in the context of the MTFP, preferably in the
form of grants and concess.onal loans. It is expected that most
of the Bank's lending operations in the near future will attract
substantial cofinancing. Beyond this, direct assistance will
contlnue to be given to the Government, in the context of the
Consultative Group for Caribbean Economic Development (COCED),
to coordinate external aid on a continuing basis.



- 35 -
Creditworthiness for Bank Borrowins
89.      Despite the recent economic progress, Jamaica's creditworthiness
for Bank borrowing will remain limited during the next few years. There is
little room for maneuver for the Government and its position will contlnue
to require close monitoring. The most Important risks ares a lessened
commitment to policy reforms with consequent delay in key adjustment
measures; and further adverse changes in the external environment.
90.      ehile the adjustment program seems to have brought positive
results so far, it is not over. The budget and current account Oeficit*
have to be kept under close control.  In addition, and despite recent
progress, growth in domestic savings and export growth and diversification
remain crucial in view of Jamaica's high external debt service and export
concentration.  The most serious risk in this regard would be a decline in
Jamaica's competitive position due to an overvaluation of the currency;
this, however, as well as budget deficit targets, will be closely monitored
as part of the new IMP prograr. (pars. 80). Jamaica's recent economic
performance was helped by favorable external factors which could turn
against it in the future; however, this prospect is not presently apparent.
Indeed, world alumina markets have recently strengthened, with the
consequence that mines closed In the early eighties are being reopened, and
tourism seems to be recovering steadily following the 1988 hurricane. Yet,
the country's high external debt would seriously handicap Jamaica's
prospects, should the Government's economic performance deteriorate and/or
external concessional finamcing decline below the levels required to
sustain the economic adjustment program. To avert this risk, the Bank's
assistance strategy in Jamaica will continue to emphasize strong export and
growth performance, and close coordination of external assistance to
mobilize the financing necessary to support economic reforms and economic
recovery.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
91.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 9, 1990



-36-                                               A,* I
JWAICA                                          Pop I f 4
,,,4F4M,r,,,M~~~t dIM    4DW   o
..._....... ..._. _            .
NUUCo    M        t 6      MMP P  ROS W
(Prcoats . waie        l     Idicated
Actul                 S.                        Prjce
i(ei Indcators                       1*681  1985/8t  19lt6/87  1987/80 19/8  199/90 lptO  90/91  199/9  199/9  19/9   1996/9
DP trobth Rtte                             -5.6    -4.7      8.4     8.8      1.9     2.6     0.0      8.1     8.0      8.1     8.9
G6 growth Rate                             -8.8    -8.8      4.8     7.2      1.8     4.0     a.1      5.6     4.7      8.8     4.8
oPr,AIte Growt Rat.                        -7.4    -9.7      2.9     8.8    -0.1      2.6     1.7      4.2     8.J      1.9     8.0
Consumption/Ccapite Growt Rote             -4.8    -8.8      0.2     5.9    -4.0      6.5    -8.6      0.4     1.8    -1.7      0.4
T7.l Om 01/ (ti U"t  intMIs)             1524.0  *67.0  899.0  4165.0  4276.8  489.1  4610.7  4691.9  471.8  4817.3  464.7
CD/E_V .2/                                105.8   290.8   271.7   246.6   222.8   21.7   207.8   196.1   169.2   174.8   127.0
M .                                        se9.0   179.8   184.8   144.2   122.7   118.4   119.6   109.5   100.1    91.6    se.7
Debt Service _S/ (in UiS tRilNlen)        278.0   045.0   716.7   779.4   M89.8   712.9   798.0   784.4   770.2   73a.4  S59.1
Debt Sor"I c/81PPS                         18.1    48.s    48.7    46.1    41.2    86. 1    85.6    83.1    80.5    26.6    18.4
Debt Service/G                             10.0    29.9    27.7    27.0    25.6    19.0    20.6    18.8    16.2    18.9         7.1
intrest/DM                                 1S.0    28.9    20.9    18.8    16.1    16.1    14.4    18.2    12.8    11.9         0.5
14*1 S4t/P                                  7.2    14.0    11.9    10.7      9.8      0.8     6.8      7.8     6.6      6.2     8.0
ro"s 1nvestesman     _4/                   16.9    28.8    19.1   2s.8    21.0    17.4    10.8    17.0    17.1    17.2    20.4
oesetie SevingsMP _4/                      19.4     2.2    26.0    27.9    25.6    18.7    23.0   2sa.6    2.1    25.0    25.6
Notional Smv1ine/UP _4/                     6.4    10.2    14.0    17.6    16.2       0.9    14.6    16.2    16.6    18.6    22.8
Rarglsi Nations) Sevinge  eto CS)         62.8     6.9    89.6    41.2    19.4  -257.4   211.9    48.5    23.e 6      7.6    16.7
Public Inveateent/p                         ..     1.7    11.7       9.6    18.8      9.7    11.0    10.8      8.8    10.0    10.0
PbIle SewvIn"/CDP _S/                      -2.0     2.8      8.2    11.6      4.2     e.0     9.0    10.0    11.0    11.S    12.0
Private Inlvett/9P                          ..     10.1      7.4    18.5      7.7     7.7     5.3      6.7     0.8      7.2    10.4
Prive Sw"mvm/UP ,5/                         7.6     7.9      6.6     0.0    14.0      0.9     g.e      6.2     5.8      7.1    10.5
Ratie of Pubi cIPrivate Invstmt             ..      1.4      1.6     0.7      1.7     1.8     2.1      1.S     0.9      1.4     1.0
icRlt 6/                                   18.2    18.2    84.0    20.8    18.0       8.7     6.0      5.6     S.8     8.7      5.2
overnent Revenu1                           29.4   2s.5    88.6    86.4   36.4    86.0    so.1    86.2          6.S    86.4    88.5
Oovernsat Sapendi turee/                   48.6    S82.S  a3.9    85.4    89.2    85.0  a4.0    84.0    84.0    84.0    84.0
Deflit (-) or Srpluse ()/CP               -14.2    -8.6    -o..      1.0    -2.8      1.0     2.1      2.2     2.5      2.4     2.8
saprtoe 03  Growth Rat.                    -1.5   -17.8      5.9    16.6    10.2      9.2     8.7      4.0     2.9      8.8     8.2
Eaport. agwS     -4/                       80.9    51.9    81.7    88.9    85.4    56.9    60.0    60.8   60.4    62.4    61.4
Imports OM  rofS th Rat.                   -0.8    -1.1    16.1    11.9    10.1       8.5    -0.8      8.2     0.1      1.8     2.4
l>apr  01F/GDP -4/                         48.4    53.e    44.7    49.a    ss.8 55.  8.6    56.8    s6.6    86.9    86.2    s4.5
Curr.et Acecont (lB  III Iion)           -2.1  -29t.0  -110.6  -162.9  -220.5  -89.   -185.0  -1s7.6  -186.0  -186.7  -105.5
Current Accut/%P                           -e.5   -18.6    -4.8    -8.6    -6.8   -10.1    -4.6    -4.1    -3.9    -8.0    -1.8
TUees of Trod* Ind  (1900/S1 - 100)       100.0    98.8   125.1   11s5s   118.7    99.4   100.7    96.9    95.8    98.4    68.7
1/ Debt outstnding tnd disbursed. Inetudee HL., I). short-t.r  nd Captill debt.
/apor  of Saw* "W service.. including worker.' remittances.
83/ On tLT, tt9 end short-t.ru dbt. Hietoriect year. an cash bs*asi projected yeare on aecrual besis and including debt serice on Ospfill.
_4/ Ilietorical years In current priet.; prjected years In cwatent price. end adjueted for chnge.il terse of trode.
_S/ Th*  Cro  etios not doomtesil eavinge.
/ Fiv-year averae, one year too.
Sourte.: Stetleticl Inatituet of Jmica;
------- Quarterly t_te,nli Report, of the P104, vearous immunea
1ank of Jaesice
Int.rnaionsl tr4Nonry Fondw
le £ Social  sto bee, Ohe Debtor Rorting Syste and Staff eatidatee  the World Rank.



NATi0NAL ACCOUmI
(J8 Ilillo be Caus 1060/01 Prices)
A     (oIo           lot.                      ProiecPed
1900,/1 19605/6 1166/67  1937/66 1/08/66 1250/90 1090/91 11/92 1062/U  1W/94 19t99S
Gros Domestio Product M.p.              4870.5  4875.5  5042.6  6820.8  5421.4  562.6  5780.8  5005.5  0064.1  0170.3  7429.4
Resource solem                          -169.7  -128.0   108.0   -87.7  -116.5  -109.6   164.7   217.6   217.9   867.5   M07.
Exports of MUS                        216.?  8011.0  8865.2  8749.9  2907.0  8168.1  8486.6  8574.0  3077.6  800.7  4156.0
Imports at an                         2738.4  8123.2  8261.5  8767.0  8015.5  8272.9  8258.0  J835.0  8459.9  822.2  4051.4
Total Expndlturs                        5060.2  4002.1  409J.2  6856.0  5589.9  5572.4  5C45.0  5060.0  5666.8  5662.6  0660.6
Total Co*imupt.on                     4287.5  4101.1  4147.0  4471.8  4816.8  4071.1  4580.7  4062.7  4790.0  4786.0  5482.4
Public Conosuption                   060.2   M.0   716.5   744.2  1040.7  1062.8   086.0  1060.0  1109.6  1120.0  1177.
Private. Consumption                8286.8  8176.2  87s.5  8M.1  8277.  8566.6  8471.2  1554.2  86S9.2  8608.0  4254.5
Gross Deo_tle lnvestent                622.7   691.0 7706.6.0  12.   1001.8               5    1065.2  1006.5  1009.2  1466.4
Fixed nlvestmnt                      756.0   728.6  606.5   616.1  1159.4  1001.8   974.2  1088.6  1054.7  1097.8  14*65.7
Chngs In stocks                       06.7   147.1    75.7    71.6    62.2      0.0     1.7      1.6     1.5     1.9     2.6
Capacity to Ilport                      2596.7  8084.0  8762.5  4146.0  82s0.2  814.4  8067.5  807150.   8S4.1  4018.6  4482.4
Tern of Tr d Adj.t...t                     0.0    22.8   4b7.4   896.1   401.2   185.8   249.0   286.2   155.8   104.0  -196.0
Gross Domsstic lco.                     4670.5  4667.6  5450.2  5716.4  5622.0  5747.9  5979.8   0106.7  6240.4  0874.2  7801.
Gross Netionl Income                    42s8.0  4041.8  4000.2  466.1  406.1  4917.2  5M20.0  587.5  5551.9  5577.5  6682.2
Gross National Product                  4288.0  4016.9  4192.6  4498.1  4561.9  478.9  487.0  5152.6  58056.6  5 .   0s9.6
Gros Domestic Saving                     088.0   706.7  1268.2  1245.0  1504.8  1076.6  1400.5  1486.0  1440.7  1650.6  109.4
Net Factor Ino                        -481.9  -656.0  -40.0  -627.2  -601.5  680.7  452.7  -758.2  -066.5  -069.7  -409.5
Net Current Transfors                   98.0   266.4   251.6   248.2   260.7   192.0   190.0   161.5   172.0   100.7   140.5
Gross Nbtional Saving                     94.1   206.5   065.0  O66.0   901.5   486.1   746.S   60.8   924.1  1064.0  1540.4
Soures Stttatil Institute of Jamaeia;
--   Quarbrly Eenoalc Roports of the PIOJ, various t_sse;
Bank of J_eics;                                                                                                             4
E_omic A Social Data Base, the World Sank.



- ~     ~         ~         ~          -
(W  HUS . atrnr.o  um
* -- --  _-  -  -  -   _- _._  *    .  .*^~  ..._-   ----- -- ----- - -- -_----
A.  Uamert  of Goode a                 1899.9  1116.8   1133.2  1S8.      0.1  1936.1  9246.0   269.  2440. 2674.6  3784.7
1. Nath*     (4ook (S                1u09.    68.3 n02.8   7.    8.0  1072.8  I1.1  I.e   I.?  180.7  t2sM.6
2. Nan-Seater fst"la                  888.4   67s   7.0   7          1102.0  6M8.$    11.17  I0.0  1104.0  *174.1  u8.8
a.    -a  at  am" a                    SO MA   1181.8  118.8  149.0   76.   1914.0  19.1  28.?  2191.4  2146.7  8s40.9
1. lb   fee (OM                      148.2   900.0  0".7  I18.4  140.0   81.6  146.9  181.2  17.1  119.1  2719.9
2. "mm-Poctor Se1lm"                  297.2   26.8  29.6    1.2   36.9   8.2   409.2  468.6   491.8  S32.6  701.O
C.  _twrn  les.                          09.8   44.7   17.9   184.6   167.2   44.2   262.7   255.1   24.S   396.1   333.8
D. F_  Pat. I*ns                       -8W4.8  -8..  *4118.0  .41.0  419.2  -8s6.7   am.8  -89.6  -87.8  -616.0   88.2
1. eet.  *nnpt                         7.e   192.2   62.4    76.6    0.0    8.4         7.O     9.0    11.0    11.0   18.0
2. Fatter Pupast. of hid:             484.6   497.1   498.4 *601.6  6s.2   870.1   670.8   346.4   841.5   66.4   633.0
(lnter.th ,e'nAste)                197.2   8.7  3O0.0   39.6    6.2    M.7   62n.4    M.   2s.a    MA.s   1s.o
S. 16a~  Om am                          0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    12.2    27.8   42.2   67.2
_.  Na Currt Tr1.fet                    37.1   110.0   12.5   1r.6   171.8   181.0   125.8  1u1.8   182.8  12.S   188.0
1. Curan_t RUmt.. sa.Offlqle I ant.  116.1   167.6   177.8   1e.8      .8   1012.8   190.8   197.8   201.8   201.8  273.0
*. Wore4rs Rm.)tt.n"e               89.0   92.8   84.0   88.2   46.1   46.4   70.0   70.0   70.0   70.0   8.0
b. Oer Carr"t Tr_ater               68.1   75.8   1.8   US.3  1U.4   14.1  1U.8   11.8   I8.8   181.5  140.0
2. Cu"rras Papnt.                      n.7.9    81.0    6S.0   66.0   00.0    61.8    6.o    e.0    a.0    s.0    70.0
P.  Currean lAgount s .s1.. "W. Ormn"   -3.1  -23.0  -1        -62.9  -20.8  W81.  -1S.0  -1l8.0  -170.8  -8.0  -96.4
8.  Las-Ton  aplt.l U1tte               268.4   29.8   19.6   22.4   219.1   660.0   1,    88.0   49.1   81.8   02.1
I-. 01rag Inveetan                      0.0    20.0     2.0   01.2    0.0       7.      2.0    10.0    10.0   10.0  100.0
2. 26f111l. Cap1ta1 Grants             42.1    60.4   28.6  *41.0  176.6   66.6    66.0    60.0    60.0   60.0   60.0
8. at, Las-Tam Lan                    177.1   200.9     1.8   140.2  319.8   106.2 C  100.   -4.2  -20.9   -6.8  -67.9
*. Olbursuwwt                      210.7   448.0  26.1   418.0   401.7   4U6.2   471.8  S8.4   361.0   3iS.0  864.3
b. Sahedulad 1h_a7u                 68.5  489.4  UST.2  490.7  461.8   421.2   8.0   892.0   86.7   SSI.S   462.2
e. D" Naahedlad _t/                 81.9   1.8  814.6   20.9   1.9   161.2           4.8    2.4      0.0     0.0    0.0
4. Arrere _2/                        0.0  -14.8      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
4. Othwr LT  thOla  (nat)              34.1     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
H.  Toet Oter It=* (nte)               -170.6  w9.    116.s   110.3   -7.0 s.3    104.6    87.0    87.0   60.0    0.0
1. NM" Shot To Capital                  0.0     0.0    0.0    17.0   44.0  -12.6   1t.0         0.0     0.0  . 0.0      0.0
2. Capitol Pleas O.tLI.                10.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    16.2   36.0      0.0   -4.0    -8.0      0.0    0.0
3. Privet. C". * Irreo  A Sajesa     -130.6    98.   1.3    9.8   47.2  4W.0    69.6    60.0    60.0   60.0    0.0
L   Orll Slat"                        -18o.8   42.0       .8   19.6   71.6   411.0    76.0   -71.2   -70.4  4-4.         -4.3
J.  C_enge In N  amervg                 10.8  -a2.0   -6.8  -169.6  -71.6  CS.O  -M20.0  -104.0  -188.2   -s3.8  -23.7
t.    CrdIt fra  t. P                 -42.2  -19.4  -at.s  -118.6  -10.6   -"3.1  -22.7   -S.6   -78.8  -73.6   -1.8
*.  *e a                             0.0     7.    61.1   te.2   90.8    6.1   70.7   18.0    0.0            0.0    0.0
b. _our_es.                         42.2    97.0   14.4   19O8.0   96.9   146.2   98.4   61.8    78.8    78.a    1.8
S. eth.. amer,. angee                 192.7  -4.6   612.0  -76.0 o      6.0   Us.1  -17.8  -40.2  -29.9  -19.9  -22.2
(- . 1masse, p.012s1                                                                                        2
K.  PI""ain 0*v                           0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  t42.0   1tO.2   ttJ.6  t28.1    #.0



-39-
Annex I
Pog 4 of 4
ALMME  OF PAYnFNS             (Continued)
(US$ "Mllin lat Current Prices)
At                       t.                       Projected
19W/e1  i8s1esl/8      i 9e8/e7  1907/68 1969 /11 e/90 1 wor  l w/9    IM911e/92  lo/9 19/94  1998/9
~~~~~~~~-    - - - _- ^- -  *- - -_- - - - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- ---
Shore. of Grog. DoImtic Productz
Lt Cpitol Inflw (lne 0)   ()               9.9    12.1       1.1      6.4     8.4      9 2      4.0      0.8      1.0      1.1     1.1
tat Credit freo the W        (3)            0.4     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.s      1.0     0.0    -0.1    -0.1       0.0      0.0
Nemorondum tte_:
Gross D_omtic Product (Current U1S Mm)   2784.7  2180.2  2S92.9  2687.6  864.9  8988.9  S928.S  4868.1  485.2   8855.1  6482.6
Foreign Exchange Reearveo:
areg pservee _S/   (Current use* hA)        9.0    190.6   1s86.8   200.8   181.2    66.2  S60.2   410.2   518.4   606.9   660.8
Re_rves Coverage _ 4/(34nthe of Imports)    0.6     1.6      1.8      1.4      1.0     0.5      1.7      2.1      2.5     2.7      2.8
Exchag Rate. (JS/W3)
Noninal Official Echang Rate                 1.76    8.86    8.48    5.49    5.40    6.10    7.00          --       -_       ---     ---
Real Eff. r=ch. Rate Index _/ (1960*100)  100.00   64.00   69.00   60.00   74.46   67.78    69.62          --       ---     ---      -
.1/  eed asn ogreemante throulh November 18i only.
_2/ Other thn thae under rearve liab Iities. ittnus sign denote. reduction of the stock of arrers.
_/ JFS Line lid plus gold holding. at end of ficll year.
_4/ Gram resrves In month" of tworte of goo   nd ofI serviess.
_S/ Incres  (decrees) In Index denote, appreciation (deprci atlen).
Sourc.: San of JosIce;
Internotlonal rMnery Fund:
world Sank.



-40-
Annex II
Page 1 of 5
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUMT=NRN LOAN
BASIC AGRICULTURAL DATA
Production of Maior Atricultural Commodities, 1984-88
Commodity       Uhit of Measure   1984      198S      1986     1987     1988
Sugar              OOOt            182.0    206.0    203.0    186.0    212.0
Bananas (1)        OOOt             12.0     13.0      21.0     34.0     28.0
Citrus (2)         000 Boxes       580.0    714.0    932.0    793.0  1,146.0
Coffee             000 boxes       367.0    254.0    321.0    371.0    448.0
Cocoa              000 Long t        2        2.6       2.4      2.6      2.4
Pimento            Million lbs.      7.1      7.2       4.5      5.3     n.a.
Coconut (3)        000 Short t      19.2     20.2      21.7     23.3     24.0
Legumes (4)        000 Short t      11.4     12.0      11.1     11.4      8.5
Vegetables (5)     000 Short t    151.5    128.5    120.6    121.1       97.0
Condiments (6)     000 Short t      16.7     16.9      14.8     16.7     11.2
Fruits (7)         000 Short t      17.3     13.2      13.0     15.6     17.4
Cereals (8)        000 Short t      10.0      9.0       7.7      6.9      4.2
Plantain           000 Short t      33.7     33.5      33.7     31.0     28.8
Yams               000 Short t    164.3    180.5    182.9    193.6    183.9
Other Tubers (9)   000 Short t      55.9     54.3      53.1     48.3     43.5
Sorrel             000 Short t       0.8      0.9       0.8      0.7      0.5
Potatoes           000 Short t      53.1     42.7      35.7     37.2     32.7
Beef and Veal      Mlllion lbs      32.0     29.9      32.2     30.6     31.9
Goat               Mlllion lbs       1.6      1.5       1.4      1.4      1.5
Pork               Million lbs      15.8     16.0      13.4     14.2     16.8
Poultry            Million lbs      65.5     61.4      68.9     83.1     75.4
Fish (inland)      Million lbs       0.7      1.8       3.2      4.7      6.0
Eggs               Million         134.0    100.0      86.0    115.0     97.0
Milk (grade A)     Million Quarts  15.0      14.0      16.0     19.0     20.9
(1) Export quality only.
(2) Deliveries to packaging and processing plants only.
(3) Production expressed as copra equivalent weights.
(4) Gungo peas, red peas, peanuts, other legumes.
(5) Cabbage, callaloo, carrot, cho cho, cucumber, lettuce, okra, pumpkin,
tomato, other vegetables.
(6) Escallion, onion, hot pepper, sweet pepper, other condiments.
(7) Pawpaw, pineapple, watermelon.
(8) Corn and rice.
(9) Bitter cassava, sweet cassava, coco, dasheen.
Sources Planning Institute of Jamaica and Statistical Institute of Jamalca.



-41-
Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
JAMAICA
AGRICULTURAL SBCT0X ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Volume of Maior Agricultural EsDorts. 1984-88
Unit of Measure   1984      198S     1986     Lt87    1988
Sugar                OOOt           157.1    151.5    143.4    135.7   152.7
Bananas              oOOt            11.0     13.0      21.0     34.0    28.0
Citrus               oOOt             3.0      6.4       8.4      8.3    11.0
Coffee, Unroasted    Short Tons  1,462.0    884.0    823.0  1,001.0 1,040.0
Coffee, Roasted      Short Tons      50.0     71.0      48.0     72.0    66.0
Cocoa                000 Long Tons   1.9       1.9       2.1      1.9     1.7
Pimento              oOOt             1.6      2.6       2.5      2.3     2.3
Tubers (1)           OOOt             9.0     11.4      12.8     11.8    11.2
Vegetables (2)        OOOt            5.3      6.7      10.5      6.0     3.3
Fruits (3)           OOOt             1.5      3.5       4.4      1.6     1.7
Ornamentals (4)      oOOt             0.4      0.4       0.7      1.2     0.5
M1)m Yams, sweet potato, cassava, dasheens, eddoes and other tubers.
(2)- Pumpkins, sweet pepper, cucumber, tomato and other vegetables.
(3)- Avocados, mango., melon and other fruits.
(4)- Cut flowers and foliage.
Sources Planning Institute of Jamaica



-42-
Pags 3 of S
JAMUTCA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Main Food Imports. 1984-88
(000 metric tons)
1984   1 _     1986   1987   1988
CEREALS
Rice           52.1   55.2   61.7   52.5   69.8
Maize         202.5  147.1  121.8  153.5  187.1
wheat         118.7  201.9  168.0  198.9  165.5
Flour          40.3   10.8    2.9    4.5    3.9
Subtotal               413.6  415.0  354.5  409.3  426.2
OIL SEEDS
Soya Beaus     50.8    0.0   48.0   62.6   37.6
VEGETABLES               0.8    0.6    1.0    1.9    1.8
HEAT, FISH AND CRUSTA-
ClNS                    32.6   36.2   45.7   45.3   49.6
DAIRY PRODUCTS          16.8   17.2   18.0   26.1   14.9
Sou----ce-----Plann--------------stit----te---of-----a---ai---a
Source: Planning Institute of JTamaica



-43-
Page 4 of 5
AGRICULTURAL  ICO  DUHNTLOAN
Value Added In Aadculture. loregtrr g.o FlshIng. 1993-87
(J$ Nilllou)
1983   1964   1985   1966   1987
(IN CURsENT PRICE8)
AGUCULTUR$  FORESTRY AND PISBHNG    450.5  544.3  671.5  820.0  956.7
EXPORT A6BICULTURE                    75.2   99.0  133.2  155.4  180.6
SUGAR CAIE                          46.5   60.8   76.8   69.0  N.A.
OTHEB MRUN CROPS                    28.7   38.3   56.4   66.4  N.A.
DOMESTIC AGRICULTURE                *232.6  281.2  350.0  428.4  506.5
ROOT CROPS                          93.1  115.9  134.7  154.3  l.A.
OTHER PRIMARY PRODUCTS             139.4  165.3  215.2  274.1  N.A.
LIVESTOCK AND BUNTING                111.1  12?.2  137.3  165.9  166.1
FORESTRY AND LOGGING al                5.3    8.0   16.4   15.3   83.5
FISHING                               26.4   28.8   34.6   55.0   N.A.
(IN 1974 PRICEg)
AGRICULTURE  FORESTRY AND FISHING    154.2  169.7  163.6  160.2  164.3
EXPORT AGRICULTURE                    23.7   24.5   23.6   23.1   22.7
SUGAR CANE                          13.4   14.0   13.1   12.8   N.A.
OTHER MAIN EXPORTS                  10.2   10.5   10.5   10.3   N.A.
DOMESTIC AGRICULTURE                  75.2   67.1   85.7   82.2   81.4
ROOT CROPS                          34.8   42.4   43.6   42.2   N.A.
OTEMR PRIMARY PRODUCTS              40.4   44.7   42.1   40.1   N.A.
LIVESTOCK AND HRNTING                 46.1   48.6   44.2   43.7   48.9
PORESTRY AND LOGGING a/                1.2    1.5    2.0    1.8   11.3
FISHING                                8.1    8.1    8.1      9.4   N.A.
_-------.----------------------------------_------------_-----------__-----
a1 1987 figure includes Fishing.
SOUICE. Statistical Institute of Jamaica.



-44-
Annex It
Page 5 of 5
JAMAICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Value of Selected Agricultural Extorts. 1984-88
(In US$ Million)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
TRADITIONAL EXPORTS:
Sugar                                 66.0   49.8   62.3   73.8   88.6
Bananas                                1.5    4.2    9.1   18.9   15.7
Citrus (fresh fruit)                   1.2    1.6    2.4    2.6    4.6
Coffee                                 8.7    7.5    6.7    8.3    9.2
Cocoa                                  4.0    4.5    5.3    4.6    4.0
Pimento                                6.6    6.7    5.4    4.9    5.1
NON-TRADITIONAL EXPORTS:
Vegetables (1)                         3.3    4.3    3.7    2.8    3.3
Tubers (2)                             5.3    6.0    7.8    9.4   10.0
Fruits (3)                             1.5    2.8    2.0    1.0    0.7
Ornamentals (4)                        1.6    1.8    2.7    5.7    3.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------__----
SOURCEs Planning Institute of Jamaica.
(1) Tomatoes, sweet peppers, okra, pumpkins, cucumbers, other vegetables.
(2) Yams, sweet potatoes, cassava, dasheens, eddoes.
(3) Avocados, melons, other fruits.
(4) Cut flowers, foliage and live plants.



-45-
A. Statemot of an  Loanm as of 1eptow   Of$ 26
-IU g  l I I lon--
Credit      Fiscal                                                                       (Lea. Camellation)
lb.          Y"ea    Boroer            Puepo.                                           S             Undiebug
$4 Loan  flly diebelsed I/                                                            613.5
t0-Jim      1662    Jamaca                 to Epet           Zoe                        13.5               .3
21iI-,      19o2    Jmica               1r 0.5                                                              .2
2 -i        19io     Jama Hicay                                                         15.0               2.4
22f4-it     1963    jamaic             Indutril Credit                                  15.1               1.0
2t1-1       is"      Jamaica           Urban Trnport                                    16.6               9.0
2414Jl       19i4"    JamiCa           Eert C                                           15.1               0.2
2422-JI     1964    Jamlea             Mutr Suppy  nd so8 _ao T.A.  halliitlOn           9.0               8.8
2423-J      196      Jamaica           Public Adelsetratiom 3f"                          4.5               6.1
29-Ji       1965    J ie                e    ed Th l  e    _Lem                          9.0               2.8
2SJlm       196?    J tica             $*aC   R aII ltatien                             34.0              21.5
351-iM      196l    Jamice             Po"latlo  and Helft%                             1J.0               9.1
-J          196?    Jamaica            Fourth Poer                                      19.9              13.9
2mJI-I      1963     Jaice             Educetios                                         6.3               s.g
32-JI       199      Jmaica            Clare  Almin Production                          15.9              16.0
U11_-I      196w     JmIoC             Social Sector boamat 3_0.                                          30.0
Tout  (net of canclC ltI*o e)                           8S.t
of whlic  has been paid                                 216.0
Total amo outstanding                                   .as.s
30sunt Sold                                      1.6
of which be be  repid                          1.       0.6
Total ke Held by Bak                                    636.5
Total llndishered                                                         119.5
1i  Including a telee   nticatile loa sad  In 1967 to the Jamice  Telephone c_speny
an the Third Expert Dvlopment tn  to"n m   a   1b63 sbeunly canc elled.
B. Statement of IFC 1sve_tmno  s of Soptebr     196I
-      Miltlin-----
Inveeent  Fle                                           Typo of
Number       Year    Btorowe                                  es                       Lon   Equity    Total
-   -~               -                                                                        -_
m         193    Jamica Pro-Via Ltd.                  Cemnt & Contr. Miterl           0.2      -        0.2
13U      1969    P _u Htle    Jamica                  Tourie                          2.2      6.7      2.9
542       196       t   ndic  le  C_pany              Glee Cetamorn                   2.8      -        2.3
69       192    Jaeic  Flour Mll.ts Limited           Food end Feed Proe_sno          *.0      -        5.0
616      1336    The Folceo Fund                      Cuarant  Fc ility               2.6      -        2.6
161       197 w    Ebtern Banan  Esteta  Ltd. 1/      Food and Food Procoeing         3.7      0.4      4.1
9SW      1967    St. Mary*s DPAuan  EWtater Ltd.      Food and Food Procoing         3.7      0.9      4.8
1120      1690     EagoI                               Develomenot Flnace              5.0      -        6.0
1180      196    seurity Bink                          Dop nt pi np A                    0      -       
1131      1966    MUtual E101                          Deelopepnt Fineace              6.0      - 
Tetal Groo Commltmonte                                            34.7      2.0     U.?
Lees Canc  latione, Teraination., Participation
Sales nd Repaymnt.                                             13.6      0.4    14.2
Total comitente now held by IPC                                            2 9       1.e     22.5
Total Undlebureed (Itnluding Participents)                                 3N.2      0.2    16.4
1/ Znvoetmentea*totellyc_noulled.



*ANE  IV
JAM&ICA - Airicultural Sector Adiustment Loan
#Aricultural Polley Refocus under Previous Adiustment Loans
Heasures Agreed Under Previous
Policy Areas                             Adiustme_t Ooerations                            Status
1. Land Uset                           1. Land Use:                             1. Land Uses
Land issues Identified at the start   (i) Satisfactory progress towards         (L) Under SAL 1. an inventory
of the structural adjustment           developing a policy for the sale or    of Govt.-owned land was carried
program were as follows:               long-term  lease of Govt. lands to       out and a policy was formulated
agricultural producers was a            to transfer these lands to the
1)  where were thousands of mall       condition of second tranche release    private sector. Under SAL 1I.                    j
farters occupying Government lands    in SAL I.  Satisfactory progress in    the transfer of Govt. land got
under precarious tenancy               the implemetation of the GOJs            under way, with about 7,000
co_ditions.  At the same time,         program  for the sale or lease of        acres bhving been either sold
tbere were a number of larger          Govt--owned land wad a condition of    or leased by September 1983.
tracts of Government land available second tranche release in sAL I.
(mebiy es-sugpr lands) suitable
for coomercial farming lying idle.
(it) Data on land use capability       (ii) Satisfactory progress towards a   (li) A land resturce inventocy
wis scant.                             detailed land resource inventory was  was virtually completed during
a condition of second tranche           SL I.
release in SAL I.
(iii)  atrming of hillsides was       (111) Satisfactory progress towards    (iil) Under SAL I the Ministry
causung widespred soil erosion.        the developm_t of a progrm_ of           of Agriculture devloped a
works (terracing, etc.) for the         revised, lower-cost soil
control of erosion in hillside farms   conservat ion schom  for
was a condition of second trancbe       hillsides. Later asossaents
relesse in SAL I.                       of tble progra ehave not beon                  c



Measures Agreed Under Previous
Pollcy Areas                              Adiustuent Operations                         Statu
very favorable. however. and
tbe Govern ent Is no testing a
differeat strategy for hillside
soil conservation whicb foeuse
on assisting femers In
changing crop patterns.
2. &aMort Marketing Or naizations      2. E*Ds                                  2. 3Os
Before SL.I was signed In March         Under SAL  , acn audit
In the 1970s. DIGs for coffee,         1982. the Govwt. had formally           management of the pimento mE
cocoa, citrus end pimento were set    temniated the monopsony powers of        (the Export Division of the
up and given sonopsony powers over    EN)s for citrus, coffee and cocoa,    Ministry of Agriculture,
external sales of these products.      and it bad completed management          actually) was corried out as
TbM DIos soon becme overextended       audits for the sea _ IGs. As a           agreed. The studies of the
in tbeir functions and exerted a       condition of second tranche release,   marketing and non-marketing
depressing effect on producer          satisfactory progress was to be made   activities of the citrus,
prices.                                In the implementation of a               coffee. cocoa and pimeto EgsO
management audit of the pimento 3SW,  were also carried out after
and of studies related tos (a) the      some bntial delays In
orderly reduction of non-marketing      recruiting the consultants.
activities of the Ego* and (b) ways
to increase the efflciency of tbeir
export marketing activitie.
Under SAL II, a condition for           EUder SAL II, the Govt. took a
release of the second tranche was         _ ber of decisions on the
satisfactory progress In the            basi of the studies conducted
implementation of a plan to            uwder MAL I. as follows.
rationallse the marketing ad non-        li) the no-marketing functioos
marketig activities of the 300.         of the Ms would be divested,
responsible for coffee, cocoa,.         with the reearch and extension
citrus and pimento.                     services to be taken over by
the Ministry of Agriculture,
the supply of Inputs left to              o
the private sector, and growing



Measures Agreed Under Previous
Policy Areas                              Adiustaeot Operations                          Status
projects to be transferred to
the Jamaica National Investment
Co. (nov the National
lnvestuent lank of Jamaica.
MlIU) for their oventual sa1
to private investors; ad
(ii) regarding the marketing
functions, prices to farmes
would be henceforth set
according to predetermiaed
price formulas. Actual actions
regarding (i) were completed
undor SAL IlI (see below),
while (ii) required a prewious
study to provide the analytical
basis for the formnulaa.
Under SAL III, tbere were a dated       The dated covenant under
covenant and a condition of second      SAL III on fanegate pricing
tranche release related to these        formulas could not be aet on
four &ODs.  Tbe dated covenant          tine because of delays in
stated that the COJ was to adopt no    reeuiting the consultaats to
later than February 28, 1985,           do the necessary study (bwich
efficient pricing formalas to set       was completed in June 195).
the fanigate piices to be paid by       The ank waived this condition
the coffee, cocoa and pimento 31O9.    I  tho fr amOrk of SAL III and
The condition of second tranche         agreed with the GOJ to
release was that satisfactory           Introduce it as a condition for
progress sbould have been me"d in       bard presentation of the tben
the GOJs progr* to restructure          proposed Secand Sugar
these four 30. along tho following    Rehabilitation Project (Loan
lines: (i exclusion of rosearch,        2850-JO). This con4ition was
extension and otber non-marketing       subsequently mt. With regprd              *
to the divestment by SWs of
their non-marketing activities,           o 2



Measures Areed UWder Previous
Policy Areas                              Adlustment Onerations                          Status
activities from the areas of            this was fully carrtid out
competence of the 00sm  and             before second tranche release.
(ll) deregulation of the externa        Use CCJ also lowered the
marketing actirities of these           siium r*equirements for tbe
organititons.                           attaliment of direct exporter
status by private producers of
coffee, pimento And citrus
effective May 1905 (the
originl requirements had bee"
set in March 1983. shortly
after the completion of
disbursements under $AL I).
3. Praedial Larceny                    3. Prsedial LSrceny                      3.  Preedial Larceny
Crops in certain areas were being      Before SUL I was signed, the  OJ had   7he Goveronent did set up, as
stolen by large-scale operators,       approved new legislation to combat       agreed under SAL I, a system of
praedial larceny. including the         agricultural wardens to police
application of stiffer penalties by    selected rural areas.   owever,
the courts and simplfied judicial       the Impact of this program does
procedures.  SAL I included a dated    not seen to have been very
covenant that the GO0  would            pronounced.  Prsedial larceny
introduce a system of agricultural      is reportedly still a serious
wardens for policing selected areas    problem In some ares.
by December 1902.



Measures Agreed Under Previous
Policy Areas                              Adiustment Operations                          Status
4. Sunar industr                       4. Susar Industry                        4. Sugar Industry
By the tie of the signing of SAL I   By the time of the signing of Sl,   SAL Is The envisaged furthet
in 1982. sugar production had been    the G0J had formlated an action           increase ln the domestic price
steadily declining for about a         program  for the rehabilitation of       of sugar did not occur because
decade (output in 1980 was nearly      the sugar industry, Including the        the Bank agreed with COJ during
401 below the 1970 level). This        abolltion of the sugar cane workers'   supervlsion that an increaso
decline reflected the inefficlent      cooperatives, the decision to close    was not warranted at the time.
operation of the nationalized sugar   down two Govt.-owned sugar factories   The management audit of the
factories as well as falling cane      and to divest others, and an            National Sugar Company an  the
production resulting from the          increase in the domestic price of        joint review of the action
dlsuesbenment of the sugar estates    sugar. Conditions under SAL I             program were carried out, and
ad the creation of sugar cane          included a further increase In the       specific actions were taken
workers" cooperatives that did not    domestic price of sugar, a                under SAL II.
functlon satisfactorily                managemeot audit of the National
Sugar Company and a joint review by
the Bank and the 00J of the sugpr
industry action program by
November 1982.
Under SAL II, a condition of second    SAL II  The GOJ took several
tranche release was satisfactory        measures to rationalize the
progress in the iwplementation of       public portion of the sugar
the GO's prograu  for the               Industry In line with the
rehabilitation of the sugar             agreed action programs
Industry.                               (1) manaeme_nt was
decentrallzed and separate
boards were established for
each factorys (ii) the ceontral
staff of the National Supar
Company was cut by balfg and
(iII) three factorins were
closed in July 1954.



Measures Agreed Under Previous
Policy Areas                              Adiustment Oserationl                          Status
Under SAL Il. a condition of second   SAL Illt By the time of second
tranche release was satisfactory        tranche release in may 1084, a
progress in improving the financial    foreign management teaem (from
and managerial performance of the       Tate  nd Lyle Ltd.) had been
GOJ's portion of the sugar industry,   appointed for a ten-year tlog
There was also a dated covenant that   to manse the From. monymmak
the GOJ would adopt no later than       and Bernard Lodge factories and
February 28. 198S, an efficient         estates, which constituted
pricing formula to determine the        almost the totality of the
sugar farngate price to be paid.        public portion of the sugar
industry. Compliance with the
dated covenant was waived and
became a condition of Board
presentation of the Second
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 2850-JM).
5. Banana Industry                     5.  Banana Industry                      S. Banana Industry
By the time of the signing of §ALI   By the time of the signing of SAL t.   SAL Is The management audit of
it  1982, the banana industry had      the GOJ bad formulated an action        the Banana Company was carried
been declining for a number of         program for the rehabilitation of        out. At the sme time, steps
years.  The decline had affected       the industry.  SAL I included as a      were taken to improve support
all key production indicatorss         condition the performance of a           services to banana farmers  nd
output, yields, quantity exported      management audit of the Banana           to increase the supply of. and
and quality. Exports declined from   Company.                                   financing for, farm inputs.
136,000 t in 1970 to 22.000 t in
191. Causes of the decline were        SAL IIs Conditions for the release       SAL Its The restructuring plans
th  mismnagement of the                of the second tranche related to the   for the banana industry  nd the
Gowt.-owned Banan Company of           banJa  industry were satisfactory        Banana Company were approved
I e |
'-4
C4



Measures Agreed Under Previous
Policy Areas                              Adiustment Operations                          Status
Jamaica Ltd., deterioration of         progress ins (i) the implementation    and a start was made in their
cultivation practices, insufficient   of recouendations made in the              plementation.  Restructuring
protection against plant disease,      management audit of the Banana          was continued under SAL III.
poor methods of fruit handling, and   Company, and (ii) the preparation
the effects of the 1974 Hurricane      and implementation of the GOJ's plan
Allen.                                 to restructure the banana industry.
SAL Ill As a dated covenant of SAL    SAL IXs Actions taken were as
III, the GOJ was to adopt no later      follows. All the non-marketing
than February 28, 1985, an efficient   activities of the Banana
pricing formula to determine the        Company were either transferred
farmBste price to be paid by the DOD  to the Ministry of Agriculture
responsible for banana exports.  As    (research, extension) or
a condition of second tranche           divested (boxing plants.
release, SAL Ill required that a        growing projects).  The Banana
revised plan for the restructuring      Company itself was closed in
of the Banana Company should have       March 1985. Since th'.a
been completea.                         marketing of bananas has been
undertaken by the Banana export
Company (BECO), a producer-
controlled corporation of mixed
private-public ownership. The
dated covenant on fan Bate
pricing was waived and becam a
condition of Board presentatio
of the Second Sugar
Rehabilitation Project (Loan
2850-JM).
o 14



Measures Agreed Under Previous
Policy Areas                              Adtustment Onerations                          Status
6. Food Subsidies                      6.  Food Subsidies                       6.  Food Subsidies
Tne COJ. through JCTC. operates a      Under the Public Enterprise Sector       The study on food subsidles was
progrm_ of generalined food            Adjustment Loan (Loan 2849-JK), the    carried out, but it was not
subsidies covering several Imported   GOJ comitted itself to carry out a    considered satisfactory by the
foodstuffs.  It has been suggested    study of JCTC's policies and              Sank or the Covernment.   he
by the bank and others that a more    operations and of the existing            Bank agreed nevertheless to
targeted approach in providing         targeted food assistance programs       release the second tranche of
nutritional assistance to the          with a view to detemining the most    the loan after the Governent
poorest seg ets of the population    efficient method of providing food        requested Bank assistance to
would be preferable, especially        subsidies to the poor. as a             conduct a follow-up study On
smine several such targeted            condition of second tranche release.   the same subject.
programs already exist (food
stamps, school lunch, etc.).   heo
6OJ has resisted the suggested
course of reform. bowever. arguing
that the sixe of the population
requring noutritional assistance is
so large that the generalized food
subsidies are the most practical
mans of providing nutritional
support to all those In need of It.
co!
a



_54_                        AANNU V
Page I of 7
JAMAICA - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY STATEMENT
Introduction
1.       The present Statement enunciates the guiding principles, planned
courses of policy and institutional reform, and Governmental programs for
the development of the agricultural sector in the coming years. The
Statement is consistent with the actions agreed to by the Government in the
context of the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, to be financed
by the World Bank, with expected cofinancing from the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan and the fWI (Federal Republic of Germany).
2.       A sound macroeconomic framework, emphasizing viable fiscal
balances, will constitute an important element of overall Government
policy. To this end, the Government's FY89 economic program already
embodies deficit reduction measures, including increases in the payroll tax
for education, the passenger departure tax, and the tax on telephone calls.
During PY89, moreover, the Government intends to replace various indirect
taxes with a general consumption tax of the value-added type, which should
raise tax revenue over time. The operations of public enterprises are to
be strengthened through adequate price policies, including any necessary
tariff adjustments, and improved management. In FY89, the cost of the
generalized food subsidies has been limited through price Increases, aiming
to phase out the transfers to the Jamaica Comuodity Trading Corporation
(JCTC), the agency operating the subsidy program, over the next two fiscal
years; the billing and collections of the electricity company --which had
been disrupted by the recent hurricane-- have been regularized; and a plan
is underway to improve the collections of the National Water Commission.
Finally, capital expenditure plans of some public enterprises have been
streamlined, and steps taken to strengthen the financial reporting and
monitoring of the major public sector entities. It is expected that these
measures would result in reduction of the overall public sector deficit
from the hurricane-induced equivalent of about 13S of GDP in FY88 to
between 4 to 5 of GDP in FY89. For the medium term, the Government will
continue to undertake necessary measures to further reduce the public
sector deficits.
General Princinles Informina the Policies towards Aariculture
3.       The Government will support, through its policies and programs,
the development of a modern and efficient agricultural sector. As it has
been the case in recent years, there will be a continuing recognition of
the principle that the responsibility for investment and production in the
sector lies primarily with the private sectort direct Government
participation in production of agricultural products will be very selective
and restricted to special cases in which it may appear desirable to
demonstrate a new technology or introduce a new product. Even in these
cases Government direct involvement in production would be for a limited
time. Consistent with this principle, the Government will continue to
pursue its present program of divestment of agricultural enterprisos (pars.
20 below).



-55-                     ANNEX V
Page 2 of 7
4.       In line with the goal of achieving efficient growth in
agriculture, the Government will follow sound pricing policies, avoiding
direct intervention in the markets of outputs and inputs except as it may
be justified by instances of market failure or emergency situations. It
will rtrive to promote the most efficient allocation of resources between
agriculture and other sectors of economic activity, as well as within
agriculture.
5.       The Government recognizes the potentially important contribution
of foreign investors to the development of agriculture, and will encourage
their activities. Especially welcome will be foreign companies which can
make a contribution to advancing the country's technology and widening its
access to export markets. Joint ventures with local investors will also be
encouraged.
6.       The development of agriculture will have to be consistent with a
sound management of the environment. This is recognized by the Government
as a fundamental principle of efficiency in growth, as well as a matter of
inter-generational justice which cannot be compromised. The Government
will make every effort, through legislation and other actions, to ensure
the preservation of the natural resource capital of the country.
7.       The Government will also strive to achieve strong and efficiently
managed public sector Institutions in agriculture, in order to be able to
provide adequate services in the areas of technology generation and
transfer, plant and animal disease control, irrigation, and other areas
where the existence of externalities or the need to assist disadvantaged
groups of the population (especially small farmers) justify an active role
for the Government.
8.       The above are the general principles which will guide the
formulation of Government policies in agriculture and the allocation of
scarce Government revenues to priority programs in the sector. The
directions of policy in specific areas pertinent to agriculture are spelled
out in paras. 9 to 24 below.
Specific Policies
9.       Pricing Policies.  The Government recognizes the need for further
rationalization of the trade regi$e in agriculture. The present situation,
where quantitative import restrictions exist for a number of agricultural
products, and high and highly variable levels of protection exist for a
wide range of other agricultural products through the use of reference
prices and protective stamp duties, does not provide a sound incentive
framework for the development of agricultural production (since it distorts
domestic relative prices of tradeable goods vis-a-vis relative border
prices). Thus it is the Government's policy to move gradually to an open
agricultural trade regime without quantitative import (or export)
restrictions and with import tariffs that are fairly low on the average and
contained within a reasonably narrow range.



-56-                      hNNKX V
Page 3 of 7
10.      As a first step towards this goal, the Government will eliminate
in FY89 the system of reference prices and all quantitative import
restrictions for the protection of mall farmers, replacing these implicit
protective devices with explicit import tariffs that will provide an
approximately equivalent degree of nominal protection to the domestic
production of the products in question (i.e., all products presently
subject to reference prices or quantitative import restrictions for the
protection of small farmers). Then, over a period of about five years,
tariffs on these products will be gradually reduced until reaching the
levels of the CARICOM's common external tariffs (CRT). The first round of
tariff reductions would take place in 1990, and upon these reductions no
tariff would exceed 1OOS of the CIF value of each product. The subsequent
rounds of reductions would be as follows: (a) for products whose tariffs
would be phased down over five years (all products except those listed in
(b) and (c) below)s in 1991, tariffs would be reduced to a maximum of 802;
in 1992, to a maximum of 602; in 1993, to a maximum of 451; and in 1994, to
the CET;  (b) for products whose tariffs would be phased down over three
years (animal feeds)s in 1991, tariffs would be reduced to a maximum of
702, and in 1992, to the CET; and (c) for products whose tariffs vould be
phased down over seven years (potatoes, tomatoes, finions, carrots, sweet
peppers, cabbage, red kidney beans, and peanuts)t in 1991, tariffs would be
reduced to a miximum of 90t; in 1992, 80X; in 1993, 701; in 1994, 601; in
1995, 501; and in 1996, to the CRT.
11.      The efficiency of pricing of agricultural goods will be further
improved by the reduction of subsidies (Generalized Food Subsidies) in the
sales of foodstuffs imported by the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation
(JCTC). This would be done by eliminating over the next two fiscal years
all transfers to JCTC from the Central Government budget or any other
public sources (para. 2 above). For FY90, such transfers would not exceed
J$130 million, or about one-half of their amount in FY89, and they would be
equal to zero in FY91. At the same time, the Government will strive to
improve the coverage and effectiveness of targeted programs of food
subsidisation.
12.      JCTC Imnort Monopolv.  After phasing out the transfers to JCTC,
the Government will re-examine the question of JCTC import monopoly of the
foodstuffs handled by that organization.
13.      Aaricultural Credit Policies.   The Government intends to preserve
the present institutional arrangements in agricultural credit, whereby no
direct lending to farmers is extended by any Government institutions but
medium and long-term rediscount lines of credit for agriculture are made
available to qualified private financial intermediaries through the
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB). The Government will, however, move to
reduce the existing differentials between market interest rates and
interest rates on ACB-rediscounted loans in order to ensure an efficient
allocation of investment resources in agriculture. The exception to this
goal will be loans to small farmers with up to 25 gross acres of land,
where the policy will be to maintain a differential relative to medium and
large farmers.



-57-                          ANNUE V
Page 4 of 7
14.      More specifically, for medium and large farmers with more than 25
gross acres of land. In the short term the interest rate on ACB-
rediscounted loans vould be increased from 142 to 151 (which is the rate
now being charged in loans rediscounted by the National Development Bank
for industrial sector firms). Before second tranche release, this rate
would be set equal to a market indicator calculated as the average yield of
Treasury Bills in the previous twelve months. Thereafter, the rate would
be revised for new loans at the end of every quarter, following the same
procedure. For small farmers with up to 25 gross acres of land, the
interest rate on ACB-rediscounted loans would remain at its present level
of 111 until December 31, 1989. This is about 7 percentage points below
the average of Treasury Bills' yields in the period October 1988 to
September 1989. From December 31, 1989, onwards, the interest rate for
small farmers would be linked to the yield on Treasury Bills, keeping a
constant differential of seven points. The interest rate would be revised
for new loans every three months, at the end of each quarter, based on the
average yield on Treasury Bills for the previous twelve months.
15.      The ACB would also observe henceforth the following limits on the
loans it rediscounts. For small farmers, each loan would be subject to a
maximum amount of US$5,000 equivalent, with a maximum of US$7,500
equivalent outstanding at any time for any given borrower. Above these
limits, small farmers could borrow additional funds, rediscounted by the
ACB, but with the terms applicable to medium and large farmers. The
maximum percentage of the cost of a given project to be financed by ACB
would not exceed 80S. For medium and large farmers, the ACB would finance
up to 601 of the cost of any given project.
16.      The Governmwnt will continue to target 402 of the loanable funds
available through the ACB for lending to small farmers. In order to
facilitate the channeling of these funds, qualified financial institutions
in addition to PCBs, such as credit unions and commercial banks, will
henceforth be allowed to rediscount loans to small farmers with ACB. To
facilitate this, the present legislative constraints on interest rates of
credit unions will be removed. The ACE will also take additional measures
to control PCB arrears, by the introduction of a system that calls for the
automatic suspension of disbursements to any PCB whose arrears of more than
120 days represent more than 20S of the outstanding due at the end of any
given quarter.
17.      Export Marketina Organizations.  Government policy in the area of
export marketing arrangements for traditional crops will continue to be
tailored to the particular circumstances of each crop. For sugar, bananas,
coffee, and pimento present arrangements are satisfactory and no changes
are contemplated in the near future. For citrus and cocoa, on the other
hand, present arrangements are unnecessarily restrictive of private
enterprise and do not constitute a sound basis for the development of these
crops. The Government will move to terminate the de facto monopoly
exercised by the Cocoa Industry Board on cocoa exports. Any private
individuals or firms meeting the normal legal requirements for all
commercial and industrial activities will be allowed to engage in the
processing and exporting of cocoa without any special requirements imposed
on them. The Government through the Cocoa Industry Board will retain a
function of quality control over the output of private cocoa exporters.



-58-                         ANEX V
Page 5 of 7
Likewise, in the case of citrus fruit and products, the Government will
move to terminate the present system of licensing of private exporters and
processors. Any individuals or firms meeting the normal legal requirements
for all commercial and industrial activities will be allowed to engage in
the unrestricted purchasing, processing and exporting of citrus fruit and
products. The Citrus Growers Association and its subsidiaries will be
considered by the Government to be on an equal footing with other private
participants in the industry and will no longer have any regulatory
functions assigned to it by the Goverament.
18.      Cost Recovery in Irriiation.  The Government recognises the need
to increase cost recovery in public irrigation systems. To this effect, a
new tariff schedule which progressively increases tariffs leading to 501
recovery of operation and maintenance costs by FY92 will be adopted for all
existing public irrigation systems. Specifically, the targets for recovery
of operation and maintenance costs are as followes for FY89, 122; for
FY90, 211; for FY91, 32S; and for FY92, 502. For new systems, tariff
schedules will provide for 1001 recovery of operation and maintenance costs
within a reasonable period of time after completion of the works. Fram an
institutional point of view, the Government will continue to strengthen the
recently established National Irrigation Commission which will gradually
absorb all existing independent irrigation authorities, thus centralizing
in one agency the operation and maintenance of all public irrigation
systems. The long-run goal, however, will be to transfer full
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of public irrigation
systems to user associations, thus terminating all Government subsidies to
the operation and maintenance of the systems.
19.      Public Direct Investment and Divestment in Aariculture.  The
Government will continue its policy of divesting public land suitable for
agriculture to farmers through its two ongoing programss (i) divestment
through long-term lease of commercial-size plots, implemented by Agro 21,
and (ii) divestment through outright sale of small-size plots to poor
farmers or landless peasants, Implemented through the Ministry of
Agriculture. At the same time, the Government will continue to implement
its program of land titling for small farmers. The first phase of the
program, by the end of which about 12,000 titles would have been issued, is
expected to be completed by the end of FY90. The second phase, during
which an additional about 24,000 titles will be issued, is expected to be
completed by FY94.
20.      The Government will also continue its program of divestment of
agricultural and agroindustrial enterprises. In FY89, it will strive to
complete the negotiations for the divestment by sale or lease of at least
five small agricultural/agroindustrial companies with assets valued at less'
than US$2 million equivalent each, and at least one company with assets in
excess of that amount. If negotiations cannot be satisfactorily completed,
the Government would take suitable alternative actions to dispose of the
assets of the corresponding enterprises. For FY90, it will also strive to
divest, by sale or lease, enterprises with a combined asset value of at
least 501 more than the combined asset value of companies divested In FY89.
For FY9$, the target will be to exceed the asset value of FY90 divestments
by 501. If the targets for PYs 90 and 91 cannot be met, alternative
measures similar to those agreed on for FY89 will be taken.



-59-                          ANNEX_ V
Page 6 of 7
21.      A&ricultural Suunort Services.  The Government will strive to
strengthen the capability of the Ministry of Agriculture (1(0) to provide
needed services in support of agricultural development. Specifically, the
Government intends to restructure its agricultural research and extension
services as a matter of priority. Small farmers will receive special
attention in the provision of support services by MOA (larger farmers
usually rely to a larger extent on privately-provided support services).
Within the population of small farmers, special efforts would be targeted
to those farmers affected by the reforms to the agricultural importation
regime (para. 10 above).
22.      In addition, there is a need for MOA to adopt more up-to-date
management tools; its functions may need to be streamlineds and some
measures should be taken with regard to persistent staffing difficulties
for key positions In the ministry. In order to define with greater
precision the actions needed in this area, a Corporate Management Plan for
1(A is to be prepared by the Government with Bank assistance in the contest
of the preparation of a proposed Second Administrative Reform Project. The
Government will also study the feasibility of establishing a special scheme
(the Senior Executive Scheme) to recruit and retain highly qualified
profes'-tonals to key Government positions including some in mO0.
These various initiatives are expected to substantially enhance MOA's
capabilities and effectiveness in supporting the development of
agriculture.
23.      Protection of the Environment.  The Government will put in motion
a concerted and targeted effort to stop and reverse the process of
degradation of the country's watersheds, and address other important
problems of natural resource conservation and management. To this effect,
a new statutory agency, the Natural Resources Conservation Authority, will
be established with appropriate mandate and powers within the Ministry of
Development, Production and Planning. Functions of the Authority will
includes
i) conducting studies of issues related to watershed
degradation/protection and other important environmental issues, and on the
basis of such studies formulating policy recommendations to Government
decision-makers;
ii) serving as a repository of information on all aspects of
natural resource conservation;
iii) formulating plans of action and programs of public investment
to address degradation of natural resources;
iv) identifying sources of funding, including external assistance,
to finance such programs; and
v) coordinating the implementation of the programs through
contracting with suitable public and private entities.



-60-               ~~AN=  !
-60-                       Page 7 of 7
24.      A second area of Goveroment concern in relation with the
protection of the environment is the use (and abuse) of chemical pesticides
and herbicides. To address this concern, the Government will conduct,
through a qualified Independent agency, a study of chemical pesticides and
herbicides use, policies and regulatory arrangements. A plan of action to
implement the recoumemdations of the study would be prepared upon
completion of the study.



JAMAICA
ARICUL1URAL SECTOR AJUSIMT LOAM
Summar Schedule of Action. ndLer the Progesed L..
Actloes Takes Prior to                      Actios to he Takr  Prior to
Polye                                                Board Preention                               _eced Tra_che Ibloo
1.  AarcwlvturaI Prie.a Poliels
1.1  Aericultural Swo  Real..
The presen eyetm of quentifttlw                The 6overnment bae *mlblnted MI                  The Govrnment sould pt lto effct tem frt
import retrictione, ref.re.e Priae              quatitatiw. Import restrictions for the          step of the scheld _nia rductlon. to
and protective staop dutles for a wide           rf lI farme  aN  the Ne                         tariff rates. no tariff would exceed l
roe. of earicultulral cemoeditles               o    ree ce price  for agricaltural nd           atter tbUse redction.
proVide hTh lel of Protection for               *rotndtril product. At the  _arn
de= tic produ . Thie resvitr In                 t_ it hIt   itroduced a amw scled    of
high price  for cea*etrs, does not                               duties for tem
pro  ot dteicient resourc  Iloction in          pre tto apply im_diately folloeing
the agriculturel euctor sa  den not             the eliastion ot quantltatve import
encourage producers to Improve wretrtlonls and of reference pries.
predustivity.                                   Such e riwport tariftf he bee est en
s to provide a leve oft oel"l
protectien appioxuimtly eaI eo that
preatling Is tbh  prwioue re"im  (I.e.,
before the eliiatinblo of quantitative
import restrictions end reference
price.). The Goveruan nee else* 
'                ~~~~~provided a timetableof euheebquent annual
reducions    suh tarff rtes, leadn
over a period ot five year.tor meet
It_., ad of oeithe  one thee ormes
for aeegeetd its tOe a situatio
In wheh tariff  ne  woud *11 bo equa
to the  correspapdng CARICOMI  be o
external tariffs.
d |
P4
O <



Actions Takeo Prior to                       Actions to ha Take. Prior to
Policl  Area                                       Board Preseation                               Second Trec  bles_.
1.2 jCtC Price. Policies
The Geven t opera    prort   Gevmnt intrdced lar                                                   for FT", Central Gsvsrint trnafera Ito JCTC
SemI-rawe Food  uid1" (OFS) throuh               Icree  In the prices of foodatufft                 to belp detray the cot of thWS DFo5om
tha JCTC. la thi proMram, JCTC                   sold b  JCTC,i ordr to lioIt the                 ooId he k4 St Do MrS,    JA 1 -1 IIo.
maOely '"mutton right of a rg                    fitcal to" of the  fS progrm. The
of foodstus, which It selle to                O o           is a1so comeittod to
dttributors at bolow cost. Such                  cmleely  liinato tranfers to JCTC by
pIcino pollcy to dttorttonary.                   FY1  which would further constrain the
Ceor   r   V th  WFS is n in titcient            fical cost of the CFS prram.
Wvehicl for aubsidising the food
consumptlon of tho poor, a most of the
beetw Its of the progrm are captured by
the mon-poor.
2. LArleultural Credit Policies
2.1 Interest Rate Structure
Efficiency in the allocation ot                  The LCD has Iatroduced the followrg                The LACD ouid Introdues and operate the
Investment reqire  thet tbhre should be          terms for the loan  it rediecountns               following systen for sftlo taiterest rates oan
no interet rato differentialN betwoen            (t) for mediae snd large armnes, dettned           the loan  It rediosoute: (1) for m*dim sad
loan finned by the Government In                as those with more than 2C acrs of Igr              r   fmwer, t   It t  ateld he set
directed credit lins and "rkst          to d, tb    o 1n               r      to am 16"  (Up                                      Tr_ry tIN
Interest este,  tnoopb *  my be                  from 14), nd the  axilm  po g  of                  It t   t       m              o the dat the
jstifted by differential risk   nd               ACB filnaing of the totel coot of a                nn syt,                            would eb
transction coats. Intret rats of                  ives      tnt projct ts now US (dw                rwld of every d                                    C
loos  rediecounted by the ACD, however                            for mlre farm    ,               quarter terewrttor followl  the some
are much lowe  than market rates. The            defined   tos e   with up to 25  cNe  of           procedure; and (ti) tor _I  farmers  the
Govenment  Intends grandualy to rdce             gros loand, the  interest rate continu"e           Interet rat would he sb  t ea to t
thes  interest rate differentials.               to be 115, and each s mel fart r lo n io          average ytetd of Treu    il q 1     the twlvo
no subject to a maximum ef US  _                   monhs previous tf  th  date the ne  sgntbm
"quivalet (down from about U     ism4 £11)        g    loto effct  *inus seve  pintend
with a maxim  of US0,    eqi"valent               would he revised f  s   l     at th ed of
outstadnleg at *ny point in time for aNy          every quarter tbhreetetr tolloing th  e
given borrwer.  Above thes  limits p,cawwre.
mell ftrer could bhrrow additionl 
tfuds, rediscounted by ACD, but with the
ters applicable to medium end forge
farmevr. The ACE would contiue to
fiance up to So of the tot cos  of
ny given smal tfmr ianetment
project.



Actton Taken Prior to                       Actions to be Taken Prior to
Policy Areas                                      bard Presentation                            Second Tranche Releas
2.2 POB Arrears
PC  ashn"  arrars *s a percentoa  of tho        ACB has introdueod a system that calls           Maintenanc by ACB of th. policy ot automtic
mounts duo to ACB are high. This               tor the automatic suspension of                   suspeston of disbursments.
retlcut tn part correspondingly high            lisbureements to any PCB whose arrears ot
areors et PC Bank borrowe.                     more then 120 days reprsont sor than
209 of the Outstanding due at the end of
any given qurter.
1.8   i   Is of RDisti   lonal
of Loans Tor Mamll aromr.
ACe funds for s  11 and a" d um-seid            LCD has modified Its Operating Masual to         The Goveramast would subit to Pan rilmmt
fa res are  vallable only through the           allow access by any quailied coemercial         draft legislation rtorming the Ceeperative
PCB systm. Other institutions ouch as           bank, credit union or other financil             Societio Act, In order to nablo credit
credit unions and comemrcil banke that          Interwdlodrts to the rdliscountlog of            unless to se their ctive nd p_sive
may he willing to lend to these farmrs          loans to *m lI toro r  In the                    interest ra   freely.
are barred from aing thes tfuds.                conditions as such rdiscourting Is
Tlh   restrlctions should o removd              available to the PCB*.
S. Mhrketine of Coo and Citrus
S.1  foo
Tl  Coco lndustry Board contino_  to            The Goveramnt ha approved the issuac             Ameandmant by Pori Ismt of the Cocoa Idustry
horv a de facto monply on coco                  oft n  dsrsgul tion guidelines for coca          Board Act of 196J  in sch *  manr m to
ports, nd wide powe rassIned to it              thatt (1) eliminate the repuirement  o           enable any bgally contitue  privat fIrm
bLtbo *xIstigt legislation to regulate          mIlamum production (currently of SW tons         to e       is th  aonrtest rid purcha_a,
t" *tlo _r"i lag proese for thie                of dry coco per yer) for private                 proc s     sad eprtlng of ce   and coem
crop. Thise    likely to be Inlical to        parties to be able to apply toP   direct         prodoc4e eubjet oaly to the toadord lega
the long-term dwvlop_mt of th  cocoo             xporter license; (11) allow aNy privte          requirem_tor fir   In al  1ectors of the
iadustry,                                      entrepreneur, and not enly rowr  nd               coao y= except that th  bovonemt thr tug
grow r  cooperative, to become * direct          the Cocoe tduwry "osrd weold rt is a
xporter; (ii) eIm-Inate *I xlstting              function of quality cotrol over cooe  outpwt
restrctions     tters ot buyingor                of priate exporte r. Memborship of eoaos
*slling prices In privaO  cocoa                  pod ur  nd proessors In the Cocoa tiadutry
transactions and in trm  of location of          Bord would be velntary end no  s would be
private dirct exporters nd their                 Imposed on nm-osC rs.
supplieor (rowers); and (IV) elIminate
th reettisties that negotiations for the
markettng of cocoa by private direct
exportere munt be conducted through ose
of the COID's agnt.
lug



Action  Taken Prior to                      Actlons to be Taken Prior to
Policy Are nboard Prsen tation                                                                 Second Treneh Rolose.
3.2 Citru
Existing logisation   ve the Citrus            The Goveram_nt has approved the lsuwnoo eAmendmnt by ParIlament of the Agricltteur
Qrower Amisoction th  power to i.1 _            of n  dereglation guid.linde for citrus          Marketing Act of 1944 In order to s*bpilfy the
privt citrus exportoers nd to roeulat          tht: (I) cleorly opeli  the                       pcdure for the Minister of Agriculture to
the mrketino of citrus In a variety of         eIrmtaces  under *hle a *ln  to                   6e ai*ble to  oodify any larketins Plan aubittad
ways. As In athe ae of coa  thee.              expert could be denlod or revoked, and            nde the Act. Amn on t by the Minister of
arreegment are likely to be  inteicsl          the rou rse ava lable to the                     Agriculture of the Citrus Marketing Plan o
to teh d*wei, lo_o ethter citm                 petione; (ii) elImInae  the  ainlim               1040  In  such a anner as to enable any
it the                                         reqtirement an term  of production or               gay constitut d prvte firm  to engage In
acreag  (16,te fleld boxos per year or           tW unretried purehalng  processing*ad
6 anres of plantings) for   groer to be          exportigo e itrus and citrus products
able to beom  a direct exporter;                 sjet only to th  standrd legal
(Itl) allow any privae  entrepreneur, nd         r quiremnt for fir r Il sector ot th
not only growrs to be ablo to  pply for           co&nom.
a Ilcese s *a dIret exporter; *nd
(IV) sake the payent of a cen to the
CM on citrus production voluntary (I.*.,
only for frmers ehoosing to belong to
the COM).
4. Public Divestment Progra_
4.1 Lnd TltlInI
Many f*rer Swh occupy land                                                                       The lesu  of bt leest 2.    titles during
distributed in proious Covbrnant                                                                 FY30.
progreas do not have titls to thes
Isndo.  The Oovermnt io currently
implem nting a project to Iss_ 12ice
titles as a first phas of a longer-ter
porm to addre  lond titling.
4.2 Lard DivstOenC
It Is Gover"Me_t"s policy to divest                                                              The sale of at least 7,   acres in FYM0.
lands sultablo for *frmin. The MCA has
*anonIng progrm to selI land in sma l
per=* to efomr.
4.3 Eateorles Divestment
Th. Covnont h- a pi og   of                                                                      Coplote negotiatmon for the div etMan   of at
div etet of egrliultersl and                                                                     leost five mlIl agricultural and
agroindstelal enrprwis.                                                                          csroidustribl ontorprl  with assets valed
at les than U#182 mlion *q" ivalont ech, a      co
at leas one enterprise with assets in once..
of that amount; or, In eah of the cans  wh
negotiations havo not bee completed, take
alternrtive actions, satisfactory to the Iank,   .%
to dispose of the assets of the corresponding     ,
enterprise.



Actions T.k. Prior to                      Action  to be Take Prior to
P*# Ig  Ares                                     "eerd Prelsnttion                          Second Tranche Rei*s
5. U.s of Chbmical LPetcid
Pesticld u*1 ti widesrad In Jesse.                                                            Cospltiles of the stuy sad agreent o  a
e presec  of pic         eils In                                                              satisactory plan of action to 1sIem.st Its
te sol, feed, potab   sters triver,                                                            t_dtis.
costl waes sa fat  is gull
deimae. The ovrs ha   re
to bee a stdy carried ovi by .
ualilied Indapadent  _ eny to reiew
che_ical pesticides use,  policzIs and
*. Uacreoneuic Pol icies
Curtet macroeconeic pollees are sound                                                        Contine  stisactory m_croeconeic policies
nd co_sistet with waicalutrl                                                                  cosistent with egriculterel pollets.
0'
wIlcl".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
IVIIe
o n



-66-
JAIAUfA
ACULTIAL SECTt LOUS             LOAN
Dbet:to of Agricultural Trads lbot_ Ree
I. 0OOS mREN     IIPRT  ISCEO FU  SMALL FANNER P
Tariff 3t_s    me. of
Nw Tariff   by Second       YIr. to
51N NUMbr   Desolotin                        C uJI y $tSmp Duty    I               Tn. cho          CFt
97611        Potatoes,  ot gs, fresh or
chi I led       -                5.c/k          03          13          1            7
079520       Tomatoes fresh or cbilIled       U.Oc/lakg   096            151        16           7
0701320      Onens fresb  or cbi Uled          8.Oc/lk         3         ism         low          7
070141      String beans f rash or chilld    53.So/IMkg          9SY             lCOY             5
6791423      Pigon pea fresh or chilled    65.Os/ikg    03               156s        1on          5
n7O1560      Carrots fresh or chilled         U.lk/l_k       on3         163           1 E
76579o       Sweet pepper fresh or chillled    8.Oc/8OO1kg    983        16          106          7
679156o      Cabbegs fresh or chilled         51.0e/ 166kg    053        156         i            7
67010W      Pumpkins fresh or chilled         58.Sc/S&g    053           1563s       161          5
agl0o        Leotte freb or chIlled           53S.c/2mkg   on            S1          lII t
s0m211       Carrot raMcook, preserve
Cfroaun) for real 23X                         96Y          1S63        o            5
0762120      String been r/cooked. pieserved
for retall                          23          096X        1           l3           6
67210        Plon pea raw/cooked                26S         05          1563                     5
67t219W     OUber vegsabl e raw/cooked, fro-
zen, packed for retail              26I         053         156         101          5
0762910      Carrots raw/cooked, frozen, not
packed                              253         053         1           11M 
792029       String bean raw/cooked, frosen
npcked                              253         053        1i6s         low          5
0702090      Pigeon pea r/cookod, fre
unpacked                            251         Ogg        1NS         1S           a
070290       Othr vegetables raw/cooked,
frn                                 253         0S          1563        163x         S



-67-                                    AO     I
PNe tof 7
Tariff Ratee    No. of
N. taritff  by Sewond       Yr. to
BTh Number  Dssription                       Custm  uY  Stam  DitY   Rots           Tranche        CET
0978519      Toato preorved not for
limdite consumption                 263         951         low          71          5
0703209      Onion preserved, not fer
Immediate consumption               25X 953                 15S1                     5
0705100      Red iXdney beans dry/abl led1/kin,
split                              32.Uc/leOkg  9o3         15w1                     7
07589        Pieon pea dry/shsllsd/kitn/
*pilt                              U2.8c/lkOg  953          151         195          5
969195       Apples                              265         951         1753        1951         6
1201110      Shelled peanu                       UN    960t              1551       1i            7
1201120     Unshelled peanuts                  - 111         9X          15          IOl          7
15.07       Flixed vegetable oIl, fluid or
solid, crude, refind or purified:
all Items under this hbeding.       1o1         93          loss         7SX         6
2901100      Onion prepared prsrved In
vinegar/acid                        4C5         95          1SO         1ow          5
2001210      Tomtoes I air-tight continr
prepred or preserved by vinegar
or acetic acid                      45t        9on          1001         751         5
291220       Tomtoes not In air-tight containers
prpared or preserved by viner
or acetic acid                      45          95s3        lOlt         751         5
2002110      Tomtoes In air-tight contan re
prepared or prsrved otherwise
than by vinegr or acetic acid       453        9o           1951         lO4i        5
2952120      Tomatoe not in air-tight contai-
ners prepared or presrved other
than by vinegar or acetic acid      451         953         195          70#         6
2092210      Toemto pest. In air-tight
containers                          4           9on         193          lox         6
2992229      Tomato pate not In air-tight
containers                          45         95O        lOX          75S         5
2099110      Peanuts, roasted                    453        9on          155X        1953         5
2104110      Tomto ketchup                        0#1        96X         1511#       193          6
2104120      Tomto samce                         851         Os          1i"         15           6



-68-
Peg S of 7
it. GM065 SUBJCT TO RIOOICE PRICES AND PROTECTIVE STAW   UTA
New        Tariff Rbte    No. of
Custom    Stamp   Ref.PrIce   Torift        by Secon      Yre. to
DTN Number   Deosrt tion                Duty    Duty        IU)         Rates        Trne-         AlT
6202120      Chicken wings               as      063      87e/lb        1SO           low            6
0202140       Chick.n leg quater         163t   0s        41e/lb         163i         11 5
0262140      Chicken legs, thighs A
drmtick.                   151t   05        45e/lb        1663          1              6
0202160      Whole brollrs               153x   753       U5/lb         141X          166            5
405191/02
040t910      Es, other then for
040690        hatching                   13       753    45./do:       1i63           1              I
16.61        Chicken froankfurer.        16X    90X       74./lb        163X           16            I
1620291      Chiceln paste (ominutd
hiecken)                   15X      s63    16c/lb         126X          2OOX           t
6292180      Turkey  ings                0        9053    409/lb        156           108X           5
6262192      Whole turkey.               13       95    , 77/lb         156s          1106           5
0202199      Turkey drumticko            153      06      46c/lb        16il          206            5
0201141      Fresh pork legs             e        90X    65./lb         1563          lOw            6
6201141      Freh pork loins             ex       90X     62c/lb        156e          2061           6
9201148      Fresh pork bellies          as      0o3    56./lb          163X         1i3             5
020114       PIg talls                   ex       90X     56./lb        1563          1063           5
0201149      Fresh pork butts            ex       05      69. /lb       1563          1663           a
0201149      Fresh pork picnics          eX      905      42c/lb        150X          1663           5
0201149      Sides of pork               ex       905     76c/lb        163X          166X           5
0201210      Pork trotter.               ex       053    26c/lb         If"           am             S
0206220
1662120
1662910      Whole ham                   lO       95X     1.06/lb       1563          lo5 
0266220      Smoked pork picalces        163      03    06./lb          163X          103            5
166220
1692910      Boiled ha  bonalss          2s       95X     0/lb          1603           16 



-69-
Page 4 otf
Ns         Taritt Rbte   No. of
C _ste    Stmp 8    ebt.Price    Teritf      by Second     Tre. to
6Th Number    eecristloa                2aiNSteL.             F          Rrte.        Trech.         CVT
0206219
e621l6
1041290      Bacon                     1        s 05       1.0/lb        16S           10             5
1692199
1920         Bola"*                             on          "Oc/lb       16S            16            5
1092100
1902000      Peppeol                   161      053        1.02/lb       iNK           1A             C
16M9210
1602999      Saami                     a Sll                6ft/lb      16S           1i5            6
Other item    Pork cut & pork
out of 12.01 product. (excleding
15.01, 16.01  eotre Is& edible
10.02         orpn.) nt  ctflied
In this column           193      05o           -          1a            163            5
201111        Side  of bet A veal    ex         03   9      0k/lb        16            1O 6
021111        Bet/veal ribs            a        0o3        2.46/lb      1im            1no            5
0291111       Beef/veal boelee         6l       0X         1.41/lb      1is            1#             6
ro_n
i1111        ebst/vel bonele           6as      05         1,22/lb       16a           15             5
top butte
02m1111       Sef/veel top bute
other than benels        ex       0ll         W4e/lb       166s          15             5
Mill         Beet/veal boagle.
bottm round.             as       053         06/lb        15OC          165            5
0201111       Bef mince                a        053         5k2/lb       lux     1001                 a
0291111       etveal fresh
briekeT                  ex      9051         of/lb        165           166            5
0201111       B/veal bonesle
strip loin*              ex       401         2.54/lb      1263          1M             5
02011_        sae/veal tendrloin       Ol       493         8.46/lb      13            165            5
201U12        Bonole  beet triminga             751         80e/lb      1i6            1663           t
9201111       Other beet A ve I  cute
and product (Cxcluding
entrails, edible orgnen)
not epecltied above      ex       96%        -             1565          103            6



-70-
Pae S of ?
NW           rttf Ratee   No. of
Cuetew    Stop    Re.PrIce    Tartiff        by Second      ir. to
81N Number    QsrItaiao                   D"N    ltu&       .         Itenho                           CET
0708200        nlow presevd & oet for
Immediate co_smption    253       963         I$/lb         16"           10             6
M908          Other vegetabl prowisio-
nalty presrve  tn brie,
in sulphur water or tn
ouhe  peservative selu-
tion                     2to      9n           2Mc/lb       1SO           la0            6
0706100       Other rd  kdney ben.  82.o    95              25/lb         10             1*             7
/1*k
4166          Qrape, fre"              43          3         66cJlb      1i6            10              5
2001100       Onions prepared or
preserved in vinegar;
other ontons             4SX     9s3           I8c/lb       16g          1*63           6
2001911       Pickles In ait-tight
contatner.               465      9SX         2So/lb        lO            ?OX            6
2001912       Pickles not In
air-tight containers    453       963         26c/lb        1OOX           BX            6
21*192W       Fruit In air-tight       46X       2SX        2No/lb        156X          13ox            5
containers
2-4100        Citre   pel prserved
by sugar                 463      9SX         Igo/lb        16sm           1033          t
26*5119       Marmalade                453       9S3         15./lb       1560          1*63            5
205120       Citrus pulp              453       9SX         28./lb       16DX          1*63            5
2605910       Guav Jolly               453       9S3         28./lb      1ta XO                         5
200S920       Pineopple Jo             46X       963         26./1b       1603 X          *3            5
2008110       OtSer pe"ut              453       963X        ?/lb        1i6s           16*3            6
2008400       Pineapples, prepared
or proeored              45S     9#X          2Me/lb        156u           1W            a
200US00       Orange, prepared or
presrved                 453      95X         2Ne/lb        16ux          1*53           5
2007110       Orange Juice  onesn.     456       96X        8./lb        156s          1*53            5
2007120       Orange jule  not
contentrated             463      o63         lOe/lb        1563W         l              5
2007180       Grapefruit Jule
concentrated             45t       93 X         lb          1t0           2W             a



Pop 6 of 7
NW        Tarittf Rlft   No. of
Cuee    Stomp   Ref.Prl,e  Tariff           by seeond    Ire. to
9TN Nua1bor   Description              ..hiL    Duty        (Ml        hRates       Treace         CET
200140       Grpefrult Juleo, not
concentrated            46X      on         Iso/lb       15s      N    19             6
266715e      Llm  Juico, conen.       456      KU         25a/lb       1sK           loxt           5
238710       Lime Juce, nob
concentrated            413    9KU           2/lb       1is            1K             6
20720        Pine_pple Juice          453     K           216/lb      1IS            19            5
207616       mixed grapefrult &
orange Juces            453      KU          21o/lb      1SK          1o             5
2387620      Ptneapple-laed Juice   46X        KUx        2s/lb        lux           10            5
Other it"    Other fruit* a  vegeta-
out of       bles  ot elewhere spect-
Chapter. ,  fled Including fruit &
S, 20 A 21    vegetable In any form of
prepratlon but oeluding
currants, raisins A
pmrus                   4                  -             16s                          6
2W2196
2302400      Grain  (not being wheat A
OaS) for mm solely In
the manucture of animl
fed or as anilml feed   Os       56          6os/lb      15K           1635           8
1132123      Corn glutten _l          151      KU         0.C,/clb     Ism           19            8
1192120      Cornmel                  1i       KX         6.3c/lb      15K           19K           3
1202190      Peonut Meal              a6x     91XU0 6.3/lb    15K                    100b          8
1202400      Soy_mel                  s63     KU          6.86/lb   1ta              100           8
129260        Linseed ml              3        KUx        O.f6./lb    15s            1833          a
1202600      Cotton se ld             85      9 KU          6e.k/lb    160X          19K           8
120290       Rape seed "Sl             S3       X         6.6c/lb    1uX             190X          3
120290       Sff lower "mal           853      KU6.06c/lb    150K                    19sK          3
12020O       Suafnlmer seed meal      853     KU          6.86/lb    1S5X            19K"          a
239106O      Hydrel ied feather mal OX         on         6.6c/lb      Ism           10m           8
238100       Weat and bone mal        ex       KU         O o6./lb   1is             100           8
2310101      Poultry by-product melo   os  KUs            6.6/lb   1is               19K           3



-72-
P"og 7 @ 
Ill. GOOD  "AJCT TO max-onC MMCU  AmND a REU AR SM  DUTIES
New       Teriff Rte   No. d
Staw   Re1 .Pric.  Terif"       by Second    Yro. to
Bil Number   Derlitin                cas t". tv  putv        u 3_    Rtz            Trnch.         CIT
0701430      Blackey  psow, fresh
or chilled              US.Sc/IMg   46K   Wtc/lb          eox          CET            1
701620       Cucuaer. fresh or
chilled                 5S.s/tlOks  46K    1k/lb          an           CETI           1
0701m        Other vegetables
fresh or chilled        5U.Sc/lhg  4U        1kc/lb       Go           CET1           1
0702140        elockey  pass, tn
pakages of a kind
sold by retllI            25K       - 40K    2kc/lb       Goa          CETI           1
0702190      Other vegetbles pre-
orvd  by freeing In
package of a kInd
sold by retil             2K          4UK    2kc/lb       anK          CETA           1
07029        Blackey"  p    not In
packaer ef a kind
sold by retaO I           2K4 X   2k/lb                   Ua           CIT1           1
070690       Blackey, Pe" drled,
she led                 52.Sc/IMk   4UK   21c/lb          UK           CETI           1
/ Provided that so agreemet, wlthin CARICOM ha ben reached on the new schedule at CIT rate.. Othewise,
the tariff rot wuld remain et 6s  unti agrement It reached.



-73-
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 4
JAMAICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Details of Public Divestment Procram in Agriculture
1.       This annex describes three programs of divestment of public assets
in the agriculture sector. These programs are in progress and have targets
set for the short and medium term. The programs involve land titling, land
divestment and divestment of Government enterprises.
A. Land Titlina
2.       Under a program begun in 1987, the Government of Jamaica will
issue property titles to about 36,200 small farmers settled on government
lands which were either sold or leased out on a long-term basis over the
past several decades. The first phase of this program, which is supported
by the Inter-American Development Bank and the 1NDP, involves the issuance
of 12,000 titles over a period of four years and sets up the institutional
mechanism to continue the titling process, both for the remaining target
properties and for ordinary titling operations for residential, commercial
and other rural property.
3.       The program provides security of ownership to the beneficiaries,
gives additional accessibility to credit for small farmers, and provides
incentives to farmers to undertake longer term farm investments such as
planting more permanent crops or developing livestock activities. These
benefits, in turn, increase land market values and encourage more
environmentally sound cropping practices.
4.       The first phase of the program has moved somewhat more slowly than
was originally anticipated. In FY87, 2,600 titles were issued. About
2,400 additional titles were issued during PY88. Hurricane Gilbert drew
off personnel resources and severely damaged the Land Administration Office
from where the program is directed. In addition, the process was slowed by
legal complications surrounding a number of properties in the Phase I
targets.   The Government is now in the process of setting up Field
Investigation Teams and a counterpart task force within the Administrator
General's office to expedite handling of these problems.
5.       With these mechanisms in place, the Government expects to process
another 2,000 titles in the current fiscal year (FY89) and the balance of
5,000 in FY90 and FY91, for a total of 12,000 title issuances in the first
phase of the program.
6.       The second phase of the titling program, involving about 24,000



-74-
ANNEX Vill
Page 2 of 4
additional titles, requires that existing infrastructures (roads, water and
electricity) be upgraded to met legal standards prior to issuance of
titles. A study of infrastructure upgrading requirements covering about
half of the remaining lots has been completed. The preparation of final
designs and tender documents should be completed in 1989 and the
construction work will begin in 1990. The total program in Phase II Is
expected to run five years, through 1994. Phase U is funded by EEC.
B. Land Divestment - Sale of Lands to Small Farmers
7.       Since 1982, the Ministry of Agriculture has undertaken a program
of sale by fee simple of idle or underutilized government lands that may be
parcelled into viable units of 3 to 10 acres. The MQA has converted to
freehold nearly 41,000 acres of land which were either idle, occupied by
squatters or previously leased to small farmers.   Average sale price is
about J$2,000 per acre and typical arrangements are 2 1/22 down and 25
years to pay. The administration of the program is through the
Commissioner of Lands.
S.       The Ministry of Agriculture intends to complete the conversion of
properties to freehold by the end of FY91 and estimates that about 36,000
acres remain to be converted from its original holdings of just over 77,000
acres.   The total program, when complete, will benefit over 14,000
individual settlers.
9.       The rate at which these properties can be converted has slowsd
somewhat as the more difficult properties are now being dealt with. Some
have never been surveyed and some have legal problems (e.g., incomplete
transfer to Government). Hurricane Gilbert further slowed work in the
current year. Nevertheless, the Government of Jamaica is committed to
complete the transfer of a total of 48,000 acres to freehold by the end of
PY89.
10.      The Ministry of Agriculture states that a possible impediment to
the meeting of this goal is that it is short of survey instruments to
permit three fully equipped survey teams to work the remaining properties
(one team in each of three regions) and has not yet acquired either
internal nor external support to do so. The MOA estimates that J$100,000
is required to fully equip a survey team.
C. Land Divestment - Free Standing Land. Commercial Plots
11.      A second land divestment program, launched in 1984 by Agro-21,
aimed at putting idle or underutilized government-owned commercial sized
lands Into private hands through long-term leases. This program is now
nearly complete. Agro-21 has leased out 33 properties involving over
27,300 acres and another 3,271 acres have been divested by the National
Commercial Bsank.



-75-
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 4
12.      Agro-21 is in the late stages of completing divestment, through
lease, of an additional 3,830 gross acres of the following properties:
St.Jago/Spring Plains (Western Clarendon) - 3,000 acres
Thetford (St. Catherine-Church Pen area)  -   660 acres
Caenwood (Portland)                        -   170 acres
13.      With the completion of the two programs of land divestment,
remaining Government land will mainly fall into three categories: natural
forests and forest reserves unsuitable for agriculture (about 200,000
acres); bauxite lands which are reserved for mining but are partially
leased out for fanming on a short-term basis (about 160,000 acres); and
land in Government enterprises (about 150,000 acres).
D. Divestment of Government-Enterprises
14.      In general, the policy regarding government investment in projects
in the agricultural sector is as follows:
- The Government will, where necessary and appropriate,
continue to invest in viable projects in the agricultural sector which have
long-term benefits for the economy and which are not being pursued by the
private sector. In such instances, joint ventures will be encouraged and
careful attention given to management contracts and performance and to
appropriate incentives to promote and encourage development in the sector.
- The Government will continue to divest entities deemed to
be comercially viable.
15.      In practice, no new Government enterprises in these sectors have
been set up in the past three years. There has, in fact, been steady
progress in the divestment of existing Government enterprises. This
divestment activity is currently the responsibility of the National
Investment Bank of Jamaica (NTBJ).
16.      In the 1980-88 period, the following agricultural enterprises were
divested, in whole or in part, through a combination of sale of assets and
long-term leasing of lands
Tobacco Industry Control Authority - tobacco development
Hillshire Fish Farms - inland fish farming
Hanover Spices Ltd - spice processing, entity now closed.



-76-
ANNEX VSIII
Page 4 of 4
Southern Processors Ltd - fruit and vegetable canning.
Zero Processing Storage Ltd - food processing
Rural Ice X Cold Storage Ltd - ice production
Grains Jamaica Ltd - 4,000 acre farm
Farm Machinery Center - tractor and equipment rentals.
Aquaculture Jamaica Ltd - freshwater fish and prawn pro-
duction. GOJ sold its 252 ownership.
Agricultural Development Corporation properties
Jamaica Frozen Foods Ltd - food processing
Serge Islands Dairies Ltd - dairy farming and beef weaning
Banana Company - boxing plant divested by MOA
Grays Inn Properties - sugar factory
17.      This divestment activity will continue under the new
Administration. The Government expects to complete the divestment of the
following enterprises by the end of FY89. This is, of course, subject to
modifications on account of factors which are beyond control of GOJ
(e.g.,late withdrawal of bidders) or which represent reasonable changes in
approach (e.g., buyer insistence that GOJ maintain minority participation).
(Note: Asset and liability figures, where given, are approximately one year
out of date and are book, not market values. All figures are in Jamaican
dollars.)
Eastern Banana Estates Ltd - Assets $254.7m, Liabilities $99.0m.
GOJ currently owns 70S and will seek to reduce its equity
position to 15.
Jamaica Fisheries Complex - Assets $7.5m, Liabilities $l0.7m. The
Divestment Committee is conducting negotiations with local
investors. The complex provided various services to
fishermen such as ice, berthing and maintenance facilities.
Divestment may include leasing of facilities and sale of
assets.
Innswood V!Aegar - Assets $0.6m, Liabilities $1.3m. Currently
being advertised for sale.
National Rums Ltd (Innswood Distillery) - Assets $5.8m, Liabili-
ties $1.9m. Preliminary investigation underway.
Cornwall Dairy Development Ltd. - -his was a prior divestment
which fell through and is beit& reworked. It is possible
that GOJ might retain some equity interest in Cornwall.
National Cassava Products Ltd - Currently closed. Attempting to
sell assets, primarily equipment, to foreign buyers.
Agricultural Mechanical Services - Former MOA vehicle service
depot is in the last stages of formal divestment.
Cocoa Industry Board properties - This involves five farms,
totaling 3,000 acres, with a book value of $1.5 m. Draft
Cabinet submission for this divestment has been forwarded
to the Ministry of Finance and Planning.



-77-.
AWX  IX
Page 1 of 3
JAMAICA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Terms of Reference for Chemical Pesticides Study
Obiective
1.       The objectives of the proposed study of pestieide usage and
legislation are to assess the current situation, identify the obstacles to
the enforcement of the Pesticides Act of 1975 (recently enacted), and make
recommendations to overcome these obstacles and assist the Government in
the definition of a plan of action to make the Act fully operational.
Expertise Recuired
2.       The person(s) required for this task should have academic
background at the M.Sc. or higher level in plant protection, entomology or
agriculture, and at least five years of ezperience in management of pests
and pesticides.
Scooe of the Study
3.       The report of the study would consist of three sections.  Section
one would be a review of various aspects of the present situation as
detailed in paragraph four below. Based on the analysis in Section One,
Section Two would review the Pesticides Act with particular emphasis on the
nature of the required regulations and the obstacles that are delaying its
enforcement. Section Three would present detailed recommendations of
actions required to begin enforcement of the Act and make it fully
operational, with a suggested timetable.
4.       Section One.  This section would review in detail the aspects
described below. The purpose would be to present a clear picture of the
current situation in order to identify the problem,. that would need to be
addressed in the regulations of the Pesticides Act.
a. Inventory and review existing acts and regulations concerning
pesticides to determine if they overlap or conflict with the
Pesticides Act;
b. Review the effectiveness of existing inter-agency coordinating
mechanisms used by agencies involved in pesticide regulation
enforcement;



-78-
AR IX
Page 2 of 3
c. Inventory and assess organizational units of Government
agencies which have or are expected to have a role in the
enforcement of the Pesticides Act (e.g., the extension service of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bureau of Standards of the
Ministry of Health, etc.);
d. Review and assess existing procedures tot (i) register
pesticides; (it) control their importations (iii) enforce
regulations concerning packaging and labeling for wholesale and
retail sales; (iv) establish tolerance levels for pesticide
residues in food crops for the domestic market and for export; (v)
measure actual levels of pesticide residues in food crops,
incluei.U inspection of farms and collection of samples for
testing, (vi) measure actual levels of pesticide residue in the
general environment; and (vii) monitor application practices;
e. Review current practices of pesticide application, transport
and storage, identifying issues and constraints;
f. Assess availability and reliability of statistics on pesticide
use;
g. Review and assess the technical and administrative capability
of existing laboratory facilities that could be used to carry out
routine testing of pesticide residues in food crops. Include
reconmendations regarding staff and equipment upgrading that may
be necessary to bring such facilities to acceptable standards;
h. Review the availability of training programs for pesticide
users (farmers, applicators, extension staff, sales personnel,
housewives, etc.);and
I. Assess existing Integrated pest management (IPM) programs, such
as the one used by the Coffee Industry Development Company (CIDCO)
to control the coffee berry borer, and recommend actions to
promote more effectively the IPM approach.
5.       Section Two. On the basis of the findings of the previous
section, this part of the report should highlight those clauses of the
Pesticides Act critical to the resolution of existing problems. No changes
or amendments to the Act are expected to be proposed, since it is likely
that it would take years to have them approved. Instead, the focus should
be on the nature of the required regulations of the Act. In other words,
the regulations should be geared as much as possible to addressing the
problems identified in Section One, and the report of the study should
serve as a guide for drafting of the regulations in line with that
objective. The actual drafting of the regulations would not be a part of
the study, but the study should provide sufficient guidance for such
drafting.



-79-
AM= XD
Page 3 of S
6.       This section should also review the existing, if any,
organizational structure to enforce the Act. Key aspects to be considered
arot the organizational adequacy and operational capacity of the apez
entity (supposedly the Ministry of Health); the effectiveness of the
coordinating linkages that may have been put into place to embrace the
other agencies which together with the apex agency would make up the
Pesticide Control Authority mandated by the Act; and the degree of
Involvement so far of the participating agencies. Finally, this sectLon
should present a comprehensive analysis of the obstacles that are delaying
the Act from becoming operational.
7.       Section Three. This section would present a detailed list of
recommendations of actions that would need to be taken by specific
agencies, Government officials, etc., to begin the effective enforcement of
the Act. It is desirable that a timetable be suggested for the more
critical steps. Finally, this section would also include recommendations
of additional studies that might be necessary to monitor the effectiveness
of the Act.
Duration and Cost
S.       The proposed study should be carried out by an external
consultant, since it would appear that no adequate local expertise exists.
However, the Government should provide qualified counterparts to assist the
consultant. It is estimated that the study would take about four months
(assuming one consultant at work), at a cost of about US$50,000 including
consultant's fees, subsistence expenditures and transportation.



-80-
Page I of 3
JAMAICA
AGRICULTUR-L SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
-Sunlementarv Loan Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
1.        (a)  Preparation:
Initial FAOICP Sector Review Mssion:s          February 1986
Pre-Appraisal Missions                         June 1988
(b) Appraisal Mission:                              November 1988
(c)  Negotiations:                                 August 1989
(4)  Planned Effectiveness                         Mwatch 1990
Ce)  Expected Time of Second Tranche Release:      March 1991
II. Slecial Conditions of Effectiveness
2.       None.
III. Conditions of Disbursement of the Second Tranche
S.       Conditions of release of the second tranche of the proposed loan
would Include the maintenance of actions already taken, continued
satisfactory macroeconomic policies consistent with agricultural policies,
and the following actions discussed in Part III above, and included In the
matrix in Annex VI and in Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.



-81-
nAm x
Page 2 of 3
A. Pricina Policies
4.       The first step of the scheduled amnual reductions in tariffs of
agricultural and agroindustrial commodities now subject to quantitative
import restrictions and reference prices would be put into effect (para.
44(b)).
5.       For FY90, Government transfers to the Jamaica Commodity Trading
Corporation would be kept at no more than J$ 130 million (para. 44(c)).
B. Credit Policies
6.       The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) would introduce and operate the
following system for setting interest rates on the loans it rediscountss
Ui) for medium and large farmers, defined as those with more than 25 acres
of gross land, the interest rate would be set equal to the average yield of
Treasury Bills in the twelve months previous to the  -.e in which the new
system goes into effect, and would be revised for new loans at the end of
every quarter thereafter following the same procedure; and (ii) for mall
farmers, defined as those with up to 25 acres of gross land, the interest
rate would be set equal to the average yield of Treasury Bills in the
twelve months previous to the date in which the new system goes into
effect, minus seven points, and would be revised for new loans at the end
of every quarter thereafter following the same procedure (para. 49(a)).
7.       The Prime Minister would submit to Parliament draft legislation
reforming the Cooperative Societies Act, in order to enable credit unions
to set their active and passive interest rates freely (para. 49(c)).
C. Marketing of Cocoa and Citrus
8.       The Parliament would amend the Cocoa Industry Board Act of 1957,
in such a manner as to enable any legally constituted private firms to
engage in the unrestricted purchasing, processing and exporting of cocoa
and cocoa products, subject only to the standard legal requirements for
firms in all sectors of the economy, except that the Government through the
Cocoa Industry Board would retain a function of quality control over cocoa
output of private exporters. Membership of cocoa producers and processors
in the Cocoa Industry Board would be voluntary, and no cess would be
imposed on non-members (para. 55(a)).
9.       The Parliament would amend the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1944
in order to simplify the procedure for the Minister of Agriculture to be
able to modify any Marketing Plan submitted under the Act. The Minister of
Agriculture would amend the Citrus Marketing Plan of 1949, in such a manner
as to enable any legally constituted private firms to engage in the
unrestricted purchasing, processing and expocting of citrus and citrus
products, subject only to the standard legal requirements for firms in all
sectors of the economy (para. 55(b)).



-82-
AMNEX
Page 3 of 3
D. Public Divestment Program
10.      The sale of at least 7,000 acres in FY89 (para. 57(a)).
11.      The issuing of at least 2,000 titles during FY89 (para. 57(b)).
12.      Completion of negotiations for divesting at least five small
agricultural and agroindustrial enterprises with assets valued at less than
US$2 million equivalent each, and at least one agricultural or
agroindustrial enterprise with assets in excess of that amount, or, in each
of the cases where negotiations have not been completed, adoption of
alternative actions, satisfactory to the Bank, to dispose of the assets of
the corresponding enterprises (para. 57(c)).
E. Chemical Pesticides
13.      Completion of the study on chemical pesticides and agreement on a
satisfactory plan of action to implement its recommendations (para. 59).



4                                                                              Yew l5'W  EU
CARWBBEA?XII '                      N.t    Mserg                 JAMAICA
-ot Gomm                            -   Man Iw Ro                  0 8 : td T
WSA                    2e                      o                a  oo4-'I   I   P"bb                C O
u_    JAMAKCA                            601                    4      m. 1477  M    4u0a  Pat_t
;jO.iIoI.iR                                     0                HSi"    wgm  FNCP BogMndUrig    ouwssadne
8         #UJA    Q UA         r, *  O0'                        S a m               F-me B
7foa                  C4A RIB SEA N
CORNWALL                              o 
p ">'CARIBBEAN
i~~~~~~~-  .°    9    DD  r Z                                              E A
___,_      _   ,E__  ___                      SEA
:: 0   10_ _ # 6t~~                                                                                -    e _ID LE_
*    . ' .             0                      , 7W                      7'AWA
3   .   .N   l   .   ,   -   -  I  .  I  '  I  ' ... 1S^.



