                                                                                 38380
                       InformalBoard Meeting September28 2004
                                                -

Debt Sustainabilityin Low-Income Countries-Further Considerations on an Operational
                            Framework and PolicyImplications

                                  Chairman'sSumming-up




  1.AnInformalBoardMeetingwasheld             on September28,2004, to consider the paper
  entitled "Debt Sustainabilityin Low-Income Countries-Further Considerations on an
  Operational Framework and Policy Implications"(IDNSecM2004-0629)preparedjointly by
  the staffsof IDA and the IMF.

  2.ExecutiveDirectorswelcomedtheopportunity           to discussthe Bank andFundstaffs'
  follow-uppaper on operationalizing the debt sustainability framework for low-income
  countries. They reiteratedthat this framework should be viewed in a broader perspective of
 furthering development objectives and underscored its importance in helping balance the risk
 of future debt problemsin low-income countries with the urgent need for additional financial
 flowsto help these countries meet the MDGs.

 3.      Directors supported the use ofdebt-burdenthresholdsbased onthe quality of policies
 and institutions, and underscored the importanceof using these thresholdsas indicative
 guideposts for future lending and borrowing decisions rather than rigid ceilings. Some
 Directors were concernedthat the proposed thresholds were too high and requestedthat they
 be set more conservativelyto limit the riskof future debt distress. They asked the staffs of
 the Bank and IMFto prepare ajoint note on alternative options for thresholds and their
 implications for financing. Directors acknowledged that a lower tolerance for debt distress
 would require higher levels of grant financing.

 4.      Directorsagreedthatitwasimportant to differentiatebetweentheforward-looking
 thresholds and thoseof the HIPC initiative, but they emphasized that the distinction should
 be made very clearto the wider public and asked for a clear communications strategy
 designed not onlyfor donor countries but also for low-income countries.

 5.      Directorsbroadlyendorsedthesuggestedcountry-specificapproach to thetreatment
 of public sector domestic debt. While domestic debtis clearly importantin the consideration
 of debt sustainability, Directors recognized the difficultyof establishing cross-country
 thresholdsthat incorporate domestic debt, given the lack of comparable historical data
 across low-income countries..Directors therefore supportedan approachto domestic debt
 that involved close monitoring, a careful interpretationof the benefits and risks; and a
 tailored responseto perceived problems. They encouraged staffto conduct further research
 with aview to developing more specific operational guidance domestic debt. Directors
                                                                 on
 also endorsedthe use ofthe CPIA as a tool for assessing policy, especially given the recent
 decision for its prospective disclosure.

6.      On the modalitiesforpreparingDSAs,Directorsemphasizedtheneedforafulland
substantive roleforthe Bank in DSA preparation, in viewitsoffiduciary responsibility,
policy advisoryrole, donor coordination responsibilities, and the prospectiveofuse DSAs in
determining the allocation of grantsin IDA. Directors stressed that DSAs should be prepared
jointly between the Bank and Fund given the need to present a coherent to other
                                                                           view
creditorsand country authorities and noted the needto work within a clear division of labor
consistent with each institution's mandate. Some Directors asked that any differences of view
between the Bank and Fund be documented in a transparent manner and broughtto the
respective Boards for resolution. In light of the discussion, theWill revisit the modalities
                                                                    staff
for collaborationfor further considerationby the Board.

7.      Directorsendorsedthe staffs proposal to usethedebtsustainabilityframework as a
guide to determine the allocation of grants in IDA-14, and looked forwardto details ofthis
proposal as endorsed by the IDA deputies during theIDA replenishment negotiations in
October and December,2004.




                                           -2-

