Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No. AB3130 
 
Project Name 
A
First Himachal Pradesh Development Policy 
Loan/Credit 
Region 
SAR 
Sector 
Sub national Government Administration (50 
percent); General Public Administration Sector 
(50 percent) 
Project ID 
P105124 
Borrower(s) 
Government of India 
Implementing Agency 
Government of Himachal Pradesh 
Date PID Prepared 
May 4, 2007 
Estimated Date of Appraisal Authorization 
June 15, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
July 26, 2007 
1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Himachal Pradesh (HP) is a small mountainous ‘special category’ state in India.
1
The special 
category status entitles the state to generous Central government plan grant assistance. HP has 
several significant achievements in terms of economic growth and social development, in spite of 
its natural constraints. Since the mid-1990s, HP has grown marginally faster than the rest of the 
country, and has achieved significant economic diversification—demonstrated in the secondary 
and tertiary sectors growing at a real annual rate of 7-8 percent, compared to the primary sector 
growing at around 3.5 percent.  HP has the second lowest poverty headcount ratio in India of 11.6 
percent, a per capita real consumer expenditure that is almost a third higher than the national 
average, and is on track to achieve most MDG indicators. Service delivery and infrastructure 
provision is also superior to most Indian states. Supportive government policies, a transparent and 
accessible administration, a peaceful political environment, and Central support have contributed 
to the state’s development.  
 
HP’s recent achievements mask several challenges that confront it.  Most importantly, HP’s 
achievements have been largely led by the public sector. HP realizes that, to a great extent, the 
state may be reaching the limits of its traditional source of growth and development: one that is 
heavily dependent on public spending, financed largely by borrowing and Central assistance.  
 
The Government of Himachan Pradesh (GoHP) recognizes that the sustainability of HP’s success 
will depend on: (a) shifting the 
growth strategy
 that is still far too heavily dependent on public 
expenditures—to an increasing focus on growth led by the private sector; (b)  creating 
productive 
employment opportunities
 for HP’s young and educated labor force, so that reliance on the public 
sector—which currently accounts for about 85 percent of organized sector employment—as an 
employer decreases; and (c) leveraging the  state’s rich 
environment and natural resources
 in a 
sustainable manner to create growth and employment opportunities. HP’s articulated medium 
1
“Special category” states are those having characteristics like strategic border locations, hilly terrain, inadequate 
infrastructure, large tribal population, and limited resource bases compared to development needs.  There are eleven 
“special category” states in India. 
Page  2
term development priorities focus on precisely these issues. The priority is to exploit the untapped 
potential in areas such as hydropower and tourism in an environmentally and economically 
sustainable manner; strengthen the environment management framework in the state, promoting 
private sector development for faster growth and productive 
employment
–all
 supported by 
enabling fiscal and governance reforms.  
 
The major constraint faced by the state is the creation of fiscal space to finance the state’s 
development vision while moving towards a fiscally sustainable position.  About 65 percent of 
Government of Himachal Pradesh’s (GoHP) expenditure is committed to salaries, pensions, and 
interest payments—among the highest in Indian states—squeezing fiscal headroom for 
investment.  GoHP also carries high debt stock of about 74 percent of GSDP—and it has the 
second highest per capita debt in the country, which strains debt servicing ability. However, 
GoHP has recently begun to receive substantial non-tax revenue from hydropower royalty, 
implemented tax reforms (most notably VAT), and achieved expenditure compression putting the 
state on a track to achieving fiscal sustainability.  GoHP would now like to consolidate these 
achievements.     
 
HP’s continuing development would, however, be vulnerable if the state is unable to sustain its 
macroeconomic performance.  GoHP recognizes that state-led development has certain limits, 
and generous financial flows from the Centre cannot be assumed indefinitely—especially as HP’s 
development achievements influence Central devolution to redistribute resources progressively to 
weaker states.  The special tax incentives that have promoted recent industrial growth are also due 
to be phased out gradually by 2010. At the same time, past state involvement has raised 
expectations of economic development which could be difficult to fulfill if Central support is 
phased out—unless GoHP undertakes reforms, and devises alternate strategies to move the state 
from being a provider to a facilitator and regulator.  Accordingly, GoHP has sought World Bank 
involvement to support HP to strengthen its overall fiscal situation, improve public financial 
management, promote better environment management, and develop its two most valuable 
sectors—hydropower and tourism.  Furthermore, from the Bank’s perspective, this operation 
would provide a first opportunity for the Bank to support a special category state in reducing its 
heavy reliance on Centrally-funded support.  It would also provide a valuable learning experience 
for other states rich in natural resources seeking to harness their development potential 
sustainably.  These provide adequate rationale for staying engaged with HP over the medium 
term. 
 
2. Proposed Objectives 
 
The overarching objective of the proposed HPDPL1 is to support the implementation of critical 
structural, fiscal, and administrative reforms needed to achieve sustainable and rapid economic 
growth and inclusive development over the medium term, while sustaining the environmental 
heritage of the state.  The priority areas for the first operation will be fiscal adjustment, and 
promotion of environmentally sustainable development with particular reference to the 
development of hydropower.  The overall program will also support reforms to enhance growth 
and livelihoods, and improve governance and public administration.   
 
Conditional upon a strong fiscal adjustment program and financing needs, adjustment support 
from the Bank is envisaged to be up to US$ 500 to US$ 600 million over 4-5 years.  It is expected 
that this support would be in the form of a series of three or four two-tranche operations, 
disbursed against upfront actions.  The individual size of each operation is to be determined at the 
time of negotiations depending on the strength and progress of the reform program. 
 
Page  3
3. Preliminary Description 
 
The proposed first DPL seeks to address four core intertwined policy areas that are critical to 
accelerating economic growth and attaining fiscal sustainability. The first policy area supports a 
robust 
fiscal framework
:
creation of fiscal space through a series of tax, non-tax, and expenditure 
re-structuring measures, and strengthening the public financial management architecture in the 
state. The focus is to reduce debt, scale up investment expenditure and expenditure efficiency 
while strengthening financial accountability mechanisms. The second policy area focuses on 
developing 
hydropower
 resources efficiently, sustainably and equitably by strengthening 
environment management activities, shifting to a holistic river basin management framework, 
strengthening principles of benefit sharing with communities,
 and improving the state’s 
hydropower planning and management capacity. The third policy area supports the development 
of an institutional framework for 
environmentally sustainable development
.
The operation will 
support the strengthening of GoHP’s fledgling Department of Environment; develop an 
Environment Master Plan for the state, and mainstream environment management within sectoral 
agencies by developing suitable guidelines. The fourth area supported by the operation is to put in 
place policies to encourage 
growth and employment
 in the secondary and tertiary sectors. 
Specifically, the operation will seek to improve the general business environment for private 
sector participation and develop the potential of the tourism sector in the state.        
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
This is a Development Policy Loan and is therefore not subject to OP 4.01, the Bank’s policy on 
environmental and social safeguards. However, in accordance with good practice, the DPL and 
the policy dialogue that underpins it have been prepared in keeping with the principles of 
environment sustainability. The Bank does not foresee direct and significant environmental 
impacts from the reform measures supported by the DPL. The program will, in fact, directly 
support improvement of environmental planning and this will have beneficial impacts.  The South 
Asia environment team working on HP in collaboration with the task team has started to prepare 
an environmental analysis of the program.  The full draft analysis will be completed prior to the 
appraisal review. 
 
5. Tentative Financing 
 
Source:                                                     (US $mn
)
Borrower                                                      Nil 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development                200 
International Development Association       Nil 
Total                                                             200 
 
6. Contact Point 
 
Contact: Mohan Nagarajan 
Title:      Senior Economist 
Tel:        (91-11) 24617241 X 257 
E
-mail:   mnagarajan@worldbank.org 
Contact: Ananya Basu 
Title:      Senior Economist 
Tel:        (91-11) 24617241 X 138 
E
-mail:   abasu@worldbank.org 
 
Page  4
