                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00001444



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-48710 IDA-43600 TF-90256)



                                         ON A

                                       CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 42.5 MILLION
                           (US$65 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         AND

                                       A LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$135 MILLION

                                          TO

                              THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                         FOR

    A FIRST HIMACHAL PRADESH DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN AND CREDIT



                                    JUNE 29, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
         INDIA ­ GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR

                     1 April ­ 31 March

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2010)

                Currency Unit = Indian Rupee

                   Re 1.00 = US$ 0.02167
                   US$ 1.00 = Rs. 46.14


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAMPA   Compensatory Afforestation and Fund
CAT     Catchment Area Treatment
CLAP    Community-Led Action Program
DEST    Department of Environment, Science and Technology
DPL     Development Policy Loan
EMP     Environment Master Plan
FR      Financial Rules
GoHP    Government of Himachal Pradesh
GoI     Government of India
GSDP    Gross State Domestic Product
HPDPL   Himachal Pradesh Development Policy Loan/Credit
HP      Himachal Pradesh
HPSEB   Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board
IADA    Industrial Area Development Authorities
IAS     Indian Administrative Service
IPH     Irrigation and Public Health Management and Planning
LADA    Local Area Development Authorities
MTFP    Medium Term Fiscal Plan
O&M     Operations and Maintenance Expenditure
PFM     Public Financial Management
PPIAF   Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPP     Public Private Partnerships
PRI     Panchayati Raj Institutions
PTA     Parent Teacher Associations
PWD     Public Works Department
RKS     Rogi Kalyan Samities
TCP     Town and Country Planning
VAT     Value Added Tax
   Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
 Country Director: Roberto Zagha, SACIN
  Sector Manager: Joel Hellman, SASGP
Task Team Leader: Mohan Nagarajan, SASGP
ICR Team Leader: Ulrich Bartsch, SASEP
                                            INDIA
                  A First Himachal Pradesh Development Policy Loan and Credit


                                                            CONTENTS


  Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 2
3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................................... 5
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 21
6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 25
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......................... 26
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................................. 28
M A P ........................................................................................................................................ 31
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Himachal Pradesh
Country:                India                   Program Name:             Development Policy
                                                                          Loan 1
                                                                          IBRD-48710,IDA-
Program ID:             P105124                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          43600,TF-90256
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          INDIA
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 203.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 200.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Government of Himachal Pradesh
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/24/2007     Effectiveness:          12/18/2007          12/18/2007
Appraisal:            07/30/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/25/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                03/31/2009          12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:          Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                  20                  20
Renewable energy                                                      30                  30
Sub-national government administration                                50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               22                  22
Climate change                                                        11                  11
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             23                  23
Environmental policies and institutions                               22                  22
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      22                  22
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          N. Roberto Zagha                     Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Joel Hellman                         Kapil Kapoor
Program Team Leader:       Mohan Nagarajan                      Mohan Nagarajan
ICR Team Leader:           Ulrich Bartsch
ICR Primary Author:        Ulrich Bartsch




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overarching objective of HPDPL1 is to support the implementation of critical
structural, fiscal, and administrative reforms needed to achieve sustainable and rapid
economic growth and inclusive development over the medium term, while sustaining the
environmental heritage of the state. The priority areas for the operation will be fiscal
adjustment, and promotion of environmentally sustainable development, with particular
reference to the development of hydropower. The overall program also supports reforms
to enhance growth and employment, especially in the private sector, and improve
governance and public administration.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target      Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
                   Strengthened government institutions/policies (fiscal management,
Indicator 1 :      environment, hydropower) to enable higher growth and inclusive
                   development, while sustaining environmental heritage.
                   (i) Fiscal stress, with
                   high debt-to-GSDP                                         Fiscal stress
                                           Strengthened
                   ratio; (ii) inadequate                                    persists but
                                           government
Value              institutional framework                                   institutions for
                                           institutions as
(quantitative or   for environment                                           environment
                                           discussed under
Qualitative)       management; (iii) lack                                    management and
                                           the Program
                   of institutional                                          CAT plans
                                           Policy Matrix.
                   mechanism to                                              improved.
                   implement CAT Plans.
Date achieved      06/30/2006              12/31/2009                        06/01/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Medium term fiscal framework prepared to meet agreed 2009-10 targets.


                                               iii
                   Recommendations following Public Financial Management Assessment study
                   begun to be implemented.
                                                                               The fiscal program
                   MTFP in line with                                           went off track in
                                             State finances on
                   HPFRBMA and TFC                                             FY2008/09 mainly
                                             sustainable path.
Value              recommendations                                             because of external
                                             PFMA report
(quantitative or   prepared under                                              shocks and policy
                                             recommendations
Qualitative)       HPDPL1 and, PFMA                                            responses, and the
                                             implementation
                   assessment study                                            implementation of
                                             underway.
                   launched.                                                   6th pay commission
                                                                               recommendations.
Date achieved      09/25/2007                12/31/2009                        06/01/2010
                   The Government of HP believes that tax and non-tax revenue improvements
Comments
                   (from VAT and hydropower) and wage bill compression (from redeploying
(incl. %
                   and reskilling of existing manpower) can bring the fiscal program on track in
achievement)
                   FY2010/11.
                   Progress in operationalization of Environment Department, and preparation of
Indicator 2 :
                   Environment Master Plan.
                                             Environment
                                             Department
                   Environment
                                             operational and
Value              Department established,
                                             effective. Progress               Original target
(quantitative or   and Terms of Reference
                                             in preparation of                 achieved.
Qualitative)       for Environment Master
                                             Environment
                   Plan prepared.
                                             Master Plan as per
                                             revised schedule.
Date achieved      09/25/2007                12/31/2009                        06/01/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   River Basin wide planning approach adopted (eg. progress in implementation
Indicator 3 :      of catchment management activities and coordination and optimization of
                   hydropower development in the Satluj Basin).
                                           Progress as per
                                           agreed timelines in
                   Time-bound Action
Value                                      Action Plan, which
                   Plan for implementation                                  Original target
(quantitative or                           have been revised
                   of Catchment Area                                        achieved.
Qualitative)                               to take into
                   Treatment Plan agreed.
                                           account delays so
                                           far.
Date achieved      09/25/2007              12/31/2009                       06/01/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs




                                                iv
                                                                       Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                        IP          Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                   (USD millions)
                         Moderately                Moderately
  1    06/12/2008                                                          101.62
                        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  2    12/04/2008                                                          101.62
                        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
  3    03/09/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                101.62
                                                  Unsatisfactory
  4    07/13/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory            101.62


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Himachal Pradesh (HP) has some of the best indicators for human development. It has
slightly higher per capita income than the national average, although by international
standards it remains low. This success was achieved despite the severe structural
disadvantages the country is facing which raise costs of service delivery: relative
remoteness, environmental fragility, and a mountainous terrain. The state faces difficult
challenges to sustain progress, especially to create jobs for a rapidly growing and
educated labor force, to unlock the potential for private sector led growth, and to tackle
key fiscal and environmental sustainability issues.

Following the recommendations of the 12th Finance Commission (FC), important strides
were made to tackle the issue of fiscal sustainability. HP benefited from debt
consolidation after it put in place fiscal responsibility legislation and framed its fiscal
correction path. Other impacts of the 12th FC recommendations were a higher share in tax
devolution, significant grants in support of the non-plan revenue deficit and special
purpose grants in the areas of roads, public buildings, and forests.

At this point, priority areas for the government's reform program were therefore (1)
strengthening fiscal consolidation with higher revenue growth, better fiscal management,
improved expenditure composition, and better debt and contingent liability management;
(2) promoting key sectors for growth, employment, and revenue generation, in particular
through more efficient and sustainable development of hydropower and tourism; (3)
promoting the institutional framework for environmental sustainability; (4) strengthening
governance and public administration, in particular through addressing staffing issues;
and (5) improving the business environment.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The overarching objective of the Himachal Pradesh Development Policy Loan (HPDPL1)
was to support the implementation of critical structural, fiscal, and administrative reforms
needed to achieve sustainable and rapid economic growth and inclusive development
over the medium term, while sustaining the environmental heritage of the state. The
priority areas for the operation were fiscal adjustment and promotion of environmentally
sustainable development, with particular reference to the development of hydropower.
The overall program also supported reforms to enhance growth and employment,
especially in the private sector, and improve governance and public administration.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

There were no revisions in PDO of HPDPL1.



                                             1
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

The priority areas for the operation--in accordance with GoHP's own reform program--
were revenue mobilization and expenditure compression, public financial management,
debt management, modernization of procurement, improvement of budget execution,
transparency, institutional strengthening for better sustainability of hydropower
development, catchment area treatments, tourist sector development, environmental
planning and management, private sector business environment, governance and public
administration.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance


   Tranche #       Amount        Expected     Actual Release             Release
                               Release Date        Date
   Tranche 1     US$67.5       September      September        Regular
                 million and   2007           2007
                 SDR 21.5
                 million
   Tranche 2     US$67.5       End-2008       October 2009     Regular
                 million and
                 SDR 21.5
                 million




                                          2
                                           Tranche 1
HP has prepared an Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) covering the                       Met.
period FY2007/08 to FY2011/12 with the objectives, inter alia, of
increasing revenue through higher tax effort, and controlling the wage
bill, and has taken a number of measures to implement the MTFP for
FY2007/08.
HP has amended the rules of the Himachal Pradesh Fiscal Responsibility               Met.
Budget Management Act (HPFRBMA) of 2005 to progressively reduce
risk-weighted guarantees for each FY to below 40 percent of the total
revenue receipts of the preceding FY, and has announced a framework to
eliminate off-budget borrowing.
HP has issued instructions to prepare a departmental Medium Term                     Met.
Expenditure Framework in each of the following key departments:
Education, Health, Public Works, and Irrigation and Public Health.
HP has piloted devolution of irrigation and drinking water schemes to                Met.
beneficiary groups (i.e. user associations and Panchayati Raj Institutions,
respectively, in order to achieve increased efficiency and reduce
operations and maintenance costs.
HP has formulated a time bound Action Plan for managing the                          Met.
environmental aspects of hydropower development.
HP has issued a Government Order (GO) to establish a new Department                  Met.
of Environment, Science, and Technology, with details of staffing and
functions, in order to improve the effectiveness of environmental
management, protect vulnerable ecosystems, and enhance sustainable
development in the State.
HP has finalized a time bound Terms of Reference for preparing an                    Met.
overarching Environment Master Plan for the State.
 HP has taken a number of measures for improving the functioning of                  Met.
government.

                                         Tranche 2
HP has made satisfactory progress in carrying out the overall GoHP                   Met.
Development Program, as set out in the Letter of Development Policy
(and the Policy Matrix).

HP has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework--in           The          fiscal
particular, prepared the FY2008/09 Budget in line with the agreed             program went off
MTFP, and executed the FY2007/08 budget to meet the MTFP targets for          track            in
that year.                                                                    FY2008/09 partly
                                                                              because          of
                                                                              external shocks.
                                                                              The 2nd tranche
                                                                              was released on
                                                                              the    basis     of
                                                                              measures to bring
                                                                              the program back
                                                                              in line with the
                                                                              MTFP             in
                                                                              FY2009/10.




                                               3
 HP has completed a review of user charges in the Departments of              Met.
 Irrigation, Drinking Water, Health, Transport and Minor Royalty, and
 adopt measures to rationalize user charges, reduce implicit subsidies, and
 improve sustainable financing of operations and maintenance of public
 investment.
 HP has made progress in the implementation of the action plan on             Met.
 catchment area management activities for the identified four hydropower
 projects in the short term, and prepared a river basin Catchment Area
 Treatment (CAT) plan for the Satluj in the medium to long term, in
 accordance with the timeframe set out in the action plan.
 HP has completed the Satluj basin study, and prepared a time bound           Met.
 action plan based on the agreed recommendations of the study, for the
 improved coordination and optimization of sustainable hydropower
 development in the Satluj basin.
 HP has made progress in the preparation of an Environment Master Plan        Met.
 in accordance with the timeframe set out in the terms of reference, and
 conducted a detailed institutional assessment of the environment sector to
 help operationalize the newly formed Department of Environment,
 Science & Technology in a systematic and structured manner with the
 overall objective of facilitating environmentally sound and sustainable
 decisions.
 HP has made satisfactory progress in implementing the policy on              Met.
 minimum tenures and containing transfers, including satisfactory
 operation of the monitoring system referred to therein.
 HP has prepared manpower and functional reviews in five identified           Met.
 departments, prepared a time bound action plan to improve the
 organizational structure of the departments, and carried out initial
 implementation of recommendations including functional reorganization
 and abolition of identified surplus posts.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

State legislative elections at the end of 2007, the subsequent change in government,
and the transfer of key officials in January 2008 halted implementation of the
operation for about six months. Unsatisfactory progress led to a delay in the second
tranche release and the operation closed at end-March 2009 (the new government's
request for extension of the closing date arrived too late for processing). However, the
government demonstrated renewed commitment and the operation was retroactively
extended to 31 December 2009. The implementation was subsequently rated
`satisfactory' and this allowed the disbursement of the second tranche in October 2009.

The fiscal situation deteriorated under the operation mainly because of external
shocks and policy responses to these shocks. The deficit expanded because of the state
government's reaction to rising commodity prices (higher subsidies), the economic
slowdown that was a fall-out from the global financial crisis, the implementation of the
6th Pay Commission recommendations, and the Government of India's (GoI) fiscal
stimulus measures comprising tax reductions, higher spending and higher borrowing
limits for states.



                                               4
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The Bank team carried out intensive supervision and monitoring of outcomes on the basis
of a detailed policy matrix with time-bound action plans. Documentation for quantitative
indicators, legal actions, and studies was collected on a timely basis. Workshops were
organized with key stakeholders.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The operation had strategic importance for both GoI and the Bank. It was the first
time that comprehensive institutional reforms for environment management were
supported by a Bank Development Policy Loan (DPL). Success of these reforms in HP
has a strong demonstration effect on other hill states in North and Northeast India, which
share its fragile ecology and increasing reliance on tourism and hydropower revenue. On
the basis of a history of relatively high achievements in service delivery, social cohesion,
and ability to implement policies, HP was thought to be likely to carry out the operation
successfully.

The design of the operation was informed by an in-depth report on the state's
progress and longer-term prospects.1 It also benefitted from the simultaneous
preparation of Bank support for the Rampur Hydropower Project and the Himachal
Pradesh State Highways Project. Some of the identified issues (such as slope stabilization
through bio-engineering, stopping of uncontrolled muck dumping into the rivers and on
hill sides, deforestation, catchment area treatment, CAT) went beyond these projects and
required policy and institutional changes.

The report suggested that the institutional approach to environment management
was fragmented, and not consistently internalized in decision making. Environment
management was a one-member unit within the Science and Technology Department, and
not geared to influence development decisions from an environmental perspective. The
State Pollution Control Board was a separate entity, mandated to monitor environmental
norms for industrial activities. The Forest Department was charged with monitoring the
green cover. The track record of these agencies in implementing environment
management activities was modest. Given that hydropower development was progressing
rapidly, particular attention needed to be paid to mitigating some of the environmental
effects, and optimizing implementation and management of hydropower projects. The
operation therefore incorporated environmental sustainability as one of its main pillars.

Design of the operation sought to address concerns over implementation capacity of the
GoHP by sequencing the reforms and making available significant technical assistance.


1
  World Bank (2007), Himachal Pradesh: Accelerating Development and Sustaining Success in a Hill State.
Washington, DC: World Bank.




                                                        5
The Bank's team also showed considerable commitment to the operation and provided
intensive supervision.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives


This section closely follows the policy matrix.

I. Creating Fiscal Space and Improving Public Financial Management


   A. Fiscal Sustainability and Transparency



Objective and expected outcomes: achieve fiscal sustainability, create fiscal space.

Rating: moderately unsatisfactory; state finances have not been placed on a sustainable
path, mainly because of external shocks, but measures taken under the operation have
prevented a much worse outcome.

The fiscal program went off track in FY2008/09-09/10 but measures supported by
the operation have prevented a worse outcome, and corrections have been identified
that could restore fiscal discipline. External shocks hitting the economy were the rise in
commodity prices and the economic slowdown in 2008, and salary increases following
the 6th Pay Commission awards in 2009. The deficit expanded because the 6th Pay
Commission recommendations implemented by the GoI substantially affected the
GoHP's capacity to limit revenue expenditure, especially on salaries and pensions, and
because of the state government's and the GoI's reaction to the external shocks: rising
commodity prices led to higher subsidies, the economic slowdown that was a fall-out
from the global financial crisis led to fiscal stimulus measures comprising tax reductions,
higher spending and higher borrowing limits for states. In FY2008/09 and FY2009/10
(preliminary estimates), the fiscal deficit expanded to 6.2 percent and 5.4 percent of
Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), respectively, from 1.8 percent in FY2007/08,
with current deficits of 0.4 percent of GSDP in both years. Even the FY2010/11 budget
envisages a deficit that is wider than the target given by the 13th Finance Commission.
However, the GoHP believes that it can take additional measures to bring the fiscal
program back on track in FY2010/11 by improving on the budgeted outcome. These
measures include tax and non-tax revenue, especially from an increase in the VAT rate
and new hydropower projects, and payroll compression through redeploying and
reskilling of existing manpower.
Measures to improve revenue mobilization and compress expenditures supported
under the operation contributed to containing the fiscal slippages. These are detailed
in the next two sections.

The FY2010/11 budget envisages maintaining the wage bill constant, while
increasing outlays on pensions. Capital expenditure and net lending is envisaged to fall


                                             6
to 4.1 percent of GSDP from 5.1 percent in the previous year. Despite this planned
expenditure contraction, the deficit is projected to reach 5.1 percent of GSDP, which is
more than 1 percentage point above the 3.5 percent of GSDP target set by the finance
commission. The 13th Finance Commission projects the fiscal deficit path and sets the
GoHP's annual borrowing limits.2 It is therefore not clear whether an above-target deficit
can be financed. The GoHP will amend its Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management
Act to reflect the recommended fiscal adjustment path.
                                     K    F    O       H        P                     GSDP
                                                    2007-08    2008-09     2008-09    2009-10   2009-10   2010-11
                                                   (Actuals)    (B.E)     (Actuals)    (BE)       (RE)     (BE)
    Revenue                                          28.6       26.1         25.2      23.3      24.9      24.1
    State's Own Revenues                             11.8           9.8      10.8       9.6      10.4       9.9
            Tax                                       6.1           6.4       6.1       6.0       6.2       6.2
            Non- Tax                                  5.7           3.4       4.8       3.6       4.2       3.7
    Central Taxes and Grants                         16.8       16.3         14.4      13.7      14.5      14.3
           Shared Taxes                               2.5           2.6       2.3       2.3       2.0       3.4
           Grants                                    14.3       13.8         12.1      11.4      12.5      10.9


    Non- Interest Expenditures                       25.1       26.3         26.2      22.3      25.6      24.6
           Salaries (incl GIA for education)         10.1       10.3          9.7       8.9      10.0       9.9
           Pensions & Retirement Benefits             3.0           3.3       3.1       2.9       3.1       3.9
           Non- Wage O & M                            3.8           4.0       3.4       3.0       3.5       3.3
           Other Revenue Expenditures                 1.3           0.7       1.7       1.2       1.4       1.3
           Subsidies and Transfers                    2.5           2.4       2.5       2.1       2.5       2.2
           Capital Outlay                             4.4           5.3       5.6       4.1       5.0       3.7
           Net Lending                                0.0           0.2       0.2       0.0       0.1       0.4


    HP Primary Surplus (+)/ Deficit (-)               3.5        -0.2        -1.0       1.0       -0.7      -0.4
           Interest Payments                          5.3           5.1       5.1       4.6       4.7       4.7


    Go HP Revenue S urplus (+)/Deficit(-)             2.7           0.3      -0.4       0.6       -0.4      -1.1
    Go HP Fiscal S urplus (+)/Deficit(-)              -1.8       -5.3        -6.2       -3.5      -5.4      -5.1
    Debt                                             66.4       66.0         62.6      56.7      58.9      55.6


        B. Revenue Reform
Objective and expected outcomes: policy and administrative reforms, additional revenue,
efficiency, lower compliance costs.
Rating: moderately satisfactory; own revenue has been strengthened, but the tax-to-
GSDP ratio has stagnated (in part because of policy responses to external shocks).
Strong revenue measures have recently been taken. Revenue reforms contributed to a
marked increase in the tax-to-GSDP ratio up to FY2007/08, but the economic slowdown
2
  The GoHP pointed out in its comments on the ICR that the 13th Finance Commission has failed to take into account
the states' salary and pension arrears arising from the 6th Pay Commission recommendations. In the case of Himachal
Pradesh, only a 2 percent average per annum increase in salary expenditure has been allowed during 2010-15 while
assessing the salary expenditure, ignoring even normal Daily Allowance increases. This has resulted in an incorrect
estimation of GoHP's genuine expenditure, which will have a recurring impact.




                                                                    7
and fiscal stimulus tax reductions halted progress in the ratio. Nevertheless, without
additional measures the ratio probably would not have been constant over the last three
years. Revenue was maintained because of higher Motor Vehicle Token tax, taxation of
hotels based on minimum occupancies, better revenue administration (simplification of
procedures: online filing, application for passes for entry of goods), and enforcement
(spot checks conducted by a `flying squad' of tax inspectors). Revenue was also raised
from a review of user charges for irrigation and drinking water, and bus transport. In
addition, the frequency of the allocation of timber for house building--a traditional
allowance for state citizens--was greatly reduced (from 5 to 30 years for new
construction) and the timber price raised to 30 percent of market price (10 percent for the
poor). An ad valorem tax was imposed on electricity to replace fixed levies. Road tolls on
heavy vehicles entering HP were increased, and the administration of toll barriers and
1,200 small irrigation projects were outsourced. On the other hand, the stamp duty was
lowered to 5 percent from 8 percent, but this could actually lead to higher revenue in the
future as transactions are reported more accurately. Most recently, in April 2010, the
GoHP raised the VAT rate from 4 to 5 percent and imposed an entry tax on goods
crossing the HP border, which is aimed at siphoning off windfalls from the difference in
taxation between HP and its neighboring states. Goods affected by the entry tax include
cement, diesel, and tobacco, and the revenue is estimated at Rs. 1 billion. Apart from the
revenue aspect, the tax is also designed to eliminate HP's disadvantage from the tax
differentials.
Some structural reforms have been delayed. The computerization of the VAT
administration did not progress as planned. While funding for it was allocated by the GoI,
the consultant has only just been identified and a contract will be signed shortly. The
evaluation of VAT implementation is starting shortly, to be conducted by the National
Institute for Public Finance and Policy. While excise policy was streamlined, many
licenses and controls remain in particular with regard to liquor sales. These take time
away from potentially higher-revenue activities. It should also be noted that it was the
state government's decision to reduce the Central Sales Tax (CST) to 1 percent from the
national 2 percent, and no compensation is therefore being paid by GoI. Likewise, the
state foregoes important revenue by giving complete tax exemption to industries locating
in backward panchayats. This is arguably not needed at least in the case of cement
industries, which locate where limestone is found and which have availed themselves of
the tax exemption.
The 13th Finance Commission awarded relatively small revenue increases to
Himachal Pradesh, which put public finances in a precarious position. In fact, while
HP's share in central taxes is expected to increase by 1.4 percentage points of GSDP in
FY2010/11 relative to the preliminary estimates for FY2009/10, central grants are slated
to fall by 1.6 percentage points of GSDP.

Additional revenue from the most recent tax increases, new hydropower, and
further payroll compression is expected to cut the deficit. The tax measures (entry tax
and higher VAT rates) are expected to yield extra revenue of Rs. 2.5 billion. New
hydropower projects are expected to come on stream in the next few months, and
government revenue from them is conservatively estimated at Rs. 5 billion. Together,


                                            8
these revenue measures would reduce the deficit by about 1.5 percent of GSDP. Further
payroll compression from the abolishment of posts and attrition would further reduce the
deficit beyond the budget estimates which were prepared before these measures were
implemented.

   C. Implementing Expenditure Restructuring
Objective and expected outcomes: improve composition of expenditure towards priority
growth enhancing areas, in particular operations and maintenance, capital expenditure.


Rating: moderately unsatisfactory; the increase in operations and maintenance and
capital expenditure has not been achieved as envisaged (in part because of external
shocks).


Expenditure composition targets set in the operation for FY2011/12 will likely be
missed. The main expenditure containment measures were strict controls on new hiring,
hiring on a contractual basis, outsourcing of services, reduction of budgetary support to
public enterprises along with disinvestment and closure, and the freezing of power
subsidies at about Rs. 1.4 bn. The overall subsidy bill, however, remained constant at 2.5
percent of GSDP, and the ratio of outlays on salaries and pensions to GSDP increased.
Measures to contain spending proved insufficient to offset the impact of higher
commodity prices (and therefore subsidies and inflation adjustment of wages and
pensions) and the 6th pay commission awards. As a result, some expenditure composition
targets in the original MTFP are likely to be missed (the MTFP targeted the ratio of
salaries to total spending at 30 percent, against 34 percent in the FY2010/11 budget, the
ratio of non-wage O&M to spending at 18 percent, against 11.2 percent in the budget, and
the ratio of capital outlay to spending at 20 percent, against 12.5 percent in the budget).


   D. Management of Debt and Contingent Liabilities


Objective and expected outcomes: improve liabilities management and attain debt
sustainability with a rules based framework.


Rating: satisfactory; debt management has improved with a discontinuation of off-budget
borrowing and guarantees.


Despite the deterioration in the fiscal situation, the GoHP's debt-to-GSDP ratio
declined. The GoHP has actively prepaid, restructured and swapped debt. In particular,


                                            9
as per GoI rules for DPLs, the GoHP used the proceeds of the DPL's first tranche to
prepay debt obligations of about Rs. 2.5 billion in FY2007/08. Other high-cost loans of
Rs. 2 billion have also been prepaid subsequently in FY2008/09. Consequently, GoHP's
interest-to-revenue ratio has declined from 35 percent in FY2004/05 to 18.8 percent in
FY2009/10. The GoHP has eliminated off-budget borrowing and has also avoided
guaranteeing debt, and risk weighted guarantees are now about 4 percent of GSDP.
Because of the elimination of guarantees and low level of outstanding contingent
liabilities, the GoHP does not undertake evaluations of contingent risks. The GoHP also
does not guarantee debt of PSEs, cooperatives and statutory boards. It plans to divest its
stakes in most PSEs in coming years.


   E. Improving Public Financial Management (PFM) Architecture and Budget
      Execution
Objective and expected outcomes: strengthen the financial management architecture for
greater transparency and improved fiscal control, and improve budget execution by more
efficient accounting and better management information system.
Rating: satisfactory; there is greater transparency in the use of public resources and
improved financial control; the treasury has largely been computerized, and there is
progress in the envisaged reduction in drawal and disbursement officers (DDOs) and
payroll automation.
PFM framework. Following a detailed assessment of PFM systems, the GoHP has
begun to modernize its PFM framework by enacting new Himachal Pradesh financial
rules (FR) in June 2009 replacing rules dating back to 1976. The GoHP has also revised
its treasury rules and the budget manual. The new FR place greater responsibilities on
heads of departments and establish new standards of financial propriety. Controls have
been tightened to place all payments under the management of the treasury and
discontinue cash payments including for salaries (54,000 out of 180,000 staff and 39,000
of 90,000 pensioners covered in FY2009/10). A database of all active employees and
pensioners is expected to be completed by 2012. The GoHP is also piloting the use of
budget software since April 2009. Treasury computerization will allow a reduction in the
number of DDOs. Treasury will also improve controls over letters of credit, with all
checks being brought under its control.

   F. Modernizing Public Procurement

Objective and expected outcomes: To institutionalize an efficient procurement system
focused on improving spending.
Rating: moderately satisfactory; procurement legislation has been prepared, but not yet
enacted.
Procurement. The new financial rules (FR) promote electronic procurement of goods
and services, cost- and quality-based bidding, and outsourcing of services. The GoHP has
carried out the procurement performance assessment of the Irrigation and Public Health


                                           10
Department and the HP Civil Supplies Corporation. Good progress has been made in
drafting a new procurement bill, which was presented in April 2009 and wide
consultations with stakeholders took place afterwards, including a workshop in
November 2009 with Bank participation. The revised bill is expected to be introduced in
the state assembly in 2010. The GoHP has agreed to roll out electronic procurement in
five departments in the first phase and another four in the second phase.

      G. Strengthening Accountability

Objective and expected outcomes: strengthen public finance accounting and institutions
of accountability and oversight.
Rating: moderately satisfactory; an audit and accounts committee meets regularly, but
there is no database of the progress in reducing serious audit paragraphs and backlogs.
A standing committee meets regularly to ensure departments take action and reply to
serious audit paragraphs and clear audit backlog. Since August 2009, seven meetings
have been held, but data to evaluate whether this has reduced the backlog is not available.

II. Promoting Key Sectors for Growth, Employment, and Revenue Mobilization
      A. Sustainable Development of Hydropower

Objective and expected outcomes: institutionalizing development of HP's hydropower
potential to address environmental impact and assure greater sustainability; transforming
role of government to that of facilitator; institutionalizing integrated river basin approach;
strengthened environmental management, monitoring and evaluation; integration of
environmental management in project design.
Rating: satisfactory; good progress has been made in catchment area treatments, and the
preparation of a comprehensive CAT plan for the Satluj.
The GoHP has started priority catchment area treatments (CATs) in four large
hydropower projects.3 Expenditure for these activities was ratcheted up four-fold but
the amounts spent are lower than envisaged in the operation because the Forest
Department is building up capacity to implement activities more slowly than envisaged.
The reasons for delay also include adverse climatic conditions, in particular with a severe
drought in FY2009/10. Hydropower producers were also slow to take up their share of
works falling significantly short of the Rs. 60 million mark set for them. There is now
good progress in scaling up the implementation of the CATs and establishing appropriate
monitoring mechanisms. The Forest Department has been strengthened with 48 new staff
positions. It has stepped up monitoring and evaluation by making inspections by field
staff mandatory, and setting up a system for third party monitoring of CATs. The
development of an effective M&E system also forms part of the Satluj CAT plan.



3
    Nathpa Jakhri, Rampur, Kol, and Baspa




                                             11
A consultancy firm is working on an integrated CAT plan for the Satluj basin. The
ongoing work has collected the baseline data for 35 micro watersheds, and created an IT
based comprehensive information system with geo-referenced, micro-watershed-
boundary marked topographical sheets, photographs, and satellite imagery. The GoHP
has also expressed interest to extend a similar methodology to the Ravi and Beas basins
and has solicited expressions of interest from consultants to carry out similar exercises.
The GoHP is also envisaging payments for ecological services to local communities with
a view to preventing grazing and forest fires.
The Satluj basin optimization study has been completed. The GoHP has prepared an
action plan based on the agreed recommendations of the Public Private Infrastructure
Advisory Facility (PPIAF)-financed study and started its implementation. The action plan
has seven components--data sharing, river basin based CAT plan, power evacuation,
development of associated infrastructure, benefit sharing, activating a river basin level
developers' coordination forum, and storage and regulation of river flow.
Transforming the role of government to that of facilitator and regulator. The Forest
Department has outsourced activities to overcome capacity constraints, and has devolved
responsibilities to river valley and watershed development societies and the state's
Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA). The
CAMPA will organize, control and manage funds received for compensatory
afforestation, forest resource management, preservation of wildlife, implementing CATs
etc., and is funded out of monies payable by project developers and user agencies.

   B. Strengthening Hydropower Planning and Management Capacity

Objective and expected outcomes: strengthen capacity towards hydropower planning and
risk management, utilize and manage hydropower revenues, share benefits with
communities.

Rating: moderately satisfactory; a strategy for sustainable development of hydropower
has been prepared, but implementation is pending.

A management study was completed with a view to developing a framework for
investment in new hydropower projects, optimization of revenues, and sharing of
revenues with communities. The study recommends, inter alia, that the GoHP should
involve more prominently the private sector in developing hydropower projects, rather
than invest in the projects itself. The report also lays out proposals for transparent,
effective tendering of projects. Finally, it recommends that social and environmental
safeguards should be upheld for all projects regardless of size (the 2006 hydropower
policy covers only projects above 100 MW). The study recommendations remain under
review.

   C. Improving Effectiveness of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board
      (HPSEB)




                                           12
Objective and expected outcomes: improve internal efficiency of the HPSEB; implement
open access, separation of trade functions and appropriate institutional restructuring.

Rating: moderately satisfactory; open access, separation of trade functions and
restructuring not implemented during the operation, but steps are underway to achieve
these goals shortly.

Reforms of the HPSEB were started late in 2009. To improve internal efficiency and
as a precursor to formal unbundling, the HPSEB was reorganized into five strategic
business units functioning as separate profit centers with independent accounting
systems, and the assets and liabilities of the HPSEB were vested with GoHP for
assignment to the successor companies. The GoHP obtained an extension until June 15,
2010 from the GoI for compliance with the unbundling mandate under the Electricity Act
of 2003. In May 2010, Chief Minister Dhumal signed an order to break up the company
into separate generation, transmission, and distribution arms and transfer the assets of the
HPSEB to the new entities. Discussions with the unions are ongoing.

   D. Promoting Tourist Sector Development

Objective and expected outcomes: develop the tourism sector as a prime engine of
economic growth and livelihood.
Rating: satisfactory; the tourism policy was updated, and the tourism sector is showing
satisfactory growth.
Single window clearance and monitoring. In May 2008, the Single Window Clearance
and Monitoring Authority was set up to handle all tourism project proposals with
investment greater than Rs. 500 million. So far, only one such proposal was made under
the single window system and two more are under preparation. The small number of
investment proposals in tourism remains an area of concern.
Privatization of tourism department properties. In July 2008, GoHP had tendered for
expressions of interest for five properties belonging to the tourism department. However,
when the technical bids were submitted to the infrastructure development board, it was
noted that some unqualified proposals had made it to the shortlist and re-tendering
became necessary.
Development of Tourism Master Plan. To strengthen the GoHP's ability to develop
tourism as an engine of growth and employment creation, it has contracted a consultant in
September 2009 for the development of a Tourism Master Plan as a vision to 2020. The
draft inception report is ready for discussions with stakeholders. The final master plan is
expected to be delivered by September 2010.
Reconstitution of the HP Tourism Development Board (HPTDB). Following the 2008
elections, the HPTDB has been officially reconstituted and its first meeting was held in
July 2009. In the meeting, it was announced that three Tourism Development Councils




                                            13
would be created, with both official and non-official members.4 These would replicate the
Tourism Development Council in Manali which has been functioning well. The process
of notification has started. Progress in other areas include ropeway (cable car) projects, a
home stay scheme,5 skills training, airports and helipads.

III. Promoting Environmentally Sustainable Development
       A. Strengthening the Institutional Framework for Environmentally Sustainable
          Development

Objective and expected outcomes: policy and institutional reforms to promote sustainable
development and improve protection of environment assets; improved environment
management capacity; mainstreaming environmental considerations in planning;
improved sustainability of fragile areas.

Rating: satisfactory; institutional management and mainstreaming of environmental
sustainability has greatly improved.

Environment Department. A Department for Environment, Science and Technology
(DEST) was created in April 2007. An institutional assessment of the environment sector
was carried out by the Bank in May 2009. The department has prepared guidelines to
strengthen environmental management in key high-risk sectors including hydropower,
roads, transport, tourism, housing, industry, and mining. It also organized a Chief
Ministers' Summit on climate change attended by 5 Himalayan states, banned the use of
plastic bags in HP, and supports the use of recycled plastic in road construction.
Permanent staffing for the department and the terms of reference for the staff have been
agreed by the cabinet, but an approval of recruitment terms was still pending at end-May
2010. Because of the stringent controls on recruitment, the new staff will be hired on a
contractual basis.

Environment Master Plan (EMP). After preparing the terms of reference for the EMP
in collaboration with the Bank (they were attached to the PD), the GoHP awarded a
consultancy contract in September 2008 for the preparation of the EMP with a view to
completing it by June 2010. The GoHP held wide stakeholder discussions and inter-
departmental workshop, on the terms of reference for the EMP and the methodology to
be followed for its preparation. The preparation has since then been closely supervised by
the DEST and the Bank team with a focus on ensuring a good-quality product with high
utility value. The DEST has also appointed a high-level technical advisor from the Indian
research community. The department aims at finalizing the EMP be end-July, 2010.

Strengthening community involvement mechanisms. In order to enhance
accountability and community involvement for environment activities at the local level,
environmental issues were included in the Local Area Development Authorities
(LADAs). In this regard, three pilots were initiated by engaging with respective District

4
    These would be Kufri-Naldehra, Dharamsala-McLeodganj and Dalhousie-Khajjiar.
5
    See: http://himachaltourism.gov.in/himachalit/post/Home-Stay-Scheme-2008.aspx




                                                        14
Commissioners (DCs) in the districts of Kullu, Kinnaur, and Bilaspur, covering the
Parbati, Karcham Wangtoo, and Kol dam hydropower projects, respectively. The
experience so far is mixed because of the varying degrees of interest shown by DCs. The
DEST has also launched a Community-Led Assessment, Awareness, Advocacy and
Action Program (CLAP) for environment protection and carbon neutrality through
schools and civil society at Panchayat level. The program is fully funded and supported
by the GoHP.

Enhancing grievance redressal mechanisms. The DEST has taken a very systematic
approach to establish a grievance redress system going beyond actions recommended by
the operation. Using the e-governance program launched by the HP National Informatics
Centre (NIC), the "e-samadhan" portal was launched for more effective accountability
and community involvement, which now includes a portal on complaints related to the
environment. Training of Pollution Control Board (PCB) officials has been prioritized,
given that most complaints and community concerns relate to discrepancies in
environment monitoring, indiscriminate dumping of soil and debris, and regulatory
violations. Additionally, a specific portal on environment management for HP PCB was
replicated from the Gujarat PCB, on April 01, 2009.

   B. Managing Muck and Debris Disposal

Objective and expected outcomes: prevent dumping of muck and eroded material
resulting from construction work on hill sides.

Rating: satisfactory; dumping sites identified and mechanisms implemented to integrate
appropriate disposal in the design of any large construction project.

A directive for high-impact sectors has been issued to various District
Commissioners (DCs). It calls for pre-identification of disposal sites and scientific
disposal of muck and construction debris before award of construction works, in
accordance with the Environment Protection Act. A total of 380 sites have been identified
throughout the state, monitoring protocols have been devised by DEST and DCs have
been advised to issue progress reports on the implementation of disposal plans, violations
and overall performance. The Public Works Department (PWD) has been instructed to
integrate environment management plans including the muck and debris disposal plans in
the planning, design, costing and tendering process of construction of all roads.

IV. Improving the General Business Environment for Private Sector Participation

   A. Addressing the Skills Mismatch

Objective and expected outcomes: improve public sector training system and facilitate
private sector participation in training provision to improve employability of youth;
framework for provision of market based skills to educated youth.
Rating: moderately satisfactory; skills mapping study was completed but implementation
of key recommendations is pending.


                                           15
A management consultant conducted a district-wise skills mapping study. It showed
that by 2015, HP will have generated 350,000 to 4,020,000 new skilled jobs annually
mainly from the pharmaceutical, construction, hospitality, IT, light engineering and
hydropower industries. The study points at skills mismatches and gaps in light of
projections for these sectors to inform the development of the GoHP's skill development
strategy, in particular in secondary and tertiary education.

   B. Promoting Private Sector Development

Objective and expected outcomes: Promote private sector participation and reduce burden
on the state as a provider of employment; improvement in investment attractiveness,
expansion of private enterprise and creation of employment opportunities in the private
sector.
Rating: satisfactory; institutional strengthening activities in the policy matrix were
implemented, but study of business facilitation is delayed; private investment does not
show a clear increasing trend, but this is partly due to the economic slowdown in the
wake of the global financial crisis.
Strengthening the Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Development Authority (BBNDA).
To strengthen planning, business facilitation, and avoid duplication of work and
responsibilities of different departments, a 15-year master plan for development has been
prepared by the BBNDA. The final draft has been sent to the town and country planning
department. It is expected to be tabled in the state legislature in mid-2010.
PPP-based Worker Housing. High cost of housing in the BBN Area impedes the
development of businesses because it constrains the number of workers available. Two
projects for the construction of hostels for the pharmaceuticals industry with 1,000 beds
each--one for men, one for women--are underway in Baddi.

Enactment of Industrial Area Development Act and New Town and Country
Planning (TCP) Act. The draft was formalized and presented to the state's council of
ministers. which gave partial approval. A sub-committee of ministers was formed to
study the draft bill. Some sections require clarifications from GoI. The draft bill is slated
to be tabled in the legislature later this year.
Study to Evaluate Business Facilitation Measures. The Industries Department is
evaluating the business facilitation measures in-house. Investment proposals are being
tracked at each stage of the approval process, and a new email-based process of
continuous interaction with each potential investor has been initiated.
Progress on single window system. The single window system is progressing
satisfactorily, and single window meetings under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister
are held every month. The pre-single window sub-committee meeting (comprising
Director Industries, Pollution Control Board, State Electricity Board and other
departments as required) is held regularly, and this system has been found to work very
well.



                                             16
Land Bank. To tackle the crucial issue of availability of industrial land, a database has
been created of government- and privately-owned land available for prospective
entrepreneurs. While the government land will be made available by the industries
department, the department will only provide facilitation services to investors for
negotiating the acquisition of privately owned land. Details of the land are available on
the GoHP website. 6
Revision of Industrial Policy. In February 2009, the state industrial policy was
modified. Substantial changes were made to improve transparency; streamlining and
simplification of procedures; and flexibility to modernize, renovate and sell assets.7
Funding of Industrial Area Development Authorities (IADAs). For strengthening
urban infrastructure in new and existing industrial areas, lack of funding of IADAs (other
than BBNDA which has adequate funds) has been a key constraint. In an important step,
via the modifications to the Industrial Policy in February 2009, more sources of revenue
will now become available to IADAs that earlier accrued to the government.
Additionally, draft revisions to the IADA bye-laws (pertaining to decentralization of
powers for raising funds, increased self governance etc.) are expected to be notified in the
next 6 months.
Skills training. A new training institute for the pharmaceutical sector has been initiated
as a partnership between GoHP and the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. It
will train 800 students per year in two 6-month batches. The GoHP has provided a vacant
building, and the Manufacturers Association has provided equipment, machines and
training support. Training is expected to start in July 2010.

V. Strengthening Governance and Public Administration
       A. Improving the Efficiency of Civil Services

Objective and expected outcomes: reform the civil service and enhance administrative
efficiency; increase stability of tenure and improve service delivery orientation.
Rating: satisfactory; functional reforms have been implemented and stability of tenure
has greatly increased.
Transfers. State civil services and departmental cadres have experienced very low rates
of transfers in FY2009/10. Approximately less than two percent of the total regular staff
strength of 230,000 was transferred in FY2009/10, which is significantly below the target
of 6 percent agreed under the operation. The IAS has also shown very low rates of
transfers, with 86 percent of IAS officers from HP enjoying stability of tenure (i.e. more
than two years in a position).
Functional reforms in five departments. Action plans were prepared in close
consultation with five departments on how to proceed with organizational reforms and
staff realignments. The process of preparing the reviews and action plans was highly

6
    http://himachal.nic.in/industry/landbank.htm.
7
    For more details: http://himachal.nic.in/industry/indpol99.htm


                                                            17
participatory and driven by the support and active involvement of the Chief Secretary.
Below are some reforms that have been implemented.
Forest department. The government has now notified a new timber distribution policy
that dramatically reduces the amount of timber local residents are allowed to extract,
raises the cost of timber, and reduces the frequency of extraction for house construction.
The government has also bolstered enforcement with new police stations. The
government has abolished 17 cadres where positions will not be filled after the holder
retires.
Health department. A health insurance program has been introduced for Below Poverty
Line (BPL) cardholders (an estimated 298,312 families in HP). So far, the program has
reached about 87,000 families, with premiums shared between the GoI (75 percent) and
the GoHP (25 percent). In addition, the GoHP has introduced incentives for doctors who
serve in remote areas by giving them preferential consideration for admission to post-
graduate courses for specialization in the state's medical colleges. The state has
completed a mapping exercise designed to deploy doctors across medical facilities in a
more rational fashion, but the shortage of doctors overall is a constraint limiting its full
implementation.
Education department. The GoHP has completed a school mapping exercise with a view
to meeting the norm of a minimum of two teachers per school. It is also hiring teachers
on contract and making them directly accountable to school management committees
(SMCs), which consist of parents and teachers.
Irrigation and Public Health. About 1,240 stand-pipes were handed over to Panchayati
Raj Institutions for operation and maintenance. The massive cadre of work-charged
(temporary) employees has been abolished, and work-charged employees regularized
earlier (some 18,000 were regularized in FY2005/06) will not be replaced when they
retire. The department has created a committee to rationalize staffing through outsourcing
or abolishing redundant categories by June, 2010. The department is also considering
revising work norms for different categories of staff to reflect technical change and other
factors.
Public Works Department. The department does not plan to replace employees who have
been regularized in the past (32,000 have been regularized and another 12,000 will be
eligible for regularization after completing eight years of service). New recruitment of
work-charged or irregular employees has been stopped. The department expects to do all
tendering electronically within two years. It also intends to restructure itself functionally
by creating special wings for planning, design, human resource management, and
finance. Road maintenance is now being outsourced to private companies, which is
however posing a new challenge of effective supervision to the department.

   B. Enhancing Transparency and Accountability in Government

Objective and expected outcomes: improve transparency and better accountability of
service providers; improve access to services and government monitoring of service
delivery.


                                             18
Rating: satisfactory. The GoHP has done particularly well in implementing the Right to
Information Act in the state.

Right to Information. According to a study by Transparency International in 2005, HP
was the second least corrupt state in India after Kerala. The number of applications for
information under the RTI Act has risen dramatically from 2,654 in FY2006/07 to 17,868
in FY2008/09. Only 1.6 percent of applications filed in FY2008/09 resulted in a
complaint or appeal to the State Information Commission, indicating that in almost all
cases the information requested was given by the local public information officer. In
addition, all IAS officers have declared their property holdings publicly via the internet.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: moderately satisfactory.

Good progress in achieving major development objectives in institution building
and strengthening is contrasted with continuing difficulties in maintaining
macroeconomic stability. Fiscal objectives regarding the overall deficit and the
composition of spending are off track although important measures on revenue
mobilization and expenditure compression were supported under the operation and
implemented in a timely fashion to contain the slippages, without which the situation
would probably have become more precarious. The GoHP has identified additional
corrective action that could lead them back on the path towards achieving the operation's
objectives in the next few years. On the brighter side, the public financial management
reform targets have been mostly met. Reforms regarding environmental management,
hydropower optimization, catchment area treatments and plans, and governance and
institutional reform were met.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The operation contributed to strengthening community participation in hydropower
development and revenue. Under the GoHP's power policy, developers set aside 1.5
percent of the project cost towards local development under the Local Area Development
Authorities. The hydropower strategy study also discusses suggestions for better benefit
sharing with local communities for example by setting aside a fraction of the revenue
stream from particular projects.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The operation resulted in the mainstreaming of the environment into policy making,
enhancing the capacity to implement environmental mitigation activities, and in
reforming public financial management. The DEST created under the operation gives a
strong voice to environmental issues. The environmental master plan and sectoral



                                            19
guidelines under preparation will provide direction by mainstreaming environmental
protection and conservation in development projects. Hydropower optimization under
river basin management will maximize revenue from the electricity generated, while
ensuring minimum standards for maintenance of river ecology. The geological
information system created as part of the CAT plan provides a long-term basis for actions
against soil erosion and river siltation, as well as monitoring of the Satluj catchment area.
Changes in the Forest Department have strengthened its ability to carry out these
activities, including through outsourcing. By institutionalizing this approach for the Satluj
basin, the operation raised the awareness and sensitivity for sustainable management of
the state's hydropower resources. The GoHP is now applying the Satluj model to other
river basins. Under PFM reforms, new financial and procurement rules, greater control
over treasury payments, and the use of budget software will make spending more
effective.

One of the main achievements of the program supported by the operation was the
establishment of close collaboration between different government departments. The
DPL provided a mechanism to bring together different actors and achieve changes that
cut across departments. For example, CATs are now being implemented by the Forest
Department under guidance from the environment department and in collaboration with
the public works department and its hydropower projects.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: moderate.

The program focused on the appropriate development issues as identified during the
extensive analytical work during preparation. In particular, the focus on the
strengthening of environment management, and public expenditure reforms was
appropriate. The actions initiated under the program in the environment and hydropower
areas were ambitious in their time frame. During extensive supervision, the Bank's team
could ascertain that critical activities such as the preparation of the EMP or the
strengthening of CATs and preparation of a river basin-wide CAT plan were fully owned
by the GoHP. It has not only financed these activities through its own resources but has
demonstrated a high level of commitment through policy statements and actions. The risk
to development outcomes envisaged in these components--mainly from a loss of
political support that is crucial for maintaining the momentum-- is low.

However, the fiscal situation continues to be precarious after some initial
improvement. It is partly outside of the control of the GoHP, because of the economic
slowdown and fiscal stimulus measures. The near-term outlook is clouded by lower-than-
anticipated awards from the 13th Finance Commission. The measures identified to
improve revenue (entry tax and higher VAT rates) and further wage bill compression are
likely to provide relief, but risks remain high. Most notably, the entry tax could be
contested in court. The GoHP would do well to develop contingency scenarios to avoid
having to make painful, unplanned expenditure cuts further on. Strengthening own




                                             20
revenue through the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax, non-tax revenue and
hydropower revenue will be key to improving fiscal sustainability.

Continuing steadfast implementation of plans will be crucial to ensure long-term
benefits from the operation. The EMP currently has strong support from the highest
political level, which hopefully will continue. With regard to hydropower optimization, it
is not yet clear to what extent hydropower operators will abide by the plan on
optimization, information sharing, and maintenance of minimum flows in rivers, with
some court cases pending although such coordination is mutually beneficial. On the other
hand, institutional mechanisms have been created to make the Geographical Information
System (GIS) available across departments, and maintain it by continuously entering data
as it becomes available.

The GoHP in its comments on the ICR stressed that it is extremely keen to
institutionalize the efforts made by it as part of the DPL engagement. It specifically
mentioned areas of PFM, managing environmental aspects of hydropower development,
improving effectiveness of environmental management and implementing the
Environment Master Plan. The GoHP is also committed to making further progress on the
issues of improving coordination and optimization of sustainable hydropower
development of the Satluj Basin.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: moderately satisfactory

From the outset, the Bank assured itself of the implementing agencies' capacity to
implement the program. The operation was informed by significant analytical work,
including a number of Bank notes, as well as work done by GoHP. Significantly, GoHP
was able to fund analytical work when outside funding was unavailable. The documents
assisted in the design of the operation and enabled the Bank team to be proactive in the
design of a robust yet flexible and realistic program of support in a difficult environment.

However, there are a few areas of weakness in the design and preparation of the
operation, as listed below.

   ·   The PD does not fully address the reputational risk for the Bank of being
       associated with potentially controversial aspects of hydropower development. It
       could have explained more clearly that all major decisions regarding allocation of
       project licenses and project preparation including environmental impact
       assessments and mitigation plans had largely been taken at the time of inception
       of the DPL or were outside its realm. While it has to be recognized that the
       operation strengthened sensitivity and voice for the environment and that the



                                            21
       hydropower policy will be integrated in the environment master plan, the stated
       objective under II.A. `institutionalizing development of HP's hydropower
       potential to address environmental impact and assure greater sustainability' is too
       far-reaching in this context. The actions--while they improve institutional
       capacity for and implementation of environmental remediation activities--are
       much narrower and more modest in focus.

   ·   The Bank may have overestimated the institutional strength to conduct strategic
       studies and prepare plans, and the impact of some studies--even where they were
       carried out--is not clear. The PD's policy matrix is somewhat overloaded with
       such studies, and a few have not been carried out or are being carried out later
       than envisaged (eg. VAT evaluation study). Progress was made nevertheless in
       some structural reforms that would have been supported by the studies.

(b) Quality of Supervision

   Rating: satisfactory

The Bank has been proactive and played a supportive role through its intensive
policy dialogue with HP. In particular, during the transition phase following the 2008
election, an intensive engagement seems to have contributed to the success of most parts
of the operation. Frequent supervision missions and continued interaction with the GoHP
regarding the status of the operation led to renewed vigor and implementation of the
actions under the policy matrix.

In particular, in May 2008, the Bank team assessed that the GoHP's performance
was `marginally unsatisfactory' and worked with the government to bring the
operation back on track. The macro-economic framework was off track and
implementation of catchment area treatments and the preparation of the environment
master plan were progressing slowly. The fiscal deficit for FY2008/09 was unsustainable
and did not conform to the agreed medium-term fiscal policy framework. It was agreed
that the fiscal situation had to be monitored on a half-yearly basis and corrective steps
would be required. During a September 2008 supervision mission, the fiscal situation had
not improved and the Bank team indicated that failure to meet agreed benchmarks would
lead to a delay of the release of the second tranche beyond the closing date of March 31,
2009.

Corrective measures were identified and communicated to the government. A
steering committee led by HP's Chief Secretary was recommended for better
coordination of the program and providing guidance on the evolving fiscal situation. The
Bank team closely supervised the operation providing support with frequent reviews, and
consultations with the GoHP, and detailed aide memoires identifying areas requiring
attention. For instance, at the suggestion of the Bank team, the GoHP appointed a well-
known technical expert to work with the consultants already preparing the environment
master plan. The implementation of CAT plan activities was reviewed and it was agreed
that some scaling back of financial targets in favor of better implementation was required.



                                            22
In March 2009, the Bank team found improved implementation progress in
addressing the fiscal deficit, CAT plan activities and the preparation of environment
master plan. This resulted in an upgrade of the project implementation rating to
satisfactory status in July 2009 and retroactive extension of the closing date of the
operation to December 31, 2009. Throughout the operation the Bank team worked
proactively with the government in identifying solutions to remedy implementation
difficulties.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

   Rating: satisfactory

All the key reforms supported by the operation for the first tranche release were
implemented prior to Board approval, and second tranche conditions were met by
September 2009. The reform program has been owned by the GoHP, and is backed by
political commitment at the highest level. Key policy papers that underpin the policy
program have been approved by the cabinet. At the political level, state elections
resulting in a change in leadership halted progress of the operation for at least 6 months
in late 2007 and early 2008. Fortunately, with Bank engagement, the new leadership took
full ownership of the operation and re-started implementation with vigor.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

   Rating: moderately satisfactory.

Departments largely implemented actions as envisaged, with some delays, as highlighted
above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

   Rating: moderately satisfactory.

The operation was successful in most of its main pillars, most notably in promoting key
sectors for growth, employment, and revenue generation, in particular through more
efficient and sustainable development of hydropower and tourism; promoting the
institutional framework for environmental sustainability; strengthening governance and
public administration, in particular through addressing staffing issues; and improving the
general business environment. The fiscal sustainability remains an issue of concern.

6. Lessons Learned

The operation has shown that significant progress towards strengthening
institutions and giving voice to environmental sustainability is possible under
difficult conditions. As with other operations, the success of this major pillar of the



                                           23
HPDPL relied to a large extent on the commitment and ownership shown not only by the
political authorities at the highest level but also by executing agencies. A wide consensus
regarding the importance of the reforms existed, as attested by the steadfast
implementation of the operation soon after the change in government following the
elections. The authorities acknowledge that the framework set by the operation enabled
them to overcome inertia and obstacles and press forward in a timely manner. On the
other hand, the continuing fiscal difficulties experienced in HP show that the operation
could not fully eliminate the structural deficit, which is the legacy of a low revenue base,
and a high burden of debt, salaries, and pensions in the state. However, intensive
supervision by the Bank team and pressure exerted by the operation's deadlines
supported implementation of mitigating actions, without which slippages would have
been larger.

Under the operation, a broad range of coordinated reforms was carried out by
numerous implementing agencies. This attests to the implementation capacity of the
GoHP, the high-level political support the operation enjoyed, and the quality of
supervision. The broad coverage to a large extent followed the GoHP's own ambitious
agenda. For future operations, the Bank should gauge carefully whether similarly
propitious conditions exist, or whether a narrower focus on core areas carries a higher
likelihood of success.

Many of the reforms and institution building efforts supported under the operation
will take time to gestate the expected results. Time under the operation was adequate
for setting processes in motion, but steadfast continued progress in implementing action
plans and strategies is needed to improve the development process. In particular on the
fiscal side, a framework has been created within which fiscal consolidation will occur
gradually with the attrition of redundant workers, under tight hiring constraints, and
improvements in expenditure monitoring and control due to the PFM reforms. In
addition, revenue will increase as new hydropower projects come onstream. Similarly, it
remains to be seen to what extent the EMP influences decision making in the future. It is
noteworthy that several smaller hydropower projects were recently cancelled in view of
environmental and social concerns. Under CATs, measurement of silt in HP's rivers will
show over time whether soil erosion was reduced in a significant manner. It is hoped that
the end of the operation, and therefore a major scaling down of the Bank's engagement
with the GoHP, will not mean that support for the reforms supported by the operation will
falter. The medium- to long-term nature of most of the objectives puts into question the
relatively short timeframe of the operation.




                                            24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

The GoHP pointed out that the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission
recommendations on salary and pension increases have substantially impacted the
GoHP's capacity to limit revenue expenditure. The government added that the 13th
Finance Commission in its recommendations failed to take into account states' arrears
arising from the retroactive pay and pension increases awarded by the 6th Pay
Commission. The 13th Finance Commission also allowed only a 2 percent increase in
salary expenditure for 2010-15, which did not account for normal Dearness Allowance
increases. The GoHP stressed that this resulted in an incorrect estimation of GoHP's
expenditure. Nonetheless, the GoHP believes that additional measures will put the fiscal
program back in track in FY2010/11. These include measures to raise own tax and non-
tax revenue especially from VAT and new hydropower projects, and to compress the
wage bill by suitable use of existing manpower by redeploying and reskilling staff.

The GoHP also confirmed its commitment to institutionalize the efforts made under the
operation in the areas of PFM, managing environmental aspects of hydropower
development, improving effectiveness of environmental management and in
implementing the environment master plan. It is also committed to making further
progress on the issues of improving coordination and optimization of sustainable
hydropower development of the Satluj basin.


(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           25
Annex 1 : Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
 Richard Damania          Lead Environmental Economist       SASDI
 Sonia Chand Sandhu       Sr Environmental Spec.             SASDI
 Vikram Raghavan          Sr Counsel                         LEGES
 Ananya Basu              Senior Economist                   SASEP
 Ashish Bhateja           Senior Procurement Spec.           OPCPR
Mohan Nagarajan           Senior Economist                   SASGP
 Vikram K. Chand          Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.       SASGP
 Tanuj Mathur             Sr Financial Management Spec.      SARFM
 Rohit Mittal             Financial Analyst                  SASDE
 Tapas Paul               Sr Environmental Spec.             SASDI
 Syed I. Ahmed            Lead Counsel                       LEGES
Puja Vasudeva Dutta       Social Protection Economist        SASSP
Neha Kaul                 Research Analyst                   SASPR
Daniel M. Sellen          Sr Agriculture Economist           SASAR
Inderbir Dhingra          Private Sector Dev. Spec.          SASPF
Jyoti Sriram              Program Assistant                  SASPF
Judith K. Plummer         Sr Financial Analyst               SASDE
Sangeeta Goyal            Education Economist                SASHD


Supervision
Syed I. Ahmed             Lead Counsel                       LEGES
Ananya Basu               Senior Economist                   SASEP
Ashish Bhateja            Senior Procurement Spec.           OPCPR
Mohan Nagarajan           Senior Economist                   SASGP
Vikram K. Chand           Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.       SASGP
Sonia Chand Sandhu        Sr Environmental Spec.             SASDI
Pyush Dogra               Environmental Spec.                SASDI
Sangeeta Goyal            Education Economist                SASED
Shiny Jaison              Program Assistant                  SASGP
Suhail Kassim             Private Sector Development Spec.   SASFP
Tanuj Mathur              Sr Financial Management Spec.      SARFM
Rohit Mittal              Financial Analyst                  SASDE
Tapas Paul                Sr Environmental Spec.             SASDI
Judith K. Plummer         Sr Financial Analyst               SASDE
Vikram Raghavan           Sr Counsel                         LEGES
Anand Kumar Srivastava    Procurement Spec.                  SARPS




                                         26
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                      35                        73.40
  FY08                                      37                       115.82

                          Total:            72                       189.22
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                      28                        83.89
  FY09                                      58                         0.00

                          Total:            86                        83.89




                                       27
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                       28
29
30
                              76°                                                                77°                                                     78°


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INDIA

             33°
                                                          Kilar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HIMACHAL PRADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     33°


                                         Tisa
                                                                                                                                     Lintig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                                                       Udaipur                                                                                                                                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                               Cha
                                  CHAMBA                             Ch
                                                                          ena                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                                                                 Keylong




                                                                                                                                ndr
                                                                                bR
                                                                                   ive   r
                                      Chamba




                                                                                                                                  aR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STATE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                       er




                                                                                                                                     iv
                                            Ravi River
                                                                                                                                              LAHUL & SPITI                                                                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                  Brahmaur                                         Khoksar
                                  Chauri Khas                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                         Spit
                   Nurpur            Sihunta                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                           iR
                                                                                                                                                             ive
                                                                                                              Manali                                               r
                            Kotla                  Dharmshala                                                                                                              Kaza
                                Draman
                   Indora                                                                                   s Riv
                                                                                                                  er
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA
                                                                 Bhawarna                                                                                                                                                          ELEVATION (in meters)
                                     KANGRA
                                                                                                           Bea


                                                                                 Jogindernagar                                                                                                                                                 Glacier
             32°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     32°
                                            Ranital
                                                                    Jaisinghpur                                                                                                                                                                6.000
                                           Lambagraon                                                    Kullu
                                                                            Beas
                                                                                                                        KULLU                                                               Nako
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.500
                                                                                   Riv
                                                                                         e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.000
                                                                                             r




                                                     Nadaun                                                                                                                                 Puh
                              Amb                                   Sarkhagat                    Mandi
                                                Hamirpur                                                                                                                                                                                       1.900
                                                                                                                                                                           KINNAUR
                                    Bangana                                                      MANDI                                                                                                                                         1.350
                                                    HAMIRPUR                                                             Banjar                        Sutlej R                             Morang
                                                                                                                                                                ive
                                    UNA Barsar                                  Kalkhar                                                                                r                                                                       900
                                                                                                   Chachyot                                                                       Reckong Peo
                                                                                                                                                         Niehar
                                     Una                                                                                                                                                                                                       600
                                                                           Ghumarwin                          Karsog                          Rampur                               Sangla
                                    Mehatpur
                                                           BILASPUR                                                                                                                                                                            300
                                                                                Bilaspur
                                                                                                                               Kumharsain               Sandhasu
                                                                                                         Seoni
                                                                                                                                        Rohru
                                                                                                                        SHIMLA
                                                                                    Arki               SHIMLA Theog
                                                             e                                                                                Deorha
                                                 Sutlej Ri v                                                                   Kothkhai
                                                           r




             31°                                                            SOLAN
                                                             Nalagarh                                                                                                                                                                                                                31°
                                                                                                                                            Chaupal
                                                                                  Kasauli                Solan
                                                                                   Kumarhatti                                           Nerua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0          75         150 Kilometers
                                                                                                           SIRMAUR
                                                                                                             Sarahan
                                                                                                                              Shalai
                                                                                                                          Dadahu
                                                                                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                       Nahan                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 35401
                                                                                                                                                                                                             on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
APRIL 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                                             judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                             acceptance of such boundaries.
                            76°                                                              77°                                                         78°
