Report No. PIC2816
Project Name                   Azerbaijan-Farm Privatization Pilot...
Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     AZPA40544
Borrower                       Republic of Azerbaijan
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture
No. 4. Sh. Kurbonov Street, BAKU
Mr. Irshad N. Aliyev, Minister of
Agriculture
(9-9412) 94-53-55 or 94- 98-01 - phone
(9-9412) - fax
Date Initial PID Prepared      May 26, 1995
Date This PID Prepared         October 20, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       January 11, 1996
Projected Board Date           June , 1996
Country and Sector Background
1.   Agriculture is a major contributor to GDP, employment and trade.
The sector contributed between 26 and 30 percent of GDP; between 34 and
38 percent of employment; and about 30 percent of total exports mostly
generated from cotton, fruits and vegetables since 1990. Agriculture is
dependent on irrigation and imports of key inputs namely hybrid seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, farm machinery and equipment. The agricultural
sector has been on a declining trend since 1991. Real agricultural
output declined by 13 percent in 1994 following declines of 12 and
percent in the preceding two years and yields have dropped by 30 percent
or more for grain, cotton, grapes and tobacco. The overall contribution
of agriculture to exports has also declined from about 30 percent to
about 10 percent in 1994.
Objectives
2.   The main objectives of the proposed pilot project are: (i) to
assist the Government to implement a pilot privatization program of
representative state and collective farms in a systematic manner;
(ii) improve the operations of the most important support services, viz,
land registration system, farm information and advisory system, critical
off-farm and on-farm infrastructure necessary to sustain privatized
agriculture; (iii) to develop suitable financing mechanisms for public
infrastructure and private investments for a market oriented
agricultural system; and (iv) build a team work ethic in the key
institutions involved in land privatization and farm restructuring.
Project Description



3.   The project would consist of two components to be implemented over
a period of three years. These are: (a) Farm Privatization Support
Services; and (b) Post Privatization Support for Farms.
(a)  Farm Privatization Support Services.      This component would
provide essential institution building support services needed
for privatization at the federal level and in the selected
raions of Barda, Lenkaran, Salyan, Udjhar and Xachmas. It
will consist of three sub-components: (i) Land Registration
Services; (ii) Farm Support Services; and (iii) Project
Management and Implementation.
(i) Land Registration Services: The land registration
services component would establish the mechanisms needed
for the development of land markets, legal rights to
private ownership of land and issue tradeable land titles
for the emerging private farm structures. This would be
undertaken by strengthening the State Land Committee at
the Federal level and in the five selected raions. This
component will support the development of a juridical
cadastre and establish an automated system of land
registration based on parcels or units of land that have
been allocated in accordance with the land privatization
process. The land registration system will be supported
by land mapping and surveying through: (a) the
preparation of legal cadastre mapping; and (b) the
densification of the geodetic survey control and field
surveys.
(ii) Farm Support Services. This sub-component would provide
the necessary support services for the pilot state and
collective farms to undergo the privatization process and
to operate as independent units in a market economy. It
will provide two broad types of services: (a) farm
privatization services; and (b) post privatization
services.
(a) Farm Privatization Services. The following
types of services will be provided: (i) assisting
the pilot farms through the privatization process
in accordance with the guiding principles for farm
privatization (ii) assisting the farm employees in
following the procedures for obtaining land, clear
titles to land and registration of the state acts
to ensure protection of property rights; (iii)
assisting the farm employees in the evaluation of
various types of re-organization options; (iv)
develop linkages with the Agricultural Academy at
Ganja for technical back-stopping and technical
research support and (v) developing a program for
the divestiture of social assets and assisting in
their transfer to local administration.
Information units will be also be set up in each of
the raion Agrokombinats and in the Ministry of
Agriculture in Baku to provide various types of
- 2 -



information on privatization procedures, farm
business plans, technical aspects, etc.
(b) Post Privatization Farm Support Services. The
following types of services will be provided: (i)
assisting the farm employees in evaluating various
types of business plans for crops and livestock
activities; (ii) assisting in the preparation of
applications for submission to the Farm Development
Fund set up under the project; (iii) assist the new
private farming units to procure essential farm
inputs from input supply agencies; (iv) prepare
detailed designs for on-farm irrigation and
drainage works and farm access roads; (v) develop
programs for vulnerable groups affected by the
restructuring of the pilot farms; and (vi) provide
feedback to the Ministry of Agriculture on the
bottlenecks hindering farm privatization and its
sustainability.
(iii)     Project Management and Implementation.   The project
will support the establishment of: (i) a project
management unit in the MOA at the Federal level in
Baku and Project implementation units (PIU) in each
of the raions; and (ii) strengthen the raion level
department of agriculture (Agrokombinat) and set up
Farm Development Units (FDU) in each of the
participating raions to coordinate the support
services needed for farm privatization and post-
privatization.
(b) Post-Privatization Support for farms. This component would
support: (i) On-farm Investment; (ii) Seasonal Working
Capital; (iii) Inter-farm Rehabilitation and Development; and
(iv) Development of vulnerable groups.
(i)       The on-farm investments would consist of: (a)
rehabilitation of critical Irrigation and Drainage
works and farm access roads; (b) Farm Equipment in
order for the newly privatized farms to operate as
independent units;
(ii) Seasonal working capital would be provided for essential
farm inputs, such as seeds, fertilizer,   labor, fuel,
machinery services, transport and marketing services;
(iii)     The inter-farm rehabilitation and development would
consist of the re-alignment of existing canals and
drainage works to serve private farming on a number
of plots; introduce improved water distribution
systems and set up appropriate institutional
mechanisms such as water user's association for the
efficient allocation and management of water
resources; and
-3-



(iv) Development of Vulnerable Groups. The main objective of
this sub-component is to assist the affected community at
all levels of the farm privatization process by
developing a suitable programs to improve their socio-
economic status. The project will: (a) Undertake a
demographic survey to identify the target groups of the
five farms to be privatized, collect and analyze the data
on the social indicators; and determine the scope and
nature of the problem of the target groups; (b) carry out
a participatory assessment of the farm families which
would result in developing suitable programs for
retraining and resettlement; and prepare specific small
scale business activities which could merit project
support under the Farm Development Fund; (c) evaluate the
privatization process to ensure that the procedures,
guidelines and associated laws would, as for as possible,
result in equitable distribution of land and non-land
assets; and (d) recommend ways of divesting the social
sphere activities for implementation by raion
administration.
Project Financing
4.   The project is expected to cost US$23.7 million based on June 1995
prices and the prevailing exchange rate of US$1.00 = 4500 manat, where
applicable. The foreign exchange component has been estimated at
US$14.0 million or 59 percent of the total project cost. This cost
includes physical and price contingencies. It does not include duties
and taxes, as it is assumed that the goods and services to be procured
under this project would be exempted. These costs, however, are
preliminary and will be modified following further discussions during
the pre-appraisal mission and the data requested by the preparation
mission.
Project Implementation
5.   The implementation of the project will be carried out by three
principle agencies of the Government. They are: (i) Ministry of
Agriculture; (ii) State Land Committee; and (iii) State Irrigation
Committee. Each of these agencies will operate through their line
departments at the raion level. The coordination of the activities will
be undertaken by the Project Management Unit at the Federal level and
the Project Implementation Units in each of the five selected raions.
The farm support services will be carried out by existing staff of the
Department of Agriculture (Agrokombinat). The State Land Committee will
provide the land registration services. The State Irrigation committee
will be responsible for the design, operation and maintenance of the
Irrigation and Drainage system. The construction of physical works
will be carried out by public and private sector contractors. The farm
development fund will be set up as a financial intermediary vehicle to
finance on-farm investments which will be managed by an independent
management team working with Agroprombank.
Sustainability
-4-



6.   The immediate benefit of the project would be the development of
institutional capability at the federal and raion levels to address the
operational issues of farm privatization and to learn from the
experience of various types of models to be tried out under this pilot
project. The provision of public infrastructure support, on-farm
support services and the implementation of agricultural reform policies
are expected to provide the necessary incentives for increasing farm
profitability and income levels of the newly privatized farms. However,
the sustainability of the project hinges on the ability of the
Government to enact a suitable land law which would provide security of
land tenure in the near term and create land markets.
Lessons Learned From The Past Operations In The Country
7.   This will be the first Bank agricultural project in Azerbaijan.
Bank's experience with farm restructuring and farmer support services
throughout the world suggest that: (i) high-level national and regional
political commitment is critical to project success; (ii) the
administrative technical linkages between agencies and their role in the
implementation of the project must be clearly defined and agreed; and
(iii) the project need to provide for adequate technical assistance and
training for local capacity building in project preparation and
implementation. Earlier experiences in implementing Bank projects in
the former Soviet Union dictate that the project should initially be of
pilot in scale, with a scope for expansion to larger scale only when the
success of the initial activities is clearly confirmed. These lessons
are being taken into account in designing the proposed project to the
extent applicable and practical.
Poverty Category
8.   Farm re-organization, by definition could result in the efficient
use of labor and shed excess labor, thereby adding to the raions' social
safety net obligations. The extent of this impact and the poverty
category will be assessed during the preparation mission.
Environmental Aspects
9.   The project is expected to be classified in environmental category
"B".   The project will have a positive impact on the environment.    It
would help improve water use efficiency, check the process of
salinization and water logging, arrest the process of land degradation
and enable more prudent use of land. It is expected to foster more
prudent use of land. The ownership of land assets is expected to
instill a greater sense of individual and community responsibility and
collectively take measures to protect the environment. The land use map
using modern aerial survey will enhance the ability to integrate data
sets into the land register with beneficial applications for monitoring
and control of the environment.
Program Objective Category
10. The principal program objective category is private sector
development through privatization of collective and state farms, provide
greater opportunity to private farmers in the management of and in
- 5-



commercial decision making process at the farm level within the overall
goal of market economy.
Project Benefits
11. The expected quantifiable benefits are: (i) increase in net
returns sufficient to justify the proposed working capital and long-term
investments, such as on-farm investments, rehabilitation of essential
irrigation works and farm access roads; (ii) increase in cultivable area
through reclamation of abandoned areas - the cultivable area is
expected to increase by about 30 percent from 7640 hectares to 9830
hectares at the end of the three year project period; (iii) increase in
employment opportunities as the farms begin to right size,as new types
of services would be required in the areas of machinery repair
services, leasing services, transport and marketing services, small
scale processing units, small - scale household activities, etc; and
(iv) a positive fiscal impact on the Government's budget through the
incorporation of various forms of costs recovery mechanisms for
Government provided services.
Project Risks
12. The project faces following four main risks.
(a) Project Replicability. The first risk relates to the extent to
which the incentives, procedures, policies, investments and
selection criteria used in this project could be replicated
to other parts of the country, for, herein, lies the success
of the project. Although the pilot farms have been chosen to
be representative and have agreed to the principles of farm
restructuring, there is a risk that some may not co-operate.
In this event, the project would provide for other farms in
the raion to participate who are willing to go through the
agreed processes and procedures. In addition, the project's
emphasis on periodic public dissemination of the privatization
and restructuring process throughout the raion and in other
parts of the country is expected to jump start other
privatization initiatives.
(b)       Sustaining financial viability of privatized farms.    The
second risk is the continued ability of the privatized
farm units to operate as financially viable operations
and be able to service the working capital and investment
loans. In this regard, the financial analysis, based on
conservative yield increases and current market prices,
reveals that the "new privatized farms" would be able to
generate sufficient cash flows to repay loans. The
implementation of the Government's price and trade
liberalization policies, expected macro-economic
stabilization in the near term, resolution of border
conflicts and opening of marketing channels is expected
to sustain the financial viability of the privatized
farms. As further assurance the project will seek a
commitment from the Government to provide the necessary
enabling policy environment in the five selected raions,
- 6 -



which would focus on complete liberalization of input and
output prices, elimination of state quotas and removal of
trade restrictions on agricultural inputs and outputs.
(c) Co-ordination and sequencing of pre- and post- privatization
activities. The third risk is the ability of the Government
to co-ordinate the various tasks, sequencing and timely
delivery of the services required for farm privatization and
restructuring to take place. A clear assignment of the
Ministerial/departmental/agency responsibilities and
supervision by the Project Steering Committee is expected to
mitigate the co-ordination problem.
(d) Lack of implementation experience. The fourth risk relates to
potential delays in project implementation due to lack of
experience of the implementing agencies in IDA/IFAD
procedures; obtaining Government agreement to the various
criteria, funding mechanisms and co-financing arrangements.
The project has taken steps to commence project start up
activities through training of key officials in various
project related areas; obtaining the most important agreements
and commitments from the Government before negotiations and
involving IFAD at an early stage of project processing to
avoid delays in finalizing co-financing arrangements.
Task Manager:
T.V. Sampath, EC3AI
(202) 473-7715 (tel)
(202) 477-3291 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country                        AZERBAIJAN
Project Name                   Farm Privatization Pilot Project
Appraisal Date                 January 11,1996
Board Date                     June , 1996
-7-



Managing Division              EC3AI
Lending Instruments            IDA
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank
TBD
EA Category (A/B/C)            B
Project ID                     AZPA40544
Total Project Cost             US$16.0 million
Task Manager                   T.V. Sampath
Sector                         Agriculture
Status                         TBD
Date Assigned                  TBD
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated    October 20, 1995
(Please do not leave any items blank:   use "N/A" or "To be developed"
when appropriate)
Major Project Components:   (presents description of project components)
The project would consist of two components to be implemented over a
period of three years. These are: (i) Farm Privatization Support
Services; and (ii) Post Privatization Support for Farms.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues
identified or suspected in project)
The proposed pilot project is expected to have a positive impact on
the environment. The project deals with land privatization,
improving the water use efficiency, checking the process of
salinization and water logging and arresting the process of land
degradation. The project is expected to foster more prudent use of
land, particularly agricultural land, farming practices with
greater sense of individual and community responsibility for the
environment.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser
scope associated with project)
The land use map using modern techniques will enhance the ability
to integrate data sets into the land register with beneficial
applications for monitoring and control of the environment.
Proposed Actions:    (describes actions proposed to mitigate
environmental issues described in project)
Environmental and sociological studies have been requested to be
carried out by the Government which would identify possible problem
areas and recommend measures to mitigate them.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (reasons for
environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from
initial classification)
-8-



No changes from the initial classification.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment:     (presents EA start-up
date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local
groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given
permission to release EA, etc)
Signed by:
Michael Gould, Chief, EC3AI
Signed by:
Seth (EMTEN), Regional Environment Division Chief
-9-



