Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15918-AZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
December 19, 1996
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



Currency Unit = Manat
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE
Manats per US$1
1993   1994  1995   1996
256   4330  4440   4300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAS          Academy of Agricultural Sciences  PIU        Project Implementation Unit
APB          Agroprombank                     PPAR        Project Performance and Audit
DOA          Department of Agriculture                    Report
DOF          Department of Finance            PPF         Project Preparation Facility
FSU          Former Soviet Union              SA          Special Account
GKI          State Committee for the          SCGC        State Committee on Geodesy and
Management of State Property                 Cartography
IDA          International Development        SIC         State Irrigation Committee
Association                      SIPDI       State Irrigation Planning and
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural          Design Institute
Development                     SLC          State Land Committee
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture          SLUOP       State Land Use Organization and
MOE          Ministry of Economy                          Project Institute
MOF          Ministry of Finance              SOE         Statement of Expenditures
PMU          Project Management Unit
GLOSSARY
Agroprombank:   Agroindustrial Bank          Azvodstroi:      Irrigation and Drainage
Agrokombinat:    Deptartment of Agriculture                   Construction Company
Amanatbank:      State Savings Bank          Azerittefak:     The Central Union of
Azkomzem:        State Land Committee                         Consumer Cooperatives
Azgiprovod:      State Irrigation Planning   Azkhleboprodukt: State Grain Procurement
and Design Institute                         and Distribution Agency
Kolkhoz:         Collective farm             Raion:           District - An Administrative
Sovkhoz:         State farm                                   Unit of the State
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F.Linn, ECAVP
Director: Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief: Michael A. Gould, EC3AI
Staff: T.V. Sampath, S. Janakiram, (EC3AI); M. Nightingale
(EMTAW); and S. Banerji (PSDPS)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .                    .............................. iii
I.   AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN AZERBAIJAN: PROBLEMS
AND OPPORTUNITIES    ..
A. Introduction .1
B.    Problems and Opportunities in the Agricultural Sector .1
C. World Bank Initiatives.                                                            3
II.  LAND PRIVATIZATION AND FARM RESTRUCTURING. .                                            4
A. Land Privatization.                                                                4
B.  Present Status of Farm Restructuring                       .5
C.    State and Collective Farms to be Privatized and Restructured.                   5
D.    Status of Privatization in the Five Project Farms.                              7
E.  Key Problems Faced by Project Farms.                                              8
F.     Lessons from Experience from Other Transition Economies.                       9
III. THE PROJECT                          . . .10
A.    Project Objectives ............................. .......... 10
B. Project Description .10
e Farm Privatization Support Services .10
*      Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation and Drainage Works .15
- Community Development Program .15
- Project Management and Implementation .16
*   Training and Technical Assistance .16
C. Project Costs .17
D. Project Financing .18
*      Source  of Finance   ....................................   18
*   Fund Channelling Mechanism .20
E.  On-Lending Terms and Conditions             ..22
F. Cost Recovery    ..23
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS   .                               .24
A.  Organization and Management .24
B.  Implementation of Project Components .26
C.  Status of Project Implementation .28
D. Procurement Procedures .29
E. Disbursement .32
F Special Account .32
G. Accounting and Auditing .33
H. Reporting Requirements .34
I. IDA/IFAD Supervision .34



- ii -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                    ..                             35
A. Benefits .35
B.    Economic and Financial Evaluation .....        ................... 35
C. Marketing Aspects .38
D. Project Sustainability .38
E. Poverty Impact .39
F. Environmental Impact .39
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation .40
H.    Participatory Approach .......................... 40
1. Project Risks .41
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . .42
A.    Project Agreements Reached During Negotiations .42
B.    Conditions For Project Effectiveness .43
C.  Conditions For Project Disbursement .43
D. Project Covenants .43
E. Recommendation .43
TABLES
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Components .18
3.2 Financing Plan .19
4.1  Summary of Procurement Arrangements .30
4.2 IDA Disbursements .33
FIGURES
3.1 Indicative Flow of Funds from IDA/IFAD ..                                           20
4.1 Project Organization and Management ..                                              25
5.1    Cropping Pattern at Pre-Project and at Full Development ..                       37
ANNEXES
Annex A-1 Project Implementation .44
Annex A-2 Implementation Schedule .47
Annex A-3  Training and Technical Assistance .49
Annex A-4 Monitoring Indicators .51
Annex A-5 Supervision Plan .53
Annex B  Procurement Plan .55
Annex C  Disbursement Schedule .58
Annex D   Profile of Participating Farms .59
Annex E   Project Environmental Analysis .65
Annex F      Assumptions Used in Financial and Economic Analysis .71
Annex G   Community Development Program .78
Annex H  Project Cost Tables .86
Annex I      Subsidiary Financing Agency Agreement .103
Annex J   Selected Documents in Project File .108
MAP          Map of Azerbaijan Republic Indicating Project Area - IBRD No: 28120



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Azerbaijan Republic.
Implementing Agency:  Ministry of Agriculture.
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Agriculture, State Land Committee, State Irrigation Committee,
Raion Administration, privatized farm units and small scale agri-businesses.
Poverty Category:      Targeted Interventions. The project would support the vulnerable groups
affected by the privatization process in the project farms by training in
alternate skills and creating employment opportunities.
Amount:                SDR 10.2 million (US$14.7 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard, 35 years' maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:        Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5 percent of the undisbursed credit
balances set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA).
On-lending Terms:      To private sub-projects through Agroprombank acting as an agent bank on
behalf of the Ministry of Finance. Sub-loans to be provided in manats at the
12 month manat rate set by the National Bank.
Financial Rate of
Return:                Sub-projects financed by the project would have to meet the minimum
financial rates of return as specified in the lending manuals.
Staff Appraisal Report: 15918-AZ
Map:                   IBRD No. 28120
Project ID Number:    AZ-PA-40544
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Source of Financing            Amounts              % of
Local   Foreign    Total    Total
IDA                        2.00     12.70    14.70      51
IFAD                       0.78     8.52      9.30      32
Government of Azerbaijan   2.17     0.00      2.17       8
Privatized Farms           2.65     0.00      2.65       9
Total Project Costs        7.60     21.22    28.82      100



I



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
I. AGRICULTURE SECTOR IN AZERBAIJAN: PROBLEMS AND OPPORTUNITIES
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Reform and restructuring of the agricultural sector in Azerbaijan is vital to improve the living
standards of the rural people, who comprise 46 percent of the growing population. The agriculture sector
employs an estimated 36 percent of the labor force, and contributes between 26 and 30 percent of its
GDP. It generates about 30 percent of total exports mostly from cotton, fruits and vegetables. Increasing
agricultural productivity in the immediate term is important and will continue to be in the future, even
if the foreign exchange earnings from petroleum exports were to recover. After independence in 1991,
agricultural production declined (by 13 percent in 1994 following declines of 12 and 25 percent in the
preceding two years) and yields have dropped by 30 percent or more for grain, cotton, grapes and
tobacco. The overall contribution of agriculture to exports has also declined from about 30 percent to
about 10 percent since 1991. Traditionally, agricultural production mostly occurred on collective and
state farms, which is gradually being replaced by individual private farms. Agriculture encompasses nine
distinct agro-climatic zones giving rise to a highly diversified crop mix. It is dependent on irrigation and
imports of the key inputs, viz. hybrid seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, farm machinery and equipment. About
half of the total agricultural land (4.4 million ha) is used for crop production with the remainder being
used for natural pastures. About 75 percent of the land (1.5 million ha) used for crop production is
dependent on irrigation.
B. PROBLEMS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.2   The main problems and the opportunities in the agricultural sector are:
(i)    Weak Institutional Support: The traditional role of the Government to guide and provide
all the necessary means for agricultural production, distribution and marketing for
agricultural inputs and outputs has been on the decline during the last four years.
However, the absence of alternative support systems has led to rent seeking and control
by the few remaining Government monopolies. There is a need to redefine the role of
the public and private sectors in the agricultural sector - strengthening those Government
institutions which must continue to play a role in a market economy to provide research,
extension, public infrastructure and developing private structures to perform direct
production, marketing and trade;
(ii)   Incomplete Liberalization of the Sector: Complete liberalization in output prices of
perishable products, viz., fruits, vegetables and livestock products has taken place,
which has led to their production almost exclusively in the private sector. However, the
agro-processing industries still continue to be predominantly in the public sector, thereby
limiting the realization of the full production potential and income increasing
opportunities in these products. The Government has partially liberalized the wheat and
cotton sectors. With respect to wheat, although the Government is committed to buy 30



-2 -
percent of production at domestic market prices, it is unable to do so due to the hard
budget constraints and the producer's requirement for delivery on a cash basis only. In
response to these policy changes, the domestic prices of wheat has been rising and they
are currently about 55 percent of the average projected import parity price of about
US$175/mt (1997-2001).   With  respect to  cotton, while state orders have been
eliminated, the Government owned ginneries offer the only alternative, at the present
time, for the producers to sell their cotton. While the privatization of the cotton
ginneries is being contemplated, the government has consistently raised the procurement
price closer to export parity price equivalent. The current farm gate price for cotton has
moved significantly towards export parity prices (from US$205/mt during 1994 to
US$290/mt during 1995 compared to the average projected export parity price of
US$335/mt (1997-2001). These price increases are having the desired effect on farm
profitability, which has shown an improvement in the last year; and
(iii) Slow Implementation of Land Reforms: The Government's overall land policy aims at
providing security of land tenure to individuals in the near term and creation of land
markets in course of time. The Constitution of the Azerbaijan Republic provides for
private land ownership (Article 29) and was adopted by a National Referendum on 12
November 1995. In this regard, after much debate and time, the Parliament has passed
the Land Reform Law (July 16, 1996), which would legalize private land ownership and
establish the land distribution procedures. The principle features of this land reform law
are described in Text Box 1.1.
Box 1.1 Principle features Sof Land Reform Law passed by the Parliament:
* Provides for privawe ownetship of land, permanent, temporary and leasing of land and land use types, land
owner's ights,h users and leasers (Article 4);
* Establishes common land fund, defines types of land which could be pnrvatized and those which would remain
under Government jurisdiction (Articles 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12);
* Gives authorit to regional and local :agricultural refonn conmissions to implement provisions of land law
(Article 5);:
* Defines principles and procedures to determine die area of land to be allotted to the individual (Article 16);
* Provides for exit mechanism with the land or its value for those wishing to leave the farm (Article 13);
* Defines eligibility criteria for obtaining land from sovkhozesikolkhozes (Article 15); and
* Establishes procedures for detennining cost of land; defines buying, selling and mortgaging regulations
(Articles 19, 20, 21:,22, 23):
imoratonum on sale of land for initial 5 years after receiving the lanid allotment (Article 23);
- provides for ceiling: on private individual toeownagricultural and non-agricultural land (Article 21); and
- permits mortgaging of land within 3 years for undertaking 'farm activities (Article 24).
The procedures for the implementation of the Land Reform Law are being evolved and
appropriate amendments would be made in the land code, which was passed by the
Government in November 1991. During this transitionary process, agricultural lands,
in selected raions, are being operated on by voluntarily created groups of former state
and collective farm employees as though they have been privatized and have land
ownership rights. The passage of the land reform law by the Parliament and its signing
by the President provides an opportunity to create the appropriate institutional
mechanisms to legitimize the land privatization processes already taking place at the
grass-roots level. It would also provide security of land tenure to individuals to set up
and operate independent farms and any other types of private farm organizations in the
five representative farms of the project.



(iv)   Border Uncertainties: Although the open hostilities over the Nagorno-Karabakh region
have come to an end and progress has been made in negotiations for a durable settlement,
the country continues to confront a large economic burden as a result of the internally
displaced and refugee population of about one million (about 13 percent of the total
population). Moreover, the continuing severance of transport links with Russia in the
northern border has disrupted traditional marketing channels.
C. WORLD BANK INITIATIVES
1.3    The Bank's agricultural sector review (July 1995) concluded that Azerbaijan has considerable
production potential in many agricultural commodities, especially in cotton, grain, vegetables, fruits and
silk production, given the availability of water resources, developed irrigated areas, and stable agro-
ecological systems. It has identified the following areas for action: (a) land privatization and farm
restructuring of state and collective farms; (b) implementation of market oriented price and trade policies;
(c) demonopolization and privatization of state agribusiness enterprises; (d) development of an appropriate
rural financial system to serve private farming and agro-enterprises; (e) improve efficiency of water
delivery and use for agriculture; and (f) realignment of the role of the Government in the agricultural
sector.
1.4    The CAS for FY97-99 was developed in collaboration with the Government and focuses on
agriculture, poverty alleviation and post war reconstruction. The Bank's program would emphasize four
main areas: (i) enhancement of competitiveness in critical economic sectors: for the CAS period, the
sector focus will be on agriculture with emphasis on: (a) creation of land markets and accelerating the
privatization of state and collective farms within an appropriate transparent legal framework; (b)
demonopolization of state owned enterprises involved in input and output marketing channels and
commodity exchange; (c) designing a rural credit scheme to serve the emerging private farmers; and (d)
rehabilitation of dilapidated irrigation and drainage systems and rural infrastructure; (ii) establishment of
a policy and institutional framework conducive to efficient and equitable private sector led sustainable
growth. This would be implemented through mainly institution building components in agriculture,
finance and industrial sectors; (iii) alleviating poverty through the development of improved targeting of
social assistance, increasing efficiency of health care services, and designing a national poverty alleviation
strategy; and (iv) resettlement and rehabilitation of IDPs and refugees through building institutional
capacity in the Government to support and implement the reconstruction effort and undertaking
reconstruction of occupied territories. These program initiatives translate into a base case lending
program of four IDA and one IBRD operations totalling US$170 million over FY97-99. If the country
performance improves, the lending program would expand to comprise up to five IDA and two IBRD
operations totalling US$295 million over the FY97-99 CAS period, which is about US$12 per capita per
annum - an average for similarly performing economies.
1.5    The farm privatization project is fully consistent with the CAS and has been developed in close
consultation with the Government. The project directly supports the Government's program to transform
the agricultural sector into one based on market principles. The Government's recent initiatives to create
an appropriate policy environment for land privatization and farm restructuring provides the basis for the
proposed project. Successful and speedy implementation of the proposed project would induce more
efficient use of scarce resources and enable the new farm structures to base their production decisions on
market forces rather than to the dictates of the state.



- 4 -
II. LAND PRIVATIZATION AND FARM RESTRUCTURING
A. LAND PRIVATIZATION
2.1      The Government is placing high priority
on privatization of the agrarian sector. The Land
Reform    Law   provides   for  individual  land                Box 2.1: Steps in Land&AUocation and
ownership  which would permit the freedom  to                                Registration
use, buy, sell, present, exchange, mortgage, rent
out and inherit land.  The implementation of the                One:.    Formation of local commission with representatives
land law has two aspects: (i) administration of the                       of l:farm  employees,   village  administration,
community  groups  to  decide  the  farm
process;  and  (ii) registration  of  land  of  the                       reorgamnizationi
prospective landowners.  The administration of
the process is the responsibility  of a three-tier              Two:    Demarcation of land within each farm for prvate
of:   (a)   federal   level  ~   Iownership, together with limited arem  that will
system    consisting    of:   (a)   federal   level                       remain under state an municipal ownership ;
commission;  (b) raion  level  agrarian  reform
commission; and  (c) local commissions at the                   Three:,   Determination of list of citizens who would have
farm  or village level. At raion and local levels,                        rightstoprvatzedland - qualifyingiafutid
or village level                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~i di  land reformn  law and qualifying imividuals
the membership to the commission is elected by                            for each farm   deternmined  by raion and local
the concemed population.  In most raions, the                             agricltural reform commissions;
commissions have defined the land allocation and                Fr       DtriA           of n           l   s     and
Four.  'Determination, of individualittnitvlariatd :share: and' 
distribution procedures, and in some instances,                           non-land  shares- based  on farm  size, land
actual  allocation  of  land  is  being  made  to                        classification, and numbertof citizens within the,
individual and with full ownership rights.  The                           farm possessn legal inghts, determined by the local
process has been summarized  in ten steps (see                            cossionsi
Box  2.1).                                                      Fwe:      Distibution and allocation of land shares -based on
order, size and parcel location determined by a
2.2      The  registration  of  land  parcels  and                        loety  supervised  by  the  raion  and  local
issuance of title deeds are the responsibility of the                    agrcultralreform commissons (ARC);
State Land Committee (SLC). It is the executive                 SWx;      Physical demarcation of allocated parcels using
agency which performs cadastral functions and                             stakes and boun  sureysipresence ofpublic -
followed by permanent boundary markings to
maintains all records on land use for each of the                         individual land owners,;
land parcels.  Presently, it is unable to fulfill this
role because it lacks the physical facilities and               Seven:   Preparation of ttland certificates (acts) and other
required  skills to  undertake  the  Government's   0X;? X;XX X;   ; required documentation forARC apprroval and raion
anticipated privatization program.  The present
systems are manual and slow, cumbersome, and                   0Eight    Appeal of land allocation or other decisions of local
vulnerable  to  error.    Establishment  of  land                         ARC, raion or  federal auorties, if found
registration system  in SLC  and building modern                              stY;
capacity to deal with the information requirements                 1 Nne:    Final, approval of land allocation with supporting
for land privatization will facilitate development                        document and acts; and
of land markets.                                                Ten:    Issuane of certified register copies of acts and
location documents byt taion administration.  0000



- 5 -
B. PRESENT STATUS OF FARM RESTRUCTURING
2.3    Until 1991, the farming structure in Azerbaijan consisted of 983 collective farms and 820 state
farms, cultivating a total of 1.46 million hectares. The Government intends to privatize 70 percent of
the farms and agribusinesses as soon as possible. However, the progress in creating the necessary
conditions and implementation has been slow due to lack of resources and the know-how. The decision
making process for farm restructuring involves the following steps: the raion Administration notifies the
eligible farms to submit their proposals for privatization of the farm for consideration and approval. The
decision to re-organize is taken by the local farm Commission'!. The concerned farm in the General
Body meeting discusses the reorganization plans and takes decisions concerning the division of farm land
into independent parcels and the form of organization, such as joint stock companies, association of
peasant farms, collectives, cooperatives, or independent units.
2.4    Local initiatives by voluntarily created groups are being taken for the division and distribution
of agricultural lands of state and collective farms at the village level. For example, in the Salyan raion,
24 out of 27 farms have completed the following steps: (i) carried out a complete inventory and valuation
of movable and immovable properties of the farm including land assets; (ii) defined the eligibility criteria
for sharing of movable farm property among the members of the farm and the criteria for distribution
of land among the inhabitants of the village after reserving certain portions of the land for future
contingencies; and (iii) have decided and allocated the land to individual, family or groups of farmers on
the basis of lottery. The raion administration has issued temporary land ownership certificates to each
of the group leaders, family head or individual land parcel holder. The certificates indicate the area,
coordinates, boundary, land quality and locational details. The raion administration would replace the
temporary land certificate with a legally valid land certificate. These records will be maintained officially
by the State Land Committee. A similar situation exists in all the farms proposed for pilot development
under the project (para. 2.8).
2.5    While improvements are noticeable both in the quantities and qualities of vegetables, fruits and
livestock products, farms are unable to exploit the full potential of the available resources. This is
because a majority of the farm members have not yet been able, to claim individual ownership; to
voluntarily determine how to use their newly acquired land and non-land assets; and to reconstitute
themselves as individual farms, joint stock companies, holding companies, partnerships and lease holders
or other suitable forms. The guiding principles which would govern the process of farm restructuring
has been described in Box 2.2. Some of these principles are implicit in the present decision making
process for the restructuring of state and collective farms.
C. STATE AND COLLECTIVE FARMS TO BE PRIVATIZED AND RESTRUCTURED
2.6   In order to accelerate the process of land privatization and farm restructuring, to try alternative
supporting mechanisms and most importantly, to determine the levels of resources needed for farm
restructuring, five representative farms have been chosen in five raions of Barda, Lenkoran, Salyan,
1/     The Local Commission at farm or village level consists of the President of the Farm (Kolkhoz or Sovkhoz);
and the finance and accounts representative of the farm together with elected representatives of farm
workers; village administration; service section (teaching, health etc.); pensioners; and senior member of
the community "Aksakhal".



Udjar and Xachmaz (see Map IBRD No. 28120).
The main criteria used by the Government in                  2.2: Gdinglnpknfer Land
selecting  these  five  farms  are:  (i) they  are                              and fatrmRestrcturing 
representative of the major agro-ecological
systems and have different cropping patterns; (ii)               A franspprocessfthe :a*iand
the  farms  sizes  are  typical for  the  region                                         4:::4rodiibio and shasteli ible fann
memers with then  toh exit with yland Hg hs
concerned; (iii) they  include different socio-                  awd ri*i  endtitements
economic groups; (iv) the new owner's wish to
follow different methods of farm re-restructuring;               A vlUmnary prcesr  ed on the farm member's
and  (v) farm   and  raion  administration  are                        treorzecin. ayfaccetable form
withAte freedom t4OdcieWhatfarm activities
committed to privatize and restructure the farm                  they wis*h to  d e and to resolke di   te
operations.  A profile of the project farms has
been  described  in  Annex  F.    The  main              *       A volt  sys,emforanement of newl
acquird fam assets, includin the ojston to,
characteristics of the project farms are described               reconstue themselves asindviduatfarms, Joint
below:                                                           stock  com w, old oi*es,
partnerh  and ease holrs
(i)     Farm Resources. All farms have           *       A pubc infoMation sytem0 toiNOrm farm
good  natural  resources,  with                  members about the pragram awla multi:
adequate water supplies to ensure               disoinary iservicet giethem
and toa  area   t::: :::    throughi helndrtizton adfarm
timely irrigation and total area                 restructing procesg.
ranging from 715 ha in Lenkoran
to 5400 ha in Xachmaz consisting
of medium and heavy soils. The
farms are serviced by public electricity and water services. The permanent labor force
on each of the farms range between 300 and 600 people. There are also significant
numbers of pensioners and other dependents reliant on each farm. Reflecting the agro-
ecological regions, production on Salyan, Udjar and Barda involves a rotation of cotton,
cereals and forage crops, Xachmaz has a range of fruit crops alongside cereals and
forage, and Lenkoran has fruits, vegetables, tea, cereals and forage crops. Most of the
farms operate livestock units with dairy cows of indigenous breeds, (although two farms
have herds of Freisan cows), some buffalo, and sheep;
(ii)    Farm Infrastructure.  Most of the main irrigation systems in the five project farms are
gravity irrigation fed, and some portions of the farms are equipped with pumping
facilities that supply water to irrigate higher lands or to raise the water pressure in the
closed pipes for sprinkler irrigation. All main canals and most of the secondary canals
were originally lined. The tertiary canals are mostly pre-cast reinforced concrete sections
or concrete lining cast in-situ. However unlined open earth canals or closed pipe systems
made of steel or cement pipes are found in more than 50 percent of the tertiary canal
systems in the project farms. Each farm has a range of production and administrative
buildings and a farm machinery park. The past legacy of centralized planning and severe
shortage of budgetary resources have resulted in dilapidated infrastructure, non-
functioning pipelines and blocked drainage systems. Inadequate maintenance, lack of
spare parts and centralized management have reduced the productive use of farm
machinery, affecting standards of soil cultivation and efficiency; and
(iii)    Private Allotments of Land. Each farm member in the project farms have retained their
traditional private plot, usually surrounding the house. The area of plots varies from 600



sqm. in the densely populated raion of Lenkoran to about 1200 sqm in the less densely
populated raion of Udjar. The plots are used for producing a range of crops (especially
vegetables and fruit), raising small livestock, compost and storage. Most of these plots
are meticulously maintained and the quality of produce is better than on the collectively
managed farms.
D. STATUS OF PRIVATIZATION IN THE FIvE PROJECT FARMs
2.7    Significant progress was made in the second half of 1995 in initiating privatization on the project
farms. In all five locations, procedures are being followed as laid-down by the Government regulation
on privatization. There are, however, differences between farms in the precise arrangements and pace
of transition. Each of the five rayons has established a privatization commission with membership
including rayon-level specialists and farmers' representatives nominated by the intended farmers. A
technical committee on each farm was elected, in association with each commission, specifically to
undertake inventories and valuations of fixed and movable assets and to make recommendations to the
commission on mechanisms for dividing them between qualifying residents on the kolkhozes and
sovkhozes. In addition to this, at Barda, a "disputes" committee has been established, with membership
consisting of agricultural researchers, experienced farmers and legal specialists, to advise individuals or
groups of intended farmers on organizational, technical and legal questions.
2.8    Decisions have been made, discussed and accepted by the intended farmers on the distribution
of assets on all five project farms. For three farms in Barda, Udjar and Lenkoran, a land share has been
allocated to all persons of 18 years or over currently living on the kolkhozes. In Salyan, the qualifying
age is fourteen years and on Xachmaz all residents are shareholders, irrespective of age. The individual
land share-holdings vary: Barda 1.3 ha, Udjar 1.6 - 2.0 ha, Salyan 1.2 ha, Lenkoran 0.1 ha and Xachmaz
0.3 ha. In all cases, farm workers, pensioners, social workers (schools and health), disabled people and
off-farm workers (e.g., military) qualify as land shareholders.
2.9    Shareholders on all farms are free to exit with land rights and there is no control over prospective
buyers. Land and property within the villages is already being traded. The newly emerging farmers on
all five farms do not anticipate sale of farmland in the foreseeable future, because of its security value.
However, where necessary, there is provision for payments to be made in accordance with shares values
established by the Privatization Commission. Shares in the few farm buildings on two project farms
(Barda and Udjar) are being distributed amongst the personnel currently working in them.  On the
remaining farms, shares are divided between all members. In all cases it has been agreed that charges
will be levied on individual farmers that use of the buildings, e.g., farm produce stores. Machinery
shares in four of the project farms have been allocated to all shareholders; the exception is Barda where
the local commission agreed to provide the share to the workers directly involved. Livestock shares also
have been allocated either to the workers directly involved as in Barda or to all shareholders in the other
four project farms, where shares in livestock have been allocated to all members, shareholders will
generally receive annual dividends; in the case of Lenkoran the dividend is part of a monthly salary.
2.10   Organization of the newly privatized farms will inevitably change considerably in the coming
years. However, for the immediate future, a majority of new farmers have opted to create groups
(similar to working brigades in the previous system) and to cultivate their land in blocks. These are
organized on a village basis and their location is decided in accordance with proximity to the village
concerned. Precise land allocation within each block will be decided by lottery. Provisional certificates
to each shareholder are being issued. Group of farmers on most of the project farms took charge of the
land in late 1995 and, therefore, these kolkhozes/sovkhozes are, in effect already disbanded.



- 8 -
2.11   All groups clearly intend to continue present production patterns. Shareholders on three of the
five farms have agreed to maintain the existing machinery pools on all project farms as a single operation
and the groups mostly intend to contract with the privatized machinery pool (agro-service) for basic
cultivation work. The active labor force in each group is excessive for the most economical operation
of the blocks of land concerned and the new farmers have clearly accepted that profitable operation
depends on maximizing manual labor, e.g., for weeding and cotton picking. In the same way, the new
farmers are enthusiastic to participate in reconstruction work of the irrigation schemes. They also accept
their responsibilities for maintaining irrigation and drainage channels on their blocks of land and the
payment of water charges. Similarly, new farmers accept the need for and implications of obtaining
credit for initiating production on their farm blocks.
Prospects
2.12   The present production systems are physically and economically suited to the farms and with
rehabilitation, extension, and modernization of irrigation and drainage facilities, offer good potential as
profitable intensive farming enterprises. With improved macroeconomic conditions and the liberalized
price and trade regimes, the emerging farms would be able to operate as independent units, if they are
provided with working capital for seasonal inputs and investment in more efficient technologies. As
international experience has demonstrated, individual farms and enterprises have proven to be far more
efficient and productive than state and collective farms, especially in vegetable and livestock production.
This is evident from the factor productivity differentials in private plots and collective farms in project
areas.
E. KEY PROBLEMS FACED BY PROJECT FARMS
2.13   Other key problems confronting the farms are:
(i)    Deteriorated On-Farm and Inter-Farm Infrastructure. The irrigation systems in these
farms were built during 1966 and 1970s and due to lack of maintenance in recent years
have deteriorated. These were designed to serve large scale farms with cropping and
management for arable lands ranging in size from 700 to 4500 hectares. Off-farm
irrigation water conveyance efficiency is low (less than 50 percent) as the system has
deteriorated from lack of maintenance. The poor status of irrigation and drainage canals
is the major constraint to farm productivity and, without reconstruction, will further
erode farm profitability. Farm buildings and farm access roads also suffer from poor
maintenance;
(ii)    Obsolete Farm Machinery. The neglected state of most machines and equipment poses
a serious constraint for timely farm operations. Most of the farm machinery is outdated,
obsolete and in need of repairs and replacements;
(iii)   Lack of Credit and Input Availability. Most of the farms are facing liquidity constraints
and are not able to buy inputs. Most inputs such as nitrogenous and potash fertilizers,
pesticides, herbicides, seeds, farm machinery are imported; and
(iv)   Deterioration of Social Services and Quality of Life. Most of the farm population in the
five project farms could be classified as vulnerable, resulting from their inability to sell
their produce, unpaid salaries, and withdrawal of Government support. Most of the able



bodied working men have migrated to neighboring countries in search of better
employment opportunities. The farms are no longer able to provide social services such
as health facilities, child care, schooling, drinking water and sanitation facilities, etc,
which once belonged to the former state and collective farm operations. The removal of
explicit and implicit food subsidies and the elimination of bread subsidies in 1995 has
placed increased hardship, especially on non-working pensioners, women and children.
F. LESSONS FROM EXPERENCE FROM OTHER TRANSmON ECONOMIES
2.13   Experience in countries which are undergoing transition from a centrally planned to a market
economy has proved that land privatization and farm restructuring is best undertaken in a phased manner
consistent with the development of markets, functioning financial intermediaries and overall macro-
economic stabilization to yield desired results. The process is accelerated as the distortions in the
economy are eliminated, procedures refined, legal systems developed and supporting institutions evolve
to provide timely support services. Fundamental to this program is to give titles to farm land and
property in the hands of farm members - with an opportunity to voluntarily decide how to use these newly
acquired rights. Assistance programs should address the severe constraints faced by the privatized farms,
in particular: (i) the lack of appropriate information on re-organization laws and procedures; and
(ii) inadequate institutional capability to effect the transfer, limited technology choices, need for focused
social services, lack of working capital and investment funds for restructuring production systems
appropriate for private small-scale farming, and the poor state of irrigation and road infrastructure. The
proposed farm privatization project takes into consideration these factors and the components have been
designed to address the critical constraints identified from the lessons of experience.



- 10-
III. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    The main objective of the Farm Privatization Project (FPP) is to accelerate the Government's
program for land privatization and farm restructuring of representative state and collective farms in a
systematic manner and to provide models which could serve as a basis for wider geographical
replicability. This objective would be achieved through the provision of: (i) essential support services
which are necessary to sustain privatized agriculture at the raion and farm levels. These are: land
registration, farm information and advisory services, credit services, and rehabilitation of critical
irrigation and drainage infrastructure; (ii) an enabling environment which would help build linkages
between key institutions, viz., Ministry of Agriculture, State Land Committee, State Irrigation
Committee, Agrarian Reform Commissions and agricultural banking institutions; and (iii) community
based social services and formation of village groups in support of land privatization and farm
restructuring.
3.2    The project activities are regional and farm specific in nature, and which have been designed to
be replicable. At the raion level, the project would support the land registration system, advisory
services, credit delivery mechanisms, and re-orientation of the department of agriculture functions to
service privatized farms. These support services would have the capability to service the needs of the
privatized farms throughout the participating raions and would form the basis for the subsequent
development of national systems. At the farm level, the project would develop a business oriented
outlook in the privatized farms by providing advisory and credit support to those activities which are
financially and economically viable; rehabilitate the main water supply works and field level irrigation
and drainage works, and initiate new concepts of field level water management through the formation of
water user's associations and implementation of cost recovery mechanisms. The project area consists of
representative state and collective farms chosen from the raions of Barda, Lenkoran, Salyan, Udjar,
Xachmaz and Sharur in Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.3    The project would consist of four components to be implemented over a period of five years.
These are: (i) Farm  Privatization Support Services at the national level and in the raions;
(ii) Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation Water Supply and Drainage Works; (iii) Community Development
Program; and (iv) Project Management and Implementation.
Farm Privatization Support Services (US$20.03 million)
3.4    The farm privatization support services consists of four sub-components: (i) Land Registration
Services; (ii) Farm Information and Advisory Services; (iii) Water User's Association (WUAs); and (iv)
Privatized Farm Credit Services.
3.5    Land Registration Services (US$2.32 million). This sub-component would enable the State
Land Committee in Baku and in the raions to systematically register new land parcels and issue land titles
to individuals, so that they can operate as independent farm units in a market-oriented environment. This
component would provide support in two critical areas: (a) Land Registration System; and (b) Land
Mapping and Surveying.



- 11 -
(a)    Land Registration System. The system will be based on parcels or units of land that
have been allocated in accordance with the land privatization process. It will operate on
personal computers and have the hardware and software security required to ensure that
the records are reliable, protect the interests of the new land owners and are secure. It
will be capable of linking land information to ownership, fixed assets, such as buildings,
store basic land use data and information required for land valuation. Its design would
permit it for future expansion to record all other interests associated with each parcel of
land, such as mortgages, leases, rights of access and servitudes. The central office of
State Land Committee and the land registration offices (LRO's) in the raions, where the
representative farms are located will be strengthened and appropriate training provided
to staff, so that they could provide the necessary land registration services required to
preserve and record the land rights of the emerging privatized farm units. Initially, the
LRO's would serve the needs of these representative state and collective farms and then,
support the privatization of farms within the raion by providing technical services for
land registration. This would result in legitimizing the presently used temporary land
certificates being issued by the raion administration and replacing it with official "State
Land Acts" (Land Registration Certificates). These would then constitute the legal
documents for the eventual purchase and sale of land, inheritance, gift, mortgaging,
leasing, subdivision and consolidation of land, once the land markets become operational.
The LROs would provide open access to their records and information, and a prescribed
schedule of fees would be implemented to sustain the system. The project would finance
field vehicles, office equipment, rehabilitation of offices and incremental operating costs,
technical assistance and training; and
(b)    Land Surveying and Mapping. Large tracts of land that will be subdivided and allocated
as part of the privatization process in each of the project farms will be delineated using
physical features, wherever possible. The existing 1:10,000 land cadastre maps produced
by the Land Institute will be used as a guideline. These boundaries will be verified in
the field as well. Land suitability information from the land cadastre maps will be
transferred on to the legal cadastre base maps, in order to more precisely calculate the
land share. Legal cadastral mapping at 1:2000 scale for villages and 1:5000 or 1:10,000
for the rural areas will be undertaken and all mapping, will be related to the national
mapping grid. It consists of the following activities:
(i)    Existing air photography that is less than five years old will be used to compile
initial legal cadastral base mapping of the project areas. Areas with photography
greater than five years old, or village areas where existing photography does not
meet the accuracy requirements for 1:2,000 mapping, will require new
photography. If new photography is required, it will be necessary that this
photography be flown under "leaf-free" conditions so as not to obscure ground
features;
(ii)    Existing geodetic survey control within the project area will be densified using
GPS, as required, to support photogrammetric mapping;
(iii)   Kolkhoz, sovkhoz and village boundaries will be surveyed using GPS or ground
survey techniques;



- 12 -
(iv)    Legal cadastral base maps will be compiled photogrammetically with as much
information transferred from existing topographic mapping as possible. The legal
cadastre maps will include basic planimetric features such as roads, buildings,
rivers, lakes, etc. Existing physical features visible on the photography that
define property boundaries such as fences, hedges, tree lines, irrigation ditches
etc. will be mapped. It is anticipated that most household and garden plots
within village limits will be determined photogrammetically using existing
features. It will, however, be necessary to verify these features in the field;
(v)    Based upon the land allocation and registration procedures described in Text Box
2.1, individual land parcels will be planned, allocated and drawn on the legal
cadastre base maps;
(vi)   These parcels will then be demarcated in the field using temporary markers such
as wooden stakes, and surveyed. At the same time, all other information on the
legal cadastre base maps will be verified and any necessary measurements will
be taken; and
(vii)   The legal cadastre base maps will be updated with field information, linked to
land ownership information and individual plot plans and State acts will be
prepared for approval, and issued to landowners.
3.6    Farm Information and Advisory Services (US$2.81 million). This component would support
the establishment of Farm Development Centers at the Ministry of Agriculture in Baku and in the
Department of Agriculture (Agrokombinats) in each of the project raions. The project will finance the
rehabilitation of offices, equipment, vehicles, communication materials, training of staff, technical
assistance and operating costs. These centers would provide two broad types of services: (a) information
services; and (b) advisory services for land privatization and farm restructuring.
(a)    Information Services. Two types of information will be provided: (i) General: such as
information on the privatization process; land reform laws; how to start new business,
keep simple accounts, how to make business plans, etc; and (ii) Raion specific: such as
information on local market conditions of farm inputs and outputs, agronomic practices,
environmental matters, methods to reduce harvest losses, etc. All information generated
by these centers would be provided free of charge, as a public good.  Periodic
information campaigns would be undertaken through the mass media; and
(b)    Advisory Services. The advisory services would focus on assisting the representative
state and collective farms to go through the land privatization and restructuring process.
Advisory services on land privatization will focus on: providing assistance to state and
collective farms to go through the land privatization process in accordance with the
guiding principles for farm privatization set out in Chapter 2; assisting the state and
collective farm employees to understand and follow the procedures for obtaining land,
clear titles to land and registration of the state acts to ensure protection of property rights.
Advisory services on farm restructuring will focus on providing assistance to state and
collective farms to: (i) to evaluate various types of re-organization options, such as
individual farm units, cooperatives, joint stock companies, association of private farms,
service organizations, etc; (ii) to evaluate alternative business plans for crops and



- 13 -
livestock activities; (iii) to prepare applications for obtaining the term loan from
Agroprombank under the project; (iv) to enable the new farm units to procure essential
farm inputs from inputs and develop linkages with the Agricultural Academy at Ganj a for
technical back-stopping and technical research support; (v) to prepare detailed designs for
on-farm irrigation and drainage works and farm access roads; and (vi) to develop a
program for the divestiture of social assets and assisting in the transfer to local
administration or private operators.
3.7    Water Users' Association (WUA's) (US$1.46 million). The emergence of the private farmers
provides an opportunity to assume the responsibility for the overall water management of their respective
farms. In this regard, the project farmers would be organized into specialized WUA's, as in many other
countries, for water management. The main objectives of the WUA's are: (i) to provide equitable,
efficient and timely distribution of irrigation water at the field level; and (ii) mobilize and train farmers
to form groups and take responsibility for operation, maintenance, cost recovery and management of
water resources.  The Water Users' Association would be formed through a participatory process
approach in each of the project farms. The membership of the association may be either individual
persons or juridical entities owning land located in the territory of the Association. The process and
approaches would be revised, adjusted and improved based on the lessons learned from the on-going
implementation experiences. The WUA's would be formed as private juridical self supporting,
independent entities for the operation, maintenance and management of irrigation and drainage systems.
A water user group (WUG) would be formed for each hydrologic unit, a tertiary bloc, representing 10
to 15 farmers. These groups would be established through dialogue and consent of the beneficiaries,
The WUA's would follow the establishment of WUG's on the basis of the command area of a secondary
and/or main canal and would require the agreement of at least 80 percent of the respective WUG 's under
each secondary or main canal. The WUA's would have three main functions: (i) operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems; (ii) collection of water charges; and (iii) resolution
of conflicts amnong its members, arising out of water allocation and use. The rehabilitation of field level
irrigation and drainage works would be planned and implemented in consultation with the water users.
The rehabilitation works would be designed and carried out with the active participation of the water user
groups. The project would assist the private farms to organize into cohesive groups, provide technical
support and guidance to WUA's. At the raion level, field agents would be deployed - at least one per
village - to promote the formation of WUA's and to serve as a contact point for the delivery of the
component support and services. The project would finance office equipment, vehicles, training in
communication skills, farmer training, regulations of WUA's and water management techniques.
Technical assistance of a WUA specialist and legal aspects and operating costs.
3.8    Privatized Farn Credit Services (US$13.44 million). The main objective of this sub-component
would be to provide credit services to the emerging private farms to enable them to operate as
independent units in a market enviromnent. The project would use Agroprombank on an agency basis
for channelling seasonal and long term investments to privatized farm units emerging from the
privatization process. A preliminary financial review of APBZ' undertaken during project preparaation
found it to be suitable as an agency bank, if appropriate training and institutional support is provided to
allow the existing staff, who are knowledgeable about agriculture, to undertake the necessary credit
2/    It recommends a full financial audit, restructuring and recapitalization of APB, separation of commercial
lending from directed credit, staff training and development and modernization of accounting systems and
procedures. The Institution Building and Technical Assistance (IBTA) project of the World Bank together
with UNDP, is in the process of undertaking a complete review of the Agroprombank.



- 14 -
analysis for lending in a market economy. The Bank's financial sector review (May 22, 1996) concludes
that APB is currently the only agricultural bank which has the capacity to do agricultural financing, but
limit its lending only to those that are current in both interest and principal and require collateral. In the
medium term, the sector review recommends the privatization of the APB. The project would provide:
(a)    Institutional Support consisting of training of a limited number of staff, provision of the
most essential equipment and operational supplies at the Headquarters and in the project
raions, in order to service the credit needs of the privatized farm units; and
(b)    Credit. Provision of credit for seasonal working capital, medium  and long-term
investment credit for farm units in the project raions to enable them to operate
independently and commercially. The major investment categories are expected to be:
(i)    Farm Machinery and Eguipment including tractors and ancillary machinery and
equipment, milking and cooling devices, critical spare parts for various types of
existing farm machinery, storage and small scale processing units to suit the
needs of individual farms, private farm groups and associations;
(ii)    Farm  Buildings and Other Construction Works such as rehabilitation and
modernization of livestock sheds, grain storage sheds, fencing, watering
facilities, marketing centers;
(iii)   Seasonal Working Capital for the purchase of seasonal farm inputs, such as
seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, labor, fuel, machinery services and transport;
(iv)   Field Level Irrigation and Drainage Works. Field level works consists mostly of
land levelling and provision of water supply and drainage ditches. The density
of the field ditches would vary with the nature and cropping pattern of individual
farm units. Land levelling operation will also vary from unit to unit depending
upon the topography of land and density of field irrigation and drainage design
adopted for cropping pattern intended by individual land owner. The program
of on-farm improvement would include support for enhancing irrigation
application efficiencies and offer opportunities for investment in drainage
facilities to mitigate, cure or prevent problem of salinization. It is estimated that
the water supply field ditches of cross section 1.0 M2 with a density of 100 m to
120 m/ha will be constructed and land levelling operation will consist of earth
cutting and filling which will be within the limit of 800 M3/ha. An attempt to
introduce, where feasible, new technology for field drains with pre-wrapped PVC
pipes to substitute for the use of expensive gravel filter;
(v)    Sprinkler/Bubble Irrigation Systems will be introduced on a pilot scale to
demonstrate its technical feasibility for vegetable and fruits production. In
particular the irrigation water management of more intensive high value crop mix
with appropriate irrigation water conservation technology to overcome production
constraints with the adoption of low pressure sprinkler, drip, bubbler, micro-jet
etc., will be demonstrated over an area of 10 ha in Yergouz farm of Xachmaz
raion and in about 20 ha in Narimanov farm in Lenkoran; and



- 15 -
(vi)   Community Development Activities. These are expected to be rehabilitation of
domestic water supply systems, provision of fuel/fodder trees; small scale
activities such as sericulture, apiculture, carpet weaving, silk reeling, sewing,
weaving, poultry, etc.
Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation Water Supply and Drainage Works in Project Farms (US$5.52
million)
3.9    The following six broad categories of rehabilitation works for the main irrigation water supply
would be carried out:
(a)    Desiltation of Open Canals and Drains. Cleaning and desilting of about 500 km of main,
secondary and tertiary irrigation canals and 245 km of collectors and field drains would
be undertaken;
(b)    Repairs and Reconstruction of Existing Structures. Most of the irrigation structures on
all the project farms are totally defunct and in need of complete reconstruction. This
would involve the reconstruction of 330 water control structures and 320 tertiary outlets;
(c)    Rehabilitation of Hydrant Systems. The Narimanov farm in Lenkoran raion and Yergouz
farm in Xachmaz are served by a system of pressurized irrigation system with
underground pipelines equipped with hydrants. These are only partly functional. The
project would repair and re-operationalize about 80 km of underground pipelines,
replace/repair about 220 hydrants and reconstruct three pipeline intake structures on the
Yergouz farm;
(d)    Rehabilitation of Sub-surface Drainage Systems. This would consist of: (a) cleaning and
repairing, where necessary, the sub-surface drainage pipelines of about 150 km; (b)
repair the existing 480 drainage pumps (control pits and junctions); and (c) construction
of 80 new drainage sumps in Gulaband-Hatai farm;
(e)    Construction of New Canals. The splitting of the state farms would result in increasing
the density of the tertiary canal network. The present spacing in Ghiliinjili is 500 and
in Gulaband-Hatai is 1000 meters. In preparation for the sub-division of land, the density
would be increased by spacing of 250 meters, which would require 30 km of new tertiary
canals in Ghiliinjili and 60 km on Gulaband-Hatai; and
(f)    Construction of New Irrigation Structures. This would consist of: (a) Construction of
90 tertiary intakes; (b) 80 canal regulators; (c) 430 tertiary outlets; (d) construction of
a weir on the Dizdaru river to improve the water intake to Narimanov farm; (e) two
storage reservoirs - one on Narimanov and the other on Yergouz; and (f) the installation
of a pumping unit to lift water for about 300 ha in Yergouz farm.
Community Development Program (US$1.04 million)
3.10   This component would provide support for the development of people based community
development activities; establishment of business centers and preparation of a broader social development
project.



- 16 -
(a)    Participatory Approaches. Participatory approaches would be developed to implement
the guiding principles presented in Text Box 2.2; to ensure equity in the land distribution
and farm restructuring process and so that equal opportunity is provided to all persons
to actively participate in the agricultural transformation process.  This would be
undertaken through the training of community development workers and wide-spread
education and awareness raising campaign using different mass media;
(b)    Establishment of Business Centers. This sub-component would support: (a) the
establishment of functioning business centers with the ability to provide potential
entrepreneurs with technical, financial and managerial advice; (b) create an initial core
of trained entrepreneurs in different fields; and (c) promote small-scale off-farm
businesses in the project areas. Business centers would be opened in the project raions,
but operating on either a full time or part time basis, depending on the circumstances
prevailing in each raion. These centers would provide business advice and information
facilities; technical and managerial training and credit for new enterprises. Typical
activities which could merit support are carpet making, knitting and sewing, milk
processing, flour mills, fish, and small scale food processing activities; and
(c)    Preparation of a Broader Social Development Project. The project would provide
support for the preparation of a larger social development project taking into account the
lessons learnt from the participatory approaches.
Project Management and Implementation (US$2.23 million)
3.11   The project would support the establishment of: (a) a project management unit in the Cabinet of
Ministers at the Federal level in Baku; and (b) Project Implementation Units in each of the project raions.
The detailed functions and responsibilities have been elaborated in Chapter IV. The project would
provide support for technical assistance, training, study tours, equipment and supplies, operating costs,
conmmunication facilities, utilities, vehicles and rehabilitation of offices.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.12   The success of the project depends on the timely availability of trained manpower to undertake
various activities envisaged in the project. The main objective of the training would be to provide
relevant technical, managerial, financial skills to a large number of personnel who would be responsible
for the implementation of the project. The project requires new types of skills and experience as many
of the project activities require new approaches, that are quite different from those now being practiced
in Azerbaijan. It is envisaged that a large number of persons drawn from different ministries, agencies
departments from the participating raions and from the project farms would benefit from training.
3.13   Training. Training for the project would be spread over five years and would be developed in
consultation with the various institutions involved in the project. It would support in-country and foreign
training. The duration of training ranges from short courses to five day workshops, to extended programs
of one month or even longer. The in-country training would focus on various aspects of farm
privatization; water management techniques; farm information development and dissemination; farm
business planning and various aspects of land registration. The foreign training would focus on land
registration processes and procedures in market economies, organization and operational aspects of water
user's associations, farm information and advisory services, finance and accounting aspects.



- 17 -
3.14   Technical Assistance. The objective of technical assistance would be to provide specialized
assistance in a variety of skill areas needed for the effective implementation of the proposed project
components. The technical assistance package has been developed in close consultation with the various
institutions involved in the project. The main emphasis is to provide the most critical skills that are not
presently available in the country and transfer these skills to the Azeri counterparts. The technical
assistance delivery will be carried out in two ways: (i) long term individual or multi-disciplinary task
oriented services from one to two years; and (ii) short term individual or firm services for six months
or less.
(a)    Long Term Services (6 months to two years). The long term services would be in the
areas of: (i) rural credit specialist; (ii) agri-business specialist; (iii) farm re-structuring
specialist; (iv) procurement specialist; and (v) services of a Non-Governmental
Organization; and
(b)    Short Term Services (less than 6 months). The short term services will be in the areas
of: (i) land legislation: to assist in the review and modifications of the draft land law,
amendments to the land code, law on easements or servitudes, or amendments to draft
land reform law; (ii) land cadastre and mapping specialists; (iii) computer systems
specialists; (iv) irrigation engineering; (v) farm information and advisory services; (vi)
selected technical areas of crop, fruit and vegetable and livestock production; and (vii)
accounting and auditing.
C. PROJECT COSTS
3.15   The project is estimated to cost US$28.82 million, based on October 1996 prices. The cost of
various components and sub-components have been summarized in Table 3.1. Detailed project costs have
been provided in Annex H. The foreign exchange component has been estimated at US$21.21 million
or 72 percent of the total cost. This cost includes physical and price contingencies of US$3.14 million
(13 percent of base cost, but excludes duties and taxes, as the goods and services to be procured under
this project would be exempted). Physical contingencies vary from 0 percent to 20 percent depending
on the items. Local costs have been converted to their US$ equivalent using the projected annual average
exchange rates of 4302, 4412, 4335, 4295, and 4207 manats to US$1 from 1997 to 2001. Price
contingency estimates assume an increase in local currency costs of 17.5, 5.6, 1.2, 2.1 and 0.9 percent
per year from 1997 to 2001 (which is the projected GDP deflator) and 2.7, 2.5, 2.5, 2.6 and 2.7 percent
from 1997 to 2001 for foreign currency costs.



- 18 -
TABLE 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTS
Components                           US$ "000",              %        % Total
Foreign     Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange    Costs
A. Farm Privatization Support Services
1. Land Registration Services           544      1485      2029          73          8
2. Farm Information & Advisory Services    214   2232       2446         91         10
3. Water User's Association             405       852       1257         68          5
4. Privatized Farm Credit Services     1543     11299      12842         88         50
Sub-total                              2706     15868      18574         85         72
B. Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation &
Drainage Works
1. Barda - Ghiliinjili Farm             513       391       904          43          4
2. Lenkoran - Narimanov Farm             95        96        191         50          1
3. Salyan - Shafag Farm                 671       128        799         16          3
4. Udjar - Gulaband-Hatai Farm          683       814       1497         54          6
5. Xachmaz - Yergouz Farm               408       404        812         50          3
Sub-total                              2370      1833       4203         44         16
C. Community Development Program             39       942        981         96          4
D. Project Management and
Implementation
1. Project Management Unit, Baku         87      1028       1115         92          4
2. Project Implementation Units - project    368  433        801         54          3
raions                               455       1461      1916         76          7
Sub-total
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                       5570    20104       25674         78        100
Physical Contingencies                  607       736       1343         55          5
Price Contingencies                    1431       368       1799         20          8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        7608    21208       28816         74        113
D. PROJECT FINANCING
Source of Finance
3.16   The project will be financed by an IDA credit, an IFAD loan and by the Government of
Azerbaijan and participating privatized farms. IDA's contribution is US$14.7 million and IFAD will co-
finance US$9.3 million of project costs. Funds from IDA would be used to finance, in part, the goods,
works and services required for project management and implementation, land registration services, farm
information and advisory services, privatized farm credit services, rehabilitation of main irrigation and
drainage works for the farms in Salyan, Xachmas, Barda and Lenkoran. IFAD funds would be used to
finance, in part, the works, goods and services for Water Users' Association; community development



- 19 -
activities, rehabilitation of the main irrigation water supply and drainage works for the farm in Udjar
raion, and seasonal loans. Table 3.2 provides details of financing for each component and source. Given
the fiscal difficulties of the state and raion administrations and lack of financial resources in the farms,
IDA credit and IFAD loan will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs and a portion of local
costs. This would result in an IDA/IFAD contribution of about 83 percent of the project costs, and the
remainder 17 percent would be financed by the Government and participating farms/enterprises.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the project financing plan; budgetary provisions and
allocation of counterpart funds, and provision of counterpart funds in the project account prior to credit
effectiveness.
TABLE 3.2: FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENTS AND FINANCIERS
(US$ million equivalent)
Government                          Privatized
Project Components                      of          IDA      IFAD         Farm          Total
Azerbaijan                            Units
A. Farm Privatization Support Services
1. Land Registration Service                   0.35          1.97                                2.32
2. Farm Information & Advisory Services        0.29          2.52                                2.81
3. Water Users' Association                    0.14                    1.32                      1.46
4. Privatized Farm Credit Services                           5.60      5.90        1.94         13.44
Sub-Total                       0.78         10.09      7.22        1.94         20.03
B. Rehab-Main Irrigation Water Supply &
Drainage Works
1. Barda - Ghilinjili Farm                     0.22          0.89                  0.12          1.23
2. Lenkoran - Narimanov Farm                   0.04          0.16                  0.05          0.25
3. Salyan-Shafag Farm                          0.17          0.72                  0.17          1.06
4. Udjar-Gulaband-Hatai Farm                   0.30                    1.49        0.16          1.95
5. Xachmaz-Yerghouz Farm                       0.16          0.66                  0.21          1.03
Sub-Total                       0.89          2.43      1.49        0.71          5.52
C. Community Development Program                  0.05          0.40      0.59                      1.04
D. Project Management and Implementation
1. Project Management Unit - Baku             0.12           1.09                                1.21
2. Project Implementation Unit - Project       0.33          0.69                                1.02
Raions
Sub-Total                       0.45          1.78                                2.23
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT BY FINANCIERS                 2.17          14.70      9.30        2.65         28.82
AS PERCENT OF TOTAL FINANCING                    8             51        32           9           100



- 20 -
3.17   Project Preparation Facility: A project preparation facility is in place for US$900,000. This is
being used to finance: (i) the procurement of essential equipment for strengthening land registration
services, vehicles, office equipment, computers and related accessories, operating materials, project
management unit and project implementation units at the raion levels; and (ii) obtain the services of short
term international and national consultants in procurement, farm privatization, irrigation and drainage
system design, water management, agricultural credit, agricultural information and advisory services.
Fund Channelling Mechanism
3.18   The IDA Credit and IFAD Loan would be channelled through two mechanisms: (i) through the
Agroprombank, which will act as an agent bank for working capital, medium and long term investments
and community development activities; and (ii) through the Government fiscal channels to finance
institutional development activities, critical infrastructure support services, technical assistance, training
and project related studies. (See Figure 3.1 which describes the flow of funds from IDA/IFAD). During
negotiations, an assurance from the Government was obtained that the signing of the IFAD Loan
agreement would be a condition of effectiveness.
Figure 3.1. Flow of Funds
|  IDAJIFAD       l
Ministry of Finance - GOAl
Fiscal Channels                                   t |Credit Channel
PMUIMOA, SIC, SLC                         Agency Arrangements
Agroprombank
T                                  T 1
Rayon AdministrationlPIU                        Agroprombank
(Raion Branches)
Fees, taxes                      iSub-loan repayment
Infrastructure, Community Development                  Sub-Loans to
(TA, Training, Special Studies)                  Privatized Farms



- 21 -
3.19   Agroprombank (APB) as an Agent Bank. APB was reviewed during the appraisal mission as
an intermediary for the proposed Farm Privatization Project. APB has a wide network of branches
covering all the raions including the location of the five project farms. Its staff has considerable
experience in lending to state owned agro-industries and farms. In light of the above, Agroprombank
would be used for on-lending IDA credit and IFAD funds on agency basis, that is, without taking the
financial and credit risk - which will remain with the Government. During negotiations, agreement was
obtained on the Subsidiary Financing Agency Agreement. between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
Agroprombank., eligibility and financing criteria, on-lending arrangements for sub-borrowers and the
provision to extend project support to any farm willing to undertake the agreed privatization process. The
execution of this agreement would be a condition of effectiveness. This agreement and the financial
situation of the Agroprombank will be reviewed in mid 1998 with a view to make appropriate
modifications at that time, including the consideration of making a restructured Agroprombank to take
the credit risk. APB will open a revolving fund for re-lending the proceeds of sub-loan repayments,
which would be limited to principal, with the interest payments from the beneficiaries being made to the
Ministry of Finance, which would be used to service the IDA credit. The raion level implementation unit,
consisting of representatives of the State Land Committee, State Irrigation Committee, Department of
Agriculture, Water User Association, local APB branch and credit advisors would be responsible for
approving sub-loans, thereby avoiding any unilateral decisions by APB, and they would have the authority
to approve the sub-loans of upto US$30,000. Sub-loans amounting to US$30,000 and above would need
the approval of the State Commission for Farm Privatization, which would be charged with the
responsibility of monitoring APB's performance on the basis of semi-annual reports submitted by APB.
APB will be strengthened in accounting and management information systems, training for staff and
technical assistance; and provided with computers and related accessories, office equipment, and vehicles.
The technical assistance will be used to hire two international experts, an agricultural credit specialist and
an accounting and financial systems specialist for one year to train staff and develop systems and
procedures. It was agreed during negotiations that the Ministry of Finance will provide to Agroprombank
an amount of not more than US$500, 000 from the IDA credit for a period of 10 years at an interest rate
of 0. 75 percent and 5 years grace for this purpose. These activities are expected to result in a core of
well trained staff and the introduction of a modern accounting and banking practices in the headquarters
and in the APB branches of the project raions. These arrangements are interim measures designed to
support the urgent needs for farm restructuring; a longer term strategy for the financial sector and APB
is being worked out in the context of the discussions of the Bank's financial sector report (No. 5422 dated
May 22, 1996) and a possible future Structural Adjustment Credit.
3.20   Rural Credit Cooperatives. Rural credit cooperatives remains an alternative option for on-
lending of project funds. The establishment of such an operation is being considered in Salyan raion,
with the assistance of EC-TACIS. The project would consider the possibility of on-lending part of the
proceeds through such cooperatives, following a review of their charter and operations during project
implementation.
3.21   Government Fiscal Channels. The Government fiscal channels would be used to finance critical
infrastructure support services, technical assistance, training and project related studies and would be
administered by the State Government and provided to the raions. The raion level Project Implementation
Units (PIU's) would prepare the annual work plan and budget for investments in critical infrastructure,
such as main irrigation and drainage canals, farm access roads, etc. These will be reviewed by the State
Commission for Farm Privatization which would be responsible for giving approval for the annual work
plan and budget.



- 22 -
E. ON-LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
3.22   The terms and conditions for the subsidiary loan agreement between the Agroprombank and the
privatized farming units or associations thereof would be as follows:
(a)    Terns of On-lending for Sub-loans. Agroprombank will on-lend IDA and IFAD funds
to eligible beneficiaries as defined in sub-para 3.22 (ii) for maturities varying from one
to ten years. The sub-loans would be denominated in Manats and the interest rate charged
would be the twelve month manat rate set by the National Bank. The Agroprombank will
charge a 2 percent loan appraisal fee and also receive an annual commission of upto 2
percent to be collected from interest paid by borrowers in cash on an arrears basis, based
on loan recovery performance. The on-lending terms will be reviewed periodically and
modified by agreement between IDA/IFAD and the Government, as necessary, to ensure
that they continue to reflect the market rates, and the fees to APB are linked to its
performance;
(b)    Loan  Beneficiaries.   Sub-loans
from  the Agroprombank will be          Box3.1 Eligbi 0    Cir Pfo   r Obining
made available only  to  eligible                 0000  j SeaConWkingCatandl a 
privatized   farming   units   or                Meim anLirg-term investments
associations, cooperatives that are
associatis cMust have a title or certificate to the farmland;
established by such private units to
facilitate  operations  and  small      *        Must have gone throu h the privatization process
private agro-processing concerns.                and operate as a privatized farm unit or
. . . . . .......... : :: WemreriscOn Vaccordaioe with the law,~
The eligibility criteria has been                  e     in aodn  w  t law;
described in Text Box 3. 1  The    0             Submit a business plan demonstrtin the
credit demand is expected to come                eci0nomic and*financial viability of farm
from    farmer's   cooperatives                  opertions,
consisting  of private  individual      0        Must be willingito follow IDA procurement
farmers; associations of farmers;                procedures-, and
machine ry   leasing   service                   Agree to provide. (i) a record of lien on
companies;   small  private                      registered: land :as collateral when the Land Law
agro-processing    firms   and                   permits a fonn mortgage of lad; and (ii) lien
agricultural marketing associations;            :on assets fmianced b the sub-loan.
(c)    Loan Ceilings: Loan ceilings per
eligible borrower would be placed
for the following categories of borrowings: (i) Seasonal working capital up to a maximum
of US$500 per hectare; (ii) Farm machinery, equipment and small scale processing units
- up to a maximum of US$30,000; (iii) Land improvements and field level infrastructure
works - up to a maximum of US$1500 per hectare; and (iv) community development
activities - upto a maximum of US$1000 per eligible comrnunity development activity.
Any deviations from these loan ceilings will have to be cleared by IDA/IFAD.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on loan ceilings on sub-loans to prevent
concentration in large land holdings and to ensure effective utilization of grants.



- 23 -
3.23   Loans will be made by Agroprombank and only for the following four broad types of
transactions:
(a)    Working Capital Requirements. Up to 90 percent of the capital required for one to three
year period and grace period ranging from six months to one year. A working capital
credit ceiling will be determined depending upon the needs of the crop/livestock/small
business activity to be undertaken;
(b)    Farm Machinery, Equipment and Small-scale Processing Units. Up to 90 percent of
the investment required for a term of 7 years with a two year grace period. The loan
approvals would be determined on the basis of business plans, eligibility criteria as
indicated in Text Box 3.1 and economic and financial viability;
(c)    Land Improvements/On-farm Infrastructure Works.  A one time grant of up to 25
percent of the investment required would be provided. The remaining 75 percent of the
investment required for land improvement/on-farm infrastructure works would be
provided for up to a term of 10 years with a five year grace period and would depend
upon the collateral arrangements and the repayment capability of the borrowers; and
(d)    Community Development Activities. Working capital loans of up to 90 percent of the
capital required for one to three years and a one-time capital grant of up to 50 percent
of the total capital required for commercially viable activities and the remaining balance
of 50 percent will be provided as a term credit to the beneficiaries.
F. COST RECOVERY
3.24   The Government has a provision for cost recovery for publicly funded irrigation and drainage
works. Presently, the farms are charged an annual water charge, based on calculations of water use and
this has little or no relationship to cost recovery of irrigation investments and operation and maintenance
costs. The parliament has passed the Irrigation and Amelioration Law, (June 5, 1996), which provides
for the establishment of Water Users Associations, cost recovery mechanisms and operation and
maintenance at the farm level. This law has been signed by the President. Under the project, the
following charges would be applied: (a) a betterment levy on all works associated with all off-farm
infrastructure improvement so as to recover about 50 percent of costs; and (b) water charges to recover
100 percent of the operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works.
3.25   The one-time capital grants channelled through APB amount to US$600,000 over five years for
on-farm works and community development activities. These grants are necessary to allow the project
farms to initiate on-farm works essential for start up, for which in the initial period, they cannot afford
to borrow. Community development grants are necessary because they are targeted at the most
vulnerable groups, with little or no marketable skills or assets. This grant will not constitute a serious
drain on the Government budget. At the end of the three year period, the Government will evaluate the
benefits and replicability of the grant program.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1   Successful implementation of all project components requires people with different skills and
functions to work together to achieve mutually agreed goals to meet the needs of the newly emerging
privatized farms. This will require effective and timely coordination of principally the staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture, State Land Committee, State Irrigation Committee, State Property Committee,
Agroprombank and the farm members undergoing the privatization process. The project organization and
management would consist of the State Commission for Farm Privatization and Project Management Unit
at the National level and Project Implementation Units at the Raion level. The Organization and
Management chart is shown in Figure 4.1.
National Level
4.2   State Commission for Farm Privatization: Since the project requires inter-ministerial and inter-
agency co-operation, a state commission for farm privatization has been set up to perform this function,
and a Presidential decree has been issued. (Presidential decree No. 495 dated September 19,1996). This
commission is chaired by the First Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of Agrarian Reform
Commission, with the Minister of Agriculture as the Deputy Chairman, and members drawn from the
President's Administration, Agro-industrial Department of the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Finance,
Justice, State Land Committee, State Irrigation Committee, State Veterinary Committee, State Property
Committee, Agroprombank, Cabinet of Ministers from Nakhichevan Republic and Raion administrators
from Barda, Lenkoran, Salyan, Udjar and Xachmaz. The commission would provide national policy
guidance, and co-ordinate various project activities needed for implementation. The commission has
endorsed the first year work plan and budget for the implementation of the project and this was agreed
during negotiations.
4.3   Project Management Unit (PMU): The day to day implementation of the project will be carried
out by the PMU. It is headed by a director assisted by a deputy director and a few specialists drawn
from the MOA, SLC, SIC, and other areas as required. The director of the PMU will report to the
Deputy Prime Minister of Agriculture and work in close coordination with the Minister for Agriculture.
Its main functions will be: (i) to provide overall guidance and assist each Project Implementation Unit
in the preparation, design and implementation of the project; (ii) carry out all work related to
procurement, disbursement, audit, reporting and monitoring of progress. Initially, in the first and second
year of project implementation, the Project Management Unit is expected to play a significant role in the
implementation of the project at the raion level.
Raion Level
4.4   Project Implementation Units (PIUs): The PIU's will be responsible for the implementation of
the project in the raions. It would consist of members drawn from the Agrokombinat, raion level SIC,
SLC, APB branch, WUA chairman and representatives from the farm. They will jointly develop the
farm level privatization program and the agreed work plan and budget would be sent to the State
Conmmission for Farm Privatization for review and approval. The raion administrator will be in charge
for overall project management at the raion level. The PMUIPIU would be assisted by short-term



Azerbajan Republic
Farn Privatization Project
Figure 4.1. Project Organization and Management
State Agrarian Reforn
State Commission for Farm Privatization              ................i                  Comrnission
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... I... ...l< '3
Staft lrrigaWn  Sb" Land E ~~~  Ministry ofAgriculture  Projed Management Unit (Pmu)                                       MinistinirtryoofFiinanc
~~~ -  -1-   ;  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   -   ^                                                                   - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State Level
|0sn Insttt
Agent Bank
Farm 6telopment Unit -                           -------- I....... ~~ Agroprombank
rConstruduh   |    |    Operation 8,    |   5        -       iFarm aevelopmennit Udt-  |             Raion Administration Project         Ralon Agrarian Reform
Corpani s             MaintenaiceUnit                                  Agrcu ure                        Implementaton Unit             *     Commission                                       t
-.................
Raion Branches of
Agroprombank
Ralo,n Level
_________________________________                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Village  Level
Village Agrarian Reform:
Commlssion
lVoluntar oLoupso                                                                                    
Farmnrs         |                      Co-operatives                                         F  | individualPrivate Farms   ||Farm AssodatUons|



- 26 -
consultants. It was agreed during negotiations that the Government would appoint qualified staff and
provide them with an incentive system linked to performance for PMU and in the project implementation
units. The roles, responsibilities and functions of the various institutions/agencies at the state and raion
levels involved in the implementation of the project have been described in Annex A-1.
B. IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.5    The farm privatization sub-components will be implemented in two overlapping operations. The
first operation would consist of activities required for the privatization of land and preparing it for farm
restructuring to take place in the project farms. The second operation would consist of investment
activities to enable the privatized farm units resulting from the restructuring process to operate as
independent units in a market economy. During negotiations, agreement was reached that land
privatization and farm restructuring process would be carried out in accordance with the guiding
principles described in Text Box 2.2, which are in accordance with the Law on Land Reform (Law No.
166 dated July 16, 1996) and Law on Kolkhoz and Sovkhoz Reform (Law No. 978 dated February 18,
1995).
First: The activities to be carried out during the first operation are:
(i)    Technical and administrative processes for providing certificates and titles for the
privatized farm units on each farm, so that they can operate as independent units/
enterprises in a market economy;
(ii)    Complete the rehabilitation of water distribution structures, desilting and cleaning of
canals, drainage and sub-surface drainage systems and field level improvements and
irrigation layouts for the project farms;
(iii)   Create legally registered water users associations;
(iv)   Complete the training of the staff of Project Management Unit, Project Implementation
Units at the raion levels, Agroprombank, State Land Committee and the farm
development units both in Baku and in the project raions; and
(v)    Initiate the process of preparing business plans for private farm units for evaluation by
Agroprombank.
Second: The activities to be carried out in the second stage are:
(i)    Establish privately operated agricultural input supply service centers for fertilizers,
pesticides, machinery services, processing and marketing services for the privatized farm
units emerging out of the restructuring process;
(ii)    Continue the training of staff of PMU, PIU's, Agroprombank, SLC and Farm
Development Units in Baku and in project raions;
(iii)   Evaluate business plans and process loan applications for working capital, on-farm
investments, input and machinery services, processing and marketing activities, etc. and



- 27 -
(iii)   Obtain approval of the sub-loans from the raion level implementation unit for loans upto
US$30,000 and from the State Commission for Farm Privatization for loans above
US$30,000.
Implementation of Farm Privatization Support Services
4.6    Land Registration Services: The successful implementation of the land registration services will
require a multi-disciplinary team of specialists in geodesy, agricultural land use, land registration and law.
A central registration support unit would be established at Baku in the offices of SLC and the registration
offices at each of the project raions will be strengthened. The central unit would consist of specialists
drawn from the State Land Committee, State Land Use Organization and Project Institute (SLUOP), State
Committee on Geodesy and Cartography (SCGC) and the Ministry of Justice (MOJ). During the initial
period of project implementation, the central unit is expected to play an important role in the management
and implementation of the registration services in the project farms. During this period, the raion level
officials would be trained in new methods and techniques that can subsequently be replicated to other
farms. These functions would be carried out by the state committee for geodesy and cartography and
land institute, consisting of specialists in geodesy, survey and agricultural land use, acting as registration
support units. They will provide support in the following areas:
(a)    Development of standardized procedures and methodologies for adoption of aerial
photographs, ground surveying, demarcation of land features and updating of maps to
function as a registration support unit;
(b)    Specialized support services such as photogrammetric mapping and land surveys; and
(c)    Training support to rayon SLC and LI zonal offices in the use of computers, total station
surveying and other specialized equipment.
4.7    Farm Information and Advisory Services. The successful implementation of farm information
and advisory services would require a multi-disciplinary team of specialists in agriculture, livestock, farm
management, irrigation, economics, finance and law. The farm development unit (FDU) in the Ministry
of Agriculture in Baku and in the Department of Agriculture (Agrokombinat) in each of the project raions
would be responsible for the implementation of the farm information and advisory services. Since the
process of farm privatization requires involvement and support of multiple agencies, the staff will be
selected from the existing personnel from the Ministry of Agriculture (Baku) and the Agrokombinats in
the raions, state land committee and state irrigation committee. The selected staff will be redeployed to
work as a team in the farm development units. The FDU would include an agronomist, economist,
veterinarian, credit specialist, irrigation water management engineer and construction engineer and land
registration specialist. The Ministry of Justice would provide support for formalizing certificate and title
deeds. FDU personnel would be provided with necessary training in farm privatization principles,
procedures, information development and dissemination.  During the initial period of project
implementation, the central unit in Baku is expected to play an important role in the management and
implementation of the farm support services in the project farms. During this period, the raion level
officials would be trained in new methods and techniques that can subsequently be replicated to other
farms.



- 28 -
Irrigation and Drainage Works
4.8    Field Level Irrigation and Drainage Works will be executed by the privatized farm units
following the guidelines, standards and estimates recommended by the State Irrigation Planning and
Design Institute (SIPDI) under the guidance of farm guides of raion level Agrokombinat. Credit for the
on-farm works will be provided out of the project funds through the Agroprombank, as term loan, subject
to the eligibility criteria set out in Text Box 3.1.
4.9    Main Irrigation Water Supply and Drainage Works. These, including the access roads, will
be executed by contractors in accordance with the standard specification of SIPDI and will be supervised
by the raion level irrigation engineer of the SIC. The Raion Administration, Department of Agriculture
and SIC would adopt a set of criteria and weights by which the individual canal, drainage collector, and
access roads would be ranked for execution. SIPDI will be responsible for overall supervision of these
works,
4r 10   Community Development Component. The implementation of this pilot operation will be
carried out with the assistance of an International Non-Governmental Organization (NGO). Priority for
support would be based on: (a) income level; (b) existing social services and infrastructure networks; and
(c) willingness of the community to adopt a participatory approach. Agreement was reached during
negot iations that before initiation of any community development activities, the Government would select
and appoint a suitably qualified Non-Governmental Organization, acceptable to IDA/IFAD to assist in
the preparation and execution of the community development program.
C. STATUS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Present Status
4. 11  The status of project design, components, implementation and financing arrangements is as
follows: (i) the concepts underlying the farm privatization process; limited scope of the project; and the
activities to be undertaken in each of the project components have been agreed; (ii) privatization
commissions at the raion and farm levels have been established; the process of assessing non-land assets
and allocation of land shares is being completed; (iii) a memorandum of understanding between the
Agroprombank and MOF outlining the terms and conditions of on-lending has been agreed; (iv) the State
Irrigation Committee has awarded the contract to SIPDI for farm irrigation and drainage rehabilitation
works; and (v) training of eight key officials in land registration aspects was undertaken in Canada,
funded by the Canadian Trust Fund, to obtain first hand information about the functioning of land
registration office, real estate office, land market transactions, state surveying and mapping agency,
municipalities, etc.
Iniplementation Schedule
4.12   The project will be implemented over a five year period. A summary of the implementation
schedule for various critical activities and their timings are presented in Annex A-2. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that the Government shall not reverse the provisions provided in the land
reform law for individual land ownership and the freedom to use, buy, sell, present, exchange, mortgage,
rent out and inherit land during the execution of the project.



- 29 -
D. PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
4.13   Procurement of all goods and services for the project would follow World Bank guidelines,
(Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits, January 1995). Locally manufactured
goods would be eligible for domestic preference as provided in Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. The use
of Bank's standard bidding documents: Procurement of Goods (January 1995) would be mandatory for
all ICB procurement. Selection of consultants for technical assistance and training would follow World
Bank guidelines, (Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency, August 1981). A general procurement notice will be published in the Development
Business in January 1997, informing potential bidders of procurement activities and the expected release
of bidding documents. The Project Launch Workshop will be conducted in Baku, Azerbaijan in February
1997, where project components, organization and implementation arrangements, procurement methods,
and disbursement procedures to be used for all project financed contracts will be discussed with the
project staff and the beneficiaries.
Procurement Arrangements
4.14   All Procurement for the project would be coordinated and approved by the Project Management
Unit. The State Irrigation Committee (SIC) would be responsible for the procurement of irrigation and
drainage works. State Land Committee (SLC) will be responsible for the procurement of the goods and
services required for land registration. All procurement related activities will be carried out by trained
staff located in each of the implementing agencies. They will be responsible for the organization and
management of project procurement activities within their agencies and would report to PMU. However,
the Director, PMU will be responsible for the overall management and supervision of project
procurement. The local procurement staff would be trained by an internationally recruited procurement
specialist in Bank procurement guidelines and procedures, on a full time basis for an initial period for
six months. The performance of the procurement consultant and the need for extension would be assessed
during project supervision and appropriate modifications, will be made accordingly. The project involves
the procurement of civil works, goods and equipment and services by public and by private sector
agencies. Procurement procedures are described in the following paragraphs and summarized in Table
4.1. The project procurement plan providing details of various procurement packages is presented in
Annex B.
Goods and Equipment
4.15  International Competitive Bidding (ICB):  Goods and equipment, estimated to cost above
US$200,000, such as equipment for PMU/PIU offices, cadastral survey and mapping equipment,
laboratory equipment for SLC, maintenance machinery for SIC, computers and vehicles would be
packaged appropriately and procured following ICB procedures. Domestic manufactures would be given
a preferential margin which would be determined according to the methodology described in Appendix
2 (Domestic Preference) of the Guidelines.
4.16  International Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (NS): International Shopping will be used for
readily available, off the shelf goods and equipment valued at US$200,000 or less per contract up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000. IS would be based on quotations from at least three
suppliers in two different countries. National Shopping would be used where the desired goods are
ordinarily available locally from more than one source at competitive prices and normally for small value
purchases valued at US$50,000 or less per contract.



- 30 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US $ Millions)
I Expenditure Category                      ICB         NCB        Other          Total
1. Civil Works                             4.3         0.2        0.1 a/         4.6 b/
(2.2)                                 (2.2)
2.  Goods                                  1.2                    0.4c/          1.6/d
(1.0)                  (0.3)          (1.3)
3.  Technical Assistance                   --                     2.9e/          2.9/f
(2.4)         (2.4)
4.  Training                              --                       1.4e/         1.4/g
(1.1)         (1.1)
5.  Line of Credit                        --                      12.8 h/       12.8/i
(5.6)         (5.6)
6.  Operating Costs                       --                      4.6 j/          4.6k/
(1.2)         (1.2)
7.  Project Preparation Facility          --                      0.91/           0.9
(0g9!         (0.9)
Total                                     5.5          0.2       23.1           28.8
(3.2)                  (11.5)         (14.7)
Notes:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA; discrepancies are due to rounding up of numbers.'
ICB : International Competitive Bidding;   NCB: National Competitive Bidding
a)       Simplified NCB requiring sealed bids through three price quotations
b/       Cofinanced with IFAD (US$ 1.5 million).
c/      Intemational shopping
dl       Cofinanced with IFAD (US$0.3 million).
e)       Services to be procured in accordance with Bank's Consultant Guidelines, August 1981.
fU       Cofinanced with IFAD (US$ 0.5 million).
g/       Cofinanced with IFAD (US$0.3 million).
h/       Procurement tiresholds for works, goods and services under the line of credit as at Para. 4.19
i/       Cofinanced with IFAD (US$ 5.9 million).
j/       Incremental operating expenses consisting of salaries, vehicle operating costs, office supplies, communication, etc. would be
financed on a sliding scale, viz., 80% in the first and second year, 60% in the third and fourti years and 40% in the fifth year
kl       Cofinanced with IFAD (US$0.8 million).
1/       PPF refinancing for goods, services, civil works and operating costs, includes Direct Contracting for the design of Irrigation and
Drainage Works from SIPDI, total value US$ 160,000.
Civil Works
4.17    Civil works mostly consists of rehabilitation of main and secondary canals and water control
structures. These will be grouped together, as far as possible, into one contract for each raion. A total
of five contracts are expected ranging in size from a minimum of US$150,000 to a maximum of US$1.7
million in the five raions. Only one contract for irrigation rehabilitation works is expected to be below
US$200,000, following NCB procedures. The remaining four contracts would be procured through ICB,
using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for small works. Domestic contractors would be eligible
for domestic preference according to Bank guidelines. Civil works construction organizations are present
in nearly all five raions, which during the Soviet era, developed considerable construction capabilities.
These former state organizations have recently been privatized and converted into joint stock companies;
have financial and managerial autonomy and do not receive subsidy from Government and therefore meet



- 31 -
the eligibility criteria of the Bank's guidelines.  These joint stock companies would be permitted to
participate in the bidding for works, provided they meet the qualification criteria.
4.18   Procurement of pumping and sprinkler irrigation system equipment would generally involve
supply and install contracts which would include proper installation of imported pumping and sprinkler
equipment by the supplier. The project would finance three such contracts costing about US$60,000
each. Civil works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for office rehabilitation will be undertaken
using simplified NCB procedures, i.e. lump sum, fixed price contract awarded on the basis of quotations
from three domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
Procurement Under On-Lending Terms and Conditions by Final-Borrowers
4.19  In the first year of project implementation, the PMU in coordination with Agroprombank would
assist the privatized farms/enterprises in procurement activities. In the following years, assistance will
be provided only if required by the farm units. Subprojects would be financed in part by the IDA/IFAD
credit line and in part by the final beneficiaries' own funds. Therefore, the subproject size will exceed
the sub-loan amounts. Based on this, the following procurement thresholds will apply: (i) procurement
of goods estimated to cost up to US$50,000 may be procured on the basis of three quotations in the
domestic market; (ii) contracts for goods between US$50,000 and US$200,000 will be required to follow
the Bank's International Shopping (IS) procedure, and above US$200,000 will follow ICB procedures;
(iii) all field level civil works, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract,would be awarded on
the basis of three quotations in the domestic market, in response to written invitation. Those works which
are estimated to cost between US$50,000 and US$200,000 will follow NCB procedures acceptable to
Bank. The borrower will use Bank's sample NCB document. There is little likelihood that there will
be works which would cost above US$200,000 under line of credit. In the event that such a contract may
cost above US$200,000, then ICB procedures will be followed. The general sub-loan agreement between
the farms/enterprises and the Agroprombank would provide for such an arrangement.
Technical Assistance
4.20   The project would finance technical assistance and training program for institutional development.
A number of short-term and long-term consulting services for various specialized activities such as farm
privatization, land registration system, credit, accounting and financial systems, construction and
management of irrigation systems, Water User Association, etc, would be provided for the
implementation of the project. As far as possible, the consulting services required for the project
implementation will be aggregated and will be procured on the basis of short listing of firms. For short
term assignments of specialized nature, individual consultants would be used and the selection will be
made from short-listed candidates acceptable to the Bank which will review the candidate's CVs
experience and performance. The project will provide for a sole source (SS) contract for the preparation
of detailed irrigation and drainage design between the State Irrigation Committee and the Irrigation
Design Institute (SIPDI). This sole source contract is not expected to exceed US$160,000. This is being
done since SIPDI has the necessary basic data and expertise and would be cost effective.
Prior Review
4.21  IDA shall review the procurement arrangements, including contract packaging, applicable
procedures and the scheduling of the procurement process as stated in Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. All
ICB procurement of goods and works will be subject to prior review. The Bank will also pre-review the
first two NCB contracts for civil works. Consultancy assignments valued at greater than US$100,000
with consulting firms, if any, and assignments valued at greater than US$50,000 with individuals, if any,



- 32 -
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. However, prior review shall apply to all terms of references,
sole source selection and assignments of critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Incremental Operating Costs
4.22  Incremental operating costs consist of incremental staff salaries, vehicle operating costs, office
supplies and office communication expenses. Incremental operating costs will be financed to operate
PMU and PIUs on a sliding scale, 80 percent in the first and second year, 60 percent in the third and
fourth year and 40 percent in year five. Procurement of small equipment and supplies, if any, under
operating costs will follow the threshlolds and prior review requirements specified in paragraphs 4.15 and
4.16.
E. DISBuRSEMENT
4.23   The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001. IDA funds would be disbursed
either directly or through the Special Account on the basis of "Withdrawal Requests" signed by authorized
signatories under the control of the Project Management Unit (PMU). IDA financing would follow the
normal World Bank disbursement procedures as summarized in the Disbursement Handbook. A schedule
of the estimated disbursement of the proposed IDA credit is shown in Annex C.
4.24   Disbursements would be made against eligible project expenditures for civil works, goods,
technical assistance, training and studies; credit; and operating costs according to the percentages of
expenditures indicated in Table 4.2. Disbursements for contracts of or above US$50,000 equivalent would
be made against full documentation, and for those less than this amount will be made against statements
of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents would be retained in the Project Office in Baku and in
the raion project implementation units and will be made available for IDA/IFAD supervision missions
and for external auditors. These will be kept for at least three years after disbursement. It was agreed
during negotiations that as a condition of disbursement, payments for expenditures in respect of civil
works and credit to privatizedfarm units from IDA and IFAD proceeds would be made only for the sub-
project selected, approved and implemented in accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria,
specified in Schedule I of the Credit Agreement and satisfactory to IDA/IFAD.
F. SPECIAL ACCOUNT
4.25    The Government of Azerbaijan Republic has established, under conditions acceptable to IDA,
a special account in US Dollars in the International Bank of Azerbaijan to facilitate timely project
implementation. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would
be limited to US$100,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached
the level of US$1.00 Million equivalent, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized
allocation of US$300,000 by submitting the relevant application for withdrawal. Replenishment
application should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The Ministry of Finance will send requests to IDA
for replenishment of the Special Account, accompanied by detailed monthly bank statements for the
account in Baku. IDA will replenish only the principal special account established in the name of the
Government of Azerbaijan. It was agreed during negotiations that a project account will be opened in
a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank by the Government and would deposit US$150, 000 in local
currency equivalent to meet the needs of counterpart funds requiredfor project implementation. This is
a condition of project effectiveness.



- 33 -
Table 4.2: IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLIONS)
Category                     Credit       Percent of expenditure to be
Allocation             fmanced
(US$ millions)
1. Civil Works                                 2.22    80%  net of taxes
2. Goods                                       1.17    100% of foreign expenditures.
Equipment, Machinery & Vehicles                   100 % of local expenditures ex
factory cost and 75 % of
expenditures for locally procured
items
3. Services: Technical Assistance, Training    2.87    100% net of taxes
& Studies
4. Privatized Farm Credit Services             5.60    100% of amounts disbursed
5. Operating Costs                             1.25     Year 1 and Year 2 - 80%
Year 3 and Year 4 - 60%
Year 5 - 40%
6. Refund of PPF Advance                       0.90
7. Unallocated                                 0.68
Total                         14.70               100%
G. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
4.26   The project would establish an accounting and control system which will have the capability of
recording and retrieving all financial transactions associated with the project in a timely manner and
comply with internationally accepted accounting standards. This will be used for tracking both the
counterpart funds and that to be provided by IDA credit and IFAD loan. These accounts will be
maintained at PMU, Baku; in each of the participating raion administrations and by Agroprombank for
the credit provided to privatized farms.
4.27   The annual accounts for the project, including SOEs and special accounts for each fiscal year,
and sub-project accounts of the borrowers, would be audited in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. It will be carried out by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA The auditors
would be appointed by the borrower and sub-borrowers early in the fiscal year, so that the auditors may
commence their reviews sufficiently early in the fiscal year to complete the audit on a timely basis. It was
agreed during negotiations that the Government would provide, within six months of the end of each



- 34 -
Governmentalfiscal year, an audit report of such scope and details as IDA/IFAD may request, including
a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA/IFAD, on disbursements. This would
be a project covenant.
H. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
4.28   The Project Management Unit, with the assistance of each of the PIUs and the Agroprombank
will be responsible for the preparation of necessary reports to be submitted to the Government and to
IDA/IFAD. These periodic reports will monitor the progress of the project, identify potential problem
areas in implementation and assist the periodic supervision missions to be carried out by IDA/IFAD.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the provision and content of periodic progress reports,
which reviews the status of project execution, identification of problems relating to project execution or
areas in which the project execution could be improved to ensure the efficient implementation of the
project and the achievement of project objectives. These reports will focus on the following broad areas:
(i)    Privatization Process. This would consist of quarterly reports indicating the status of the
privatization of the project farms, individual land parcels allocated, issuance of titles,
main bottlenecks encountered and remedial actions to be taken;
(ii)   Physical Performance of the Project. This would consist of semi-annual reports showing
actual and planned performance of all the physical indicators of the project, such as on-
farm and off-farm irrigation and drainage works, farm access roads, etc. These reports
will be submitted to IDA no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter and would
specifically highlight problem areas, bottlenecks and show an action plan for remedial
actions;
(iii)   Financial Progress. This would consist of quarterly reports indicating: (i) a schedule
of SOE expenditures and amounts; (ii) summary of the Special account activity and
reconciliation with the Special account balance and the project account; and (iii)
Agroprombank to provide on a quarterly basis unaudited accounts for the sub-loans and
sub-grants financed by the credit line; and
(iv)   Audit Reports. The financial statements and the auditor's opinion and associated reports
would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after completion of the fiscal year.
I. IDA/IFAD SUPERVISION
4.29   The supervision plan in Annex A-5 provides details on IDA supervision mission. IDA will
supervise the IFAD financed components.



- 35 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1    The main benefit of the project is the development of new models of farm restructuring, farm
support and production structures necessary for the transformation of the agricultural sector into a
competitive market oriented system and which could be replicated to other parts of the country. This
requires reasonably secure and registered land rights; improved information and advisory services;
favorable relative agricultural input and output prices; combination of credit/grants to provide for
seasonal working capital requirements, longer term finance for essential farm equipment, land levelling
and rehabilitation of irrigation systems to provide reliable water supply to farms and relief from the
obligation to finance social assets.
B. ECONOMic AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
5.2    Consistency with Country Assistance Strategy: The objectives and the activities envisaged in the
proposed project are consistent with the Bank's overall priorities for private and financial sector strategies
outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),3' with the recommendations made in the Bank's
Agricultural Sector Review undertaken in July 1995, 4' and as agreed with the Government of Azerbaijan
Republic. The Government's recent initiatives to create an appropriate policy environment for land
privatization and farm restructuring provides the basis for the proposed project. These include the recent
passage and approval of the Land Reform Law and Irrigation and Amelioration Law in the Parliament,
gradual movement of energy prices towards international prices, reduction in Government's role in the
procurement of agricultural products and the liberalization of agricultural input and output prices and
trade.
5.3    Economic Benefits: The project would yield principally two broad types of economic benefits,
one, create and promote an enabling environment for privatized agriculture and two, increased crop
productivity and farm incomes.
5.4    Enabling environment for privatized agriculture: This would result from the following project
activities:
(a)    Land Registration System. The modernization and security of the land registration
system with appropriate procedures would provide clarity of land titles, instill confidence
in individuals over legal rights to land ownership, and form the basis for land mortgaging
terms, which would contribute to the development of land markets. During the project
period, it is expected that about 4800 land titles would be issued to private individuals;
(b)    Farm Information and Advisory Services. The farm information and advisory services
component is critical for ensuring that farmers are well informed about business and
organization alternatives and how to function in a market economy. The project's
emphasis on timely and wide dissemination during the privatization and restructuring
process beyond the project raions is expected to have a significant impact on similar
processes in other farms. The use of mass media and participatory workshops to build
3/     See Gray Cover Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Azerbaijan Republic,
Report No. 15948-AZ, dated August 27, 1996.
4/     See Green Cover Report No. 14541-AZ, dated July 5, 1995.



- 36 -
consensus and to develop community based programs is expected to promote "project
ownership" by the beneficiaries and the various agencies - critical elements to ensure
speedy project implementation. Increasing awareness of market economy would enable
the privatized farm units to evaluate relative profitability of alternative crop and livestock
activities and to enter new markets. The training and technical assistance being provided
is expected to result in a large number of trained people in the privatization process,
modern farm and enterprise management practices appropriate to a market economy;
(c)    Credit Services Support. Training the staff of the raion level branches of Agroprombank
in project appraisal methods, risk evaluation and techniques for financing working capital
and investment requirements for privatized farm structures, putting in place a modern
accounting system and providing credit on the basis of financial, economic, social and
technical viability are expected to provide valuable lessons in the development of a rural
financial system; and
(d)    Reorienting the Functions of Agriculture Department.  The management approach
suggested for this project is expected to begin the process of transformation of the
traditional functions of the Ministry of Agriculture at the state and raion levels. At the
state level, it would help to instill a team work ethic, while the collaborative work of
MOA, SLC, SIC is expected to improve work efficiency and reduction in duplication of
tasks. At the raion level, the new irrigation and drainage systems based on hydrological
boundaries would encourage greater efficiency and sustainability and make it easier for
the collection of water user charges and foster the formation of water user's associations.
Quantification of these institutional benefits would be made through periodic monitoring
of select indicators (provided in Annex A-4).
5.5   Increase in Crop Productivity and Farm Incomes: The complete liberalization of fruit, vegetable
and livestock products and all agricultural inputs, increase in prices of wheat and cotton, and prevalence
of a stable exchange rate regime over the last two years has increased the per hectare returns of the major
crops in the project area, which are: cotton, wheat, barley, forage crops, fruits and vegetables and
livestock products.  Given the good agro-ecological conditions and abundant supplies of energy,
Azerbaijan has a comparative advantage for efficient production in these agricultural products.
5.6    Given the nature of this project, and the difficulties in predicting the exact number of privatized
individual sub-projects to be financed, a project wide economic rate of return is not possible. However,
typical farm models have been analyzed to indicate the crop profitability and impact on farm incomes.
The financial rate of return for typical farm models are about 20 percent. Under fully liberalized
conditions, and using economic prices for inputs and outputs, the economic rates of return are about 25
percent. The underlying assumptions have been provided in Annex F. With privatization, changes in
the present cropping pattern are expected to occur which will involve an increase in perennial forage
legumes, introduction of maize, intensification of cotton, wheat, fruits and vegetables. Improvement in
the irrigation and drainage system would increase the cropping intensity from the present 83 percent to
117 percent, which would result from the cultivation of early maturing vegetables in addition to wheat
or cotton. The projected crop yields and cropping pattern are presented in Figure 5.1. Farm incomes
are expected to rise by about 50 to 100 percent in real terms over a five year period. Improved
technology practices combined with the efficiency expected from an "owner operated farm enterprise"



Figure 5.1 - Cropping Pattern and Yields at Pre-Project (1996) and At Full Development (2001)
Pre-project (Cropping Intensity 83%)                                      Full Development (Cropping Intensity 117%)
Vegetables                                                       Vegetables
4%                            Wheat                              12%                                       Wheat
Forage                                                    28%             :orage                                                      24%
22 0%Corn                  Barley                       22%                                                                 4%
3%         5%
Yields Without and With Project (1996 - 2001 )
14                           14
Fruits        hearConeCtto                                                                        Veealeeritsre
*ilsWithout Projecth (1996)ctWih_P9oject2001)
4 1--                                                                          *|~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14  14a
12 F-t  
ou H
=8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8
8O6                                               4                        
2. _
*Without Project (1996) *With Project (2001)



- 38 -
is expected to increase the overall farm profitability and farm incomes. This analysis reveals that typical
farm units would be able to pay for the betterment tax to recover 50 percent of the costs of improvements
in irrigation and drainage structures and land, as well as water charges covering the full costs of operation
and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and service the debt on their loans.
5.7    The economic and financial rates of return on these model farms drop to about 13 and 10 percent
respectively, if there is a 20 percent or more increase in total costs or decrease in total revenues. To
ensure that the project yields are achieved in the privatized farm units, the project would provide the
necessary farm support services and credit support. The risk of cost overruns is reduced by limiting the
investments to only rehabilitation works and those which meet the eligibility criteria (see para 3.17).
C. MARKETING ASPECTS
5.8    The market for agricultural produce is firmly set on adjusting to the market economy. Sales of
most farm products, including vegetables, fruit and livestock products are totally dictated by the free
market. In theory, state orders have continued to apply in 1995 to old kolkhozes and sovkhozes for
production of strategic commodities wheat (30 percent of output) and cotton. These state orders have
now been abolished.
5.9    Wheat marketing occurs at two levels: (i) any products contracted to the Government are paid
for at the point of delivery (local silo); and (ii) output beyond any contracted commitment is partially
conserved on the farm as seeds stock and the remainder is distributed to the farm workers as wages. Any
part of the workers' share not retained for family consumption is sold in local markets. It is expected
that all grain products in 1996 will be sold on the open market. With respect to cotton, it has been sold
mostly through the Liverpool commodities exchange and historically, the export crop has been sold to
a small number of European importers. Export sales are generally made f.o.b. at the Iran border on the
Caspian Sea and cotton is carried by lorry from the ginneries to the Persian Gulf for shipment.
Therefore, cotton exports are not affected by international blockades. Since 1993, Government has been
unable to totally refinance the cotton crop before export. Therefore, a payment of 30 percent of the lint
value is paid on delivery and the remainder from the export receipts - typically in April of the succeeding
year. This delay in payment is proving a major disincentive for producers and cotton production has
declined drastically, from 400,000 tons in 1991 to 273,000 tons in 1995. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the Government would adopt a plan, not later than March 31, 1997, for providing prompt
payments to farmers for the procurement of cotton.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.10   The project would be successful if it is replicable and the activities are sustainable beyond the
project life. The project's emphasis on essential support services, such as, land registration, farm
information and advisory services, (estimated to cost about US$5 million over a five year period in six
regions of the country) would lay the basis for building such services across the country.  It is
anticipated, that beyond this initial phase, the costs associated with public investment on these support
services could be recovered from the beneficiaries, through taxes, betterment levy or cess. The recurrent
costs of the support services beyond the project period has been estimated at about US$590,000 per year,
or about US$6 per hectare, and assumes that 50 percent of the total area in the five raions would be
serviced by this support service. Of this, about 22 percent comprises salaries of staff, and the remainder
are vehicle operating costs, office supplies, utilities and communication. As this project is part of the
Government's program for land privatization, the recurrent costs would be financed from existing
resources and through revenue collection from taxes and fees for land titles.



- 39 -
5.11   The investment needs for on-farm and inter-farm irrigation works are based on the minimum
required for rehabilitation so as to ensure timely water supply and improve water use efficiency in the
main, secondary and tertiary canals. These works are simple in their design, use locally available
materials and are easy to operate and maintain. Assuming that about 70 percent of the 1.4 million ha
of total agricultural lands under irrigation need to be rehabilitated, at the rate of about US$700/ha would
require a total investment of about US$700 million - averaging about US$35 million per year over a
twenty year period. In the case of the grant element, it is to be provided to on-farm investments only,
which at the assumed rate of 25 percent of US$400/ha, a total of US$100 million for a million hectares -
or US$5 million per year over a twenty year period is needed. The capitalization grants is necessary to
jump-start the privatization process and provide incentives to the first timers who are willing to take
market risks. Regarding the Government's ability to afford such a grant scheme, according to the
estimates provided by IMF and the World Bank, per capita GNP growth rates are expected to show large
increases beginning in 1998 of about 14 percent per year through the year 2003, largely fueled by
revenues from petroleum exports which are expected to be about $0.7, $1.1, $1.6 and $2.4 billion in
2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively. Given the possibility of such a scenario, the investment needs
and grant element incorporated in the project could be easily absorbed, if replicated in a nationwide scale,
with little or no fiscal impact.
E. POVERTY IMPACT
5.12   The proposed project's design incorporates several elements to minimize the potential and any
likely negative impact on certain farm members, especially in light of the significant decline in real wages
of the working population and erosion of savings during the last three years. This vulnerable group are
expected to be the newly laid off farm laborers, comparatively low income small holding farmers,
agricultural laborers, women,children and pensioners of the privatized project farms. The community
development component would: (i) promote people based community development activities using
participatory approaches; (ii) provide one-time grants to start new entrepreneurial activities; (iii)
strengthen local groups to take an active part in the land privatization and farm restructuring process
through participation, education and media campaign; (iv) provide opportunities for training to target
groups in a variety of new skill areas; and (v) encourage the development of support organizations such
as the water user's association and involve NGO's and local civic groups in various community
development programs.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.13   In accordance and consistent with the requirements of the Bank OD 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment", the project has been screened and placed into EA Category "B", which requires the
preparation of an environmental analysis to define environmental management, monitoring and mitigation
measures as necessary. The proposed actions are: (i) regular monitoring of effluents into collector drains
and ensuring that they are within environmentally acceptable limits; (ii) permit use of only
environmentally safe (FAO Codex) pesticides for crop production (a negative list of pesticides will be
provided to the concerned institutions; (iii) monitoring of soil and water salinity levels; and (iv) undertake
environmental and sociological studies to identify other environmental concerns and to determine
mitigatory measures. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the procedures, timing, and related
institutional arrangements for environmental assessment.
5.14   The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment. The rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage works is expected to help improve water use efficiency, check the process of



- 40 -
salinization and water logging, arrest the process of land degradation and enable more prudent use of
land. The ownership of land assets is expected to instill a greater sense of individual and community
responsibility and stimulate measures for the protection of the environment. The land use map using
modem techniques will enhance the ability to integrate data sets into the land register with beneficial
applications for monitoring and control of the environment. Details of the project environmental analysis
and the review procedures have been presented in Annex G.
G. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
5.15   The process and outcome of project interventions will be monitored and evaluated. A baseline
survey would be carried out during the first year of project implementation, covering all the project
raions participating in the project. Non-project farms would be included in the evaluation to form the
control group. As the pace of privatization is expected to proceed rapidly, annual surveys would be
conducted to determine the lessons learnt, what works and what does not work. Sufficient flexibility
would be provided in the project design to make changes as the lessons are learnt. The monitoring
indicators have been provided in Annex A-4. These are: (i) Farm Privatization Indicators covering a
wide range of variables, such as ownership, organization, attitudes, etc.; (ii) Privatization Impact
Indicators focussing on assessment of the effectiveness of information development and dissemination,
crop and livestock production, income levels, crop diversification, etc.; (iii) Social Impact Indicators
focussing on impact on target group, provision of social services, social stress, etc.; (iv) Project
Replicability Indicators, such as average cost of privatization support services per privatized farm,
irrigation and drainage, on-farm investment costs per ha of privatized farm, etc.; (v) Physical Indicators
focussing on inter-farm irrigation and drainage works, on-farm investments, etc.; and (vi) Financial
Indicators, such as recovery rates of sub-loans, debt service, cost recovery for infrastructure investment,
expenditures, etc. Special studies would be carried out by independent groups and a mid-term review
undertaken to draw lessons from the privatization process in the project farms. During negotiations, it
was agreed that all project beneficiaries would report to IDAIIFAD on a half-yearly basis on the status
of the agreed key monitoring and evaluation indicators which would be a project covenant.
H. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
5.16   The administration of the land privatization process in the Azerbaijan Republic essentially is a
bottom up approach, where the broad based local commissions at the farm or village level are provided
with adequate authority to decide on important issues concerning land distribution. The project has built
in several features which would strengthen this approach and consistently involve the beneficiaries in the
management of the project and be responsible for the outcome. The representation of the farms by
elected officials in the Project Steering Committee, Central Project Implementation Unit and the Raion
project implementation units in each of the project raions would ensure that their interests are made
known and actions by consensus are taken, so as to maximize beneficiary involvement. The creation of
water users' associations and groups would secure farmer's participation in decision making for water
scheduling, distribution, cost recovery operation and maintenance. Project's emphasis on wide-spread
dissemination and awareness campaign using different mass media of the privatization procedures and
experience of the process would help the beneficiaries make informed decisions. The involvement of an
NGO would help develop, promote and implement people-based community development activities.
Participatory approaches which were used during the preparation of the project to develop needs based
components and to build consensus would be an integral part throughout project implementation period.



- 41 -
I. PROJECT RISKS
5.17   The project faces four main risks. These relate to: (i) sustainability of privatized farms as
financially viable units; (ii) replicability of this project; (iii) Government's ability to co-ordinate the multi-
disciplinary activities needed for privatization and farm restructuring; and (iv) lack of implementation
experience.
(i)    Project Replicability.  The first risk relates to the extent to which the incentives,
procedures, policies, investments and selection criteria used in this project could be
replicated to other parts of the country, for, herein, lies the success of the project.
Although the project farms have been chosen to be representative and have agreed to the
principles of farm restructuring, there is a risk that some may not co-operate. In this
event, the project would provide for other farms in the raion to participate who are
willing to go through the agreed processes and procedures. In addition, the project's
emphasis on periodic public dissemination of the privatization and restructuring process
throughout the raion and in other parts of the country is expected to jump start other
privatization initiatives;
(ii)    Sustaining Financial Viability of Privatized Farms. The second risk is the continued
ability of the privatized farm units to operate as financially viable operations and be able
to service the working capital and investment loans. In this regard, the financial analysis,
based on conservative yield increases and current market prices, reveals that the "new
privatized farms" would be able to generate sufficient cash flows to repay loans. The
size of farm holdings would range between 5 to 10 ha per family household, which
together with their household "garden plots" and cattle would provide adequate income
to continue farming. However, if the price liberalization policies were to be reversed,
and the prices remain unchanged, then the rate of return becomes marginal, yielding
about 12 percent. The implementation of the Government's price and trade liberalization
policies, expected macro-economic stabilization in the near term, resolution of border
conflicts and opening of marketing channels is expected to sustain the financial viability
of the privatized farms. In this regard, a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, which
would address the broader policy reform areas of liberalization of input and output
prices, dismantling of state monopolies and removal of trade restrictions on agricultural
inputs and outputs is expected to further minimize this risk;
(iii)   Coordination and Sequencing of Pre-and Post-Privatization Activities. The third risk
is the ability of the Government to co-ordinate the various tasks, sequencing and timely
delivery of the services required for farm privatization and restructuring to take place.
A clear assignment of agency responsibilities and supervision by the State Commission
for Farm Privatization is expected to mitigate the co-ordination problem; and
(iv)   Lack of Implementation Experience. The fourth risk relates to potential delays in
project implementation due to lack of experience of the implementing agencies in
IDA/IFAD procedures; obtaining Government agreement to the various criteria, funding
mechanisms and co-financing arrangements. The project has taken steps to commence
project start up activities through training of key officials in various project related areas,
provision of technical assistance; obtaining the most important agreements and
commitments from the Government before negotiations and involving IFAD at an early
stage of project processing to avoid delays in finalizing co-financing arrangements.



- 42 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. PROJECT AGREEMENTS REACHIED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1    During credit negotiations between the Government of Azerbaijan Republic and the International
Development Association, the following agreements were reached:
(i)    Appointment of qualified staff and establishment of an incentive system linked to job
performance for Project Management Unit (PMU) and the project implementation units
(PIU's), definition of roles, responsibilities and functions of the various
institutions/agencies at the state and raion levels involved in the implementation of the
project [Para. 4.4];
(ii)   The first year annual work plan and budget for the implementation of the project, which
has been endorsed by the State Commission for Farm Privatization [Para. 4.2];
(iii)   Agreement on the project financing plan; budgetary provisions for the allocation of
counterpart funds, and terms and conditions for the operation of project account [Para.
3.16);
(iv)   Agreement between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Agroprombank outlining the
terms and conditions and obligations of the two parties and terms of providing
institutional strengthening support [Para. 3.19];
(v)    Land privatization and farm restructuring process would be carried out in accordance
with the guiding principles described in Text Box 2.2, which are in accordance with the
Law on Land Reform (Law No. 166 dated July 16, 1996) and Law on Kolkhoz and
Sovkhoz Reform (Law No. 978 dated February 18, 1995) [Para. 4.5];
(vi)   The Government of the Azerbaijan Republic shall not reverse the provisions provided in
the land reform law for individual land ownership and the freedom to use, buy, sell,
present, exchange, mortgage, rent out and inherit land during the execution of the project
[Para. 4.12];
(vii)  Environmental assessment would be carried out in accordance with the agreed
procedures, timing, and that related institutional arrangements would be in place by 31
December 1998 [Para. 5.13];
(viii)  Agreement on the periodic submission of progress reports, which reviews the status of
project execution, identification of problems relating to project execution or areas in
which the project execution could be improved to ensure the efficient implementation of
the project and the achievement of project objectives [Para. 4.28];
(ix)   Agreement on limits, size of farms and types of beneficiaries for: (a) sub-loans to prevent
concentration in large holdings; and (b) grants so as to ensure effective utilization of
funds [Para. 3.22]; and



- 43 -
(x)    The Government shall appoint a suitably qualified Non-Governmental Organization,
acceptable to IDA/IFAD to assist in the preparation and execution of the community
development program [Para. 4.10].
B. CONDITIONS FOR PROJECT EFFECTIVENESS
6.2   The execution of the IFAD Loan agreement for the project is a condition of credit effectiveness
[Para. 3.181.
6.3   The execution of a satisfactory Agency Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and
Agroprombank is a condition of credit effectiveness [Para. 3.191; and
6.4.   The opening and maintenance of a project account in a commercial bank, acceptable to
IDA/IFAD, and deposit of US$150,000 equivalent in local currency to meet the counterpart funds
required for project implementation [Para. 4.251.
C. CONDITIONS FOR PROJECT DISBuRSEMENT
6.5   Payments for expenditures in respect of civil works and credit to privatized farm units from IDA
and IFAD proceeds would be made only for the sub-project selected, approved and implemented in
accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria, specified in Schedule I of the Credit Agreement
and satisfactory to IDA/IFAD [Para. 4.241.
D. PROJECT COVENANTS
6.6   The following are the project covenants:
(i)    All project beneficiaries to report to IDA/IFAD on a half-yearly basis on the status of the
agreed key monitoring and evaluation indicators [Para. 5.15];
(ii)   The Governrent would provide, within six months of the end of each Governmental
fiscal year, an audit report of such scope and details as IDA/IFAD may request,
including a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA/IFAD, on
disbursements [Para. 4.271; and
(iii)   The Government would adopt a plan not later than March 31, 1997, for providing prompt
payments to farmers for the procurement of cotton [Para. 5.9].
E. RECOMMENDATION
6.7   Subject to the above agreements, the proposed Farm Privatization Project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR 10.2 million (US$14.7 million equivalent) for a period of 35 years, including a
grace period of 10 years at standard IDA terms and conditions. The Borrower would be the Government
of Azerbaijan Republic.



- 44 -                                 ANNEX A-I
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX A-1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
STAFFING, FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1.     This annex describes the staffing, functions and responsibilities for each of the project
implementing agencies involved in the project.  These are: Project Steering Committee, Project
Management Unit, Project Implementation Units in each of the participating raions, State Land
Committee, State Irrigation Committee, and Agroprombank.
Project Steering Committee
2.    This will be located in the First Deputy Prime Minister's office, Agrarian reform, Baku. The
steering committee will be chaired by the First Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Agrarian
Reform Commission with the Minister of Agriculture as the Deputy Chairman; and its members drawn
from the President's Administration, Agro-industrial department of the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry
of Finance, Justice, State Land Committee, State Irrigation Committee, Agroprombank, Cabinet of
Ministers from Nakhichevan Republic and Raion administrators from Barda, Lenkoran, Salyan, Udjar
and Xachmaz. This committee would work closely with the Agrarian Reform Commissions at the state,
raion and farm levels.
3.    The main responsibilities are to:
3     Develop procedures and implementation guidelines for land Privatization and farm
restructuring based on agreed guidelines and policies;
3     Approve the annual work plan and budget for the Farm Privatization Project;
3     Advise the raion administration to implement the land privatization and farm restructuring
procedures;
3     Resolve inter-agency problems and implementation bottlenecks of the project; and
3     Approve sub-loans above US$50,000 for short and long term credit to privatized farm
units emerging from the restructuring of the state and collective farms.
Project Management Unit (PMU)
4.    This will be located at the state level at the Government Office, Baku. It will be staffed by a
Project Director, Deputy Director (privatization specialist), specialists in agronomy/farm management,
irrigation and drainage, marketing, farm information agricultural machinery, accountants, procurement,
computer, office assistants, translators/interpreters and drivers.
5.    The main responsibilities of PMU are to:
*     Prepare an annual work program and budget in coordination with the participating
agencies and raions and submit it to the Project Steering Committee for approval;
*     Coordinate training, technical assistance activities and the work of the various agencies
involved in the implementation of the project to ensure timely execution of activities;



- 45 -                                  ANNEX A-1
*     Carry out day-to-day implementation of the project;
*     Provide overall guidance and assist the project implementation units at the raion levels
in the preparation, design and implementation of the project activities; and
*     Carry out all work related to procurement, disbursement, accounts, audit, monitoring,
evaluation and reporting.
Project Implementation Units (PIUs)
6.     A PIU would be located in each of the participating raion administrator's office. It will be
headed by the raion administrator with the chief of the Agrokombinat serving as the project director. He
will be assisted by a Deputy Chief and specialists in agronomy, farm information and advisory services,
livestock, irrigation, agricultural machinery, computer systems, accountants and assistants.
7.     The main responsibilities are to:
*     Prepare and implement the approved work program of the various activities needed for
land privatization and farm restructuring in coordination with the various participating
agencies: namely, the Agrokombinat, State Irrigation Committee, State Land Committee,
Non-Governmental Organizations and Agroprombank;
*     Provide farm support services and assist the project farms to go through the land
privatization and farm restructuring process;
3     Provide support to the Non-Governmental Organization working with the community;
i     Evaluate the proposed work plans of the irrigation and drainage design institute, negotiate
with the construction unit (Azvodstroi);
3     Assist in the preparation of business plans for the privatized farm units;
3     Approve sub-loans under US$50,000 for short term and long term credit to privatized
farms emerging from the restructuring of the state and collective farms;
3     Develop and disseminate lessons learnt from the land privatization and farm restructuring
process of the project farms;
3     Provide feedback to the project management unit at the state level on land privatization
and farm restructuring process in each of the project farms; and
i     Maintain project accounts by implementing agencies.
State Land Committee
8.    This is located at Baku and has branches in all the participating raions. The project will use
existing staff at the headquarters and in each of the participating raions to carry out the activities
connected with land privatization activities.
The main responsibilities of the land registration committee are to:
*     Determine amounts of land within each farm to be privatized and area to be kept for
reserve;
*     Calculate normative shares to be used in land allocation based upon the land suitability
in consultation with agrarian reform commission;
*     Prepare draft plans of proposed land parcels to be allocated;
*     Undertake land survey of parcels that have been allocated;
*     Prepare state acts to confirm ownership to land parcel;



- 46 -                                   ANNEX A-1
*      Maintain land registration system in Baku and in each of the participating raions;
*      Approve land allocation procedure used for each farm; and
*      Resolve land dispute appeals.
State Irrigation Committee
9.     This is located in Baku and has offices in each of the participating project raions. The project
will use existing staff for carrying out all works connected with irrigation and drainage and farm access
roads.
10.   The main responsibilities are to:
*      Supervise the design and supervision of irrigation and drainage works;
*      Implement the off-farm irrigation and drainage works and farm access roads;
*      Assist in the formation of water user's association in each of the privatized farms;
*     Work with the water users association to prepare and implement on-farm irrigation and
drainage works; and
*      Ensure timely and adequate delivery of water to each of the privatized farms.
AGROPROMBANK
11.    This is located in Baku and has branches in each of the participating project raions. The project
will use existing staff at the headquarters and in each of the participating raions to carry out the credit
operations.
12.    The main responsibilities of the Agroprombank are to:
e      Act as an agent bank to channel credit to privatized farms emerging out of the land
privatization and farm restructuring process;
3      Evaluate the business plans submitted by privatized farm units for seasonal, medium and
long term credit, and process applications which meet the eligible criteria;
3      Maintain sub-loan accounts based on Internationally accepted accounting standards; and
3      Collection and repayment of credit extended to privatized units and borrowers of funds
under the project.



Implementation Schedule
1996            1997            1998      [     1999            2000            2001
ID  Task Name                                           Duration  02     103 Q4 Q1iQ2103 Q4 QllQ2lQ3 Q4 1Q1Q21032           4 Q11Q21Q3|Q41Ql|Q2lQ3lQ4
I   Project Management                                       ld
2    Steering Committee Constituted                           Od       *  9
3    Appointment of PDU Director                              Od             0/21
4    Appointment of PMU & Salyan, Xachmaz PlUs staff          5w
5     Procurement for PMU, SLC, MOA, SIC, and PlUs          19w
6     Procurement training PMU/PIU                           1 5w
7     Appoint staff for PlUs in other Raions                30w
8     Feasibility studies of Sharoor Raion farm               ld
9   Land Privatization/Registration                          1d
10    Land Registration Support Services                    250w
11    Technical Assistance for LR system                     22w                                              .
12    LRTraining (Local& Foreign)                           100w
13    Allocation of Land Parcels to Individuals             200w              ,                              I
14    Issuance of Land Titles to Individuals                240w                                                                                                 0 .3
15  Farm Restructuring Activities                             1d
16    Establish Information Units at Baku and Raions         12w
17    TA for Farm Management /Extension/Mechinary, etc       60w             i
18    Training (In-country/Foreign)                         120w             !       _i
19  Water User's Association  (WUAs)                          Od
20     Establish Central & Farm Level WUAs                  160w
21     WUAs Training                                        175w        .
22  Main Irrigation  & Drainage Works                         Od
23    SIC sign Contract with Design Institute                 9w                                                              |
24    Design and Estimates for Shafag & Jargouj farms        18w                                                                                                                17n|
25    Award contract for Shafag and Jargouj farms             9w>



Implementation Schedule
1996           1997            1998      J     1999            2000   :        2001
ID  T#k Name                                           Duration 02103 Q4 QC 02|03|Q4 01 Q2Q304010Q2|Q3|Q4101 Q2|Q310401Q02|Q3|Q4
26    I & D Rehab works on Shafag and Jargouj farms         52w
27    Design& Estimates for Gilinjili, Gulaband-Hatai farms  14w
28    Award of contract for Gilinjili, Gulaband-Hatai farms  8.8w
29    I & D Rehab works for Gilinjili, Gulaband-Hatai farms  52w                                          _
30    Design & Estimates for Sharoor, Narinanov farms        8w
31    Award of Contract for Sharoor, Narimanov farms        lOw
32    I & D Rehab works for Sharoor, Narimanov farms        45w            I                                               j
33  Credit to PnvatUzed farms                                Od
34    Technical Assistance for APB HQ/Raion Branches        25w
35    Training of HQ, Branch Staff                          55w
36    Preparation of Business plans and approval of Credit  220w                            i   -                                  -         i
37    Credit for Short-term & Med-term to Private farms    235w .
38  Community Development Program                            Od
39    Appoint NGO For community Development                4.6w
40   Training of Community Groups                           40w
41   Establishment of Business Centers                      20w
42   Preparation/Approval of Social Development Program     40w
43  ProJect Review, Monitoring & Evaluations                 Id
44   Quarterly Project Reports from GOA                    255w
45    Review of APB performance                              Od                             |*
46    Project Midtesm Review                                 Od                             j_|_                      *  101
Task                                   Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project:                              _
Date: Wed 12/18/    Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone ()



- 49 -                               ANNEX A-3
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX A-3
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Duration   j  Responsible
Project Components             Skill Areas           Months          Agency
I. Farm Privatization
Support Services
(i)  Land registration    Mapping/Cadastral            3         SLC, SLUOP
services          systems
Land Legislation/Allocation     6
Data base design/GIS            6
(ii) Farm Information   Farm management                12        MOA, and
and Advisory      Agricultural Machinery                    Department of
Services                                                    Agriculture in
Farm information and            12       raions
technology transfer
Agricultural                    6
Processing/Marketing
(iii) Water User's     Legal                           3         SIC, MOA,
Association       WUA organization                 9        Agrokombinat
(iv) Privatized Credit   Agricultural credit           6         Agroprombank
Services          appraisal
Accounting/Financial            6
systems
II. Rehabilitation of     Irrigation and drainage                   SIC, MOA,
Irrigation and Drainage    design, construction and       6         Agrokombinat
Works                     management
m. Community              Non-Governmental                30        MOA/Other
Development Program       Organization
IV. Project               Privatization                   6         PMU and PIU
Management
Accounting and Finance          6
Procurement                     6
Total                                           126



- 50 -                                 ANNEX A-3
IN-COUNTRY TRAINNG
Number        Total       Phasing by
Areas of Training              of       Duration      Project Years       Participants
Trainees    (weeks)         (weeks)
I    _I HI
1. Land Registration Systems,         20           18        6     6     6   SIC, agrarian
public information, surveying                                               reform commission
and digital mapping
2. Farm information development        25           9        3     3      3   MOA, Agrokomb-
and dissemination                                                           inat, farmers
3. Farm management, business           30           12       4     4      4   APB, MOA,
plans, credit assessment, farm                                              Agrokombinat,
mechanization                                                              farmers
4. Water User's operations, cost       50          18        5     5      6   SIC, MOA,
recovery mechanisms                                                        Agrokombinat,
farmers
5. Community Development
Needs assessment, participation     25          20        5    15    6   MOA, Raion
techniques, leadership,                                                    administration,
organization and management                                                farmers
6. Project analysis, implementation,   18          18        6     6          PMU, PIU
monitoring and evaluation                                 =     _
FOREIGN TRAINING
Total                Number of Persons
Areas of Training         No. of    Duration      by Project Year          Participants
Persons
1. Land Registration              12     4 - 6           6          6      SLC
management, database/GIS,              weeks
Study tours
2. Farm information               10      12 months       6         4      MOA, Agrokombinat,
development, mass                      each                             farmer representative
communication, extension
systems
3. WUA management, study          9      4 wks           5          4      Farmers
tours
4. Project management,            5       4 weeks         2         3      PMU, PIU
evaluation, study tours
5. Land privatization and farm    10      4 weeks         5         5      SLC, MOA
restructuring techniques
6. Project finance and accounts   5       4 weeks         2         3      PMU, PIU



- 51-                                              ANNEX A-4
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX A4
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
TYPE OF INDICATORS                             UNITS                   PROJECT  YEAR
I                   H fi       IV         V
A. FARM PRIVATIZATION INDICATORS
(a) Ownership Indicators:
(i)  Number of Land Titles issued             No.                    560        1250      3800       4500      4800
(cumulative)
(ii)  Number of individual farm units         No.                     25         145       280        340       410
established
(b) Physical Indicators (cumulative)
(i)  Irrigation and Drainage works            Km                     280        420        670        330       940
Km                     25          55        68          80       80
(a)  Inter-farm works                    Nos.                    80         220       450        580       650
- Canal rehabilitated                Km                       -         30        60          92       92
- Pipelines repaired                 Km                     25          80       120         150      150
- Water control structures
- New canals
- Subsurface drain                   Nos.                     1          3         6          10       19
Ha                   1250        2720      4440       6920      9310
(c) Organization Indicators                       Nos.                    50        150        340        510      620
(i)  Water Users' Association formed          Nos.
(ii)  Total area covered by WUAs (Ha)         Percentage to           20          35        45         80      >90
(iii) No. of farmers covered by WUA           demand
(iv) Performance of irrigation
water charges collection
B. PRIVATIZATION IMPACT INDICATORS
(a) Crop Yields: (Average of Privatized Farms)    Kgs/Ha                2000       2300      2500        2750     3000
(i)  Cotton                                   Kgs/Ha                2400       2700       3000       3250     3500
(ii)  Wheat                                   Kgs/Ha                2300       2600       2900       3200     3400
(iii) Barley                                  Kgs/Ha                1800       2500       3200       3750     4500
(iv) Com                                      Quintal/Ha             610        660        730        780       850
(v)  Forage                                   Quintal/Ha              80         104       115        128       140
(vi) Vegetables                               Quintal/Ha              80         104       115        128       140
(vii) Fruits
(b) Livestock Yields:
(i)  Milk                                     Liters/animal
- Cows                                   /year                 2500       2800       3000       3200      3500
- Buffaloes                              /year                 2000       2200       2500       2800      3000
(c) Cropping Intensity                            Percent                 65         75        90         110      125
(d) Efficiency of Irrigation:
- Conveyance Efficiency                       Losses in %             45         48         50         55      >65
- Distribution Efficiency                     In percent             tbd         tbd       tbd         tbd      tbd
- Field Application Efficiency                In percent              45         48         50         55      >65



- 52 -                                           ANNEX A-4
TYPE OF INDICATORS                            UNITS                  PROJECT  YEAR
I    II IT l   IV    v
C. SOCIAL IMPACT INDICATORS
(a) Target Group:
(i)  Total number of target population       Nos.                 3250      12600    15500       18000   20840
(ii) Average household size                  Nos.                  650       1200      2750       3200    5560
(iii) Family/per capital income              ManattUS$             tbd        tbd       tbd        tbd       tbd
D. SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
(a) Physical Environment (Saline and Waterlogged    Percent of Area    42         40         30         20     <20
Area)
(b) Financial Sustainability - (Short term) measured   Collection 56    50        65        75          80       85
as water charges collected/ budgetary
requirement
Number            8.7-8.8                                    > 8.5
(c) Land Quality Measured as Soil pH            EC                     tbd
Soil SAR/Conductivity                        Percent               tbd
Soil Organic Matter                          CM                    tbd
Water Table Depth



- 53 -                               ANNEX A-5
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX A-5
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Approx.                       Activity                            Expected            Staff
Dates                                                       Skill Requirements      Weeks
FY97    Project Launch Workshop (1/97)                                                8
- Re-inforce project objectives, privatization  - Farm privatization
guidelines, components, financing, organization  - Land registration
and implementation arrangements              - Finance
- Prepare & review a coordinated work program  - Disbursement
with the concemed agencies                   - Accounting
- Set up accounting, disbursements, procurement  - Procurement
procedures                                   - Finance and agricultural
credit
Two Supervision Missions (4/97, 6/97)           - Irrigation & drainage     20
Review of:                                      - Legal
- Annual work program                           - Farmer based institution
- Issuance land titles                          - Economics
- Irrigation and drainage design and implementation   - Procurement
- Agroprombank staff training and credit       - Accounting
arrangement, farm business plans             - Community
- Community development program                - Environment
- Procurement, accounting, disbursements
- Water Users' Associations
- Environment management
FY98    Three Supervision Missions (9/97, 1/98, 5/98)    - Finance & agricultural    30
Review of:                                        credit
- Annual work program                           - Irrigation and drainage
- Procurement, accounting, disbursements        - Procurement
- On-farm irrigation and drainage works         - Agricultural marketing
- Credit services for private farms            - Mechanization
- Environmental management                     - Environmental
management
FY99    Mid-term Review (10/98)
- Lessons leamt from privatization process and  - Privatization              8
farm restructuring                           - Finance
- Project design changes                       - Agriculture
- Revise work program                          - Environment
Two Supervision Missions (1/99, 4/99)
- Annual work programs, project design         - Finance                     8
- Procurement, accounting, disbursements       - Agriculture
- Project replicability                         - Procurement



54 -                               ANNEX A-5
Approx.                       Activity                            Expected            Staff
Dates                                                       Skill Requirements      Weeks
FY2000   Two Supervision Missions (8199, 1/2000)                                       8
- Accounting, disbursements                     - Agriculture
- Design next phase of project                  - Accounts
- Finance
- Privatization
FY2000   Project Completion Mission (6/2000)
- Preparation of Project Completion Report     - Finance                     8
- Agriculture
I Total        Number of Supervision Missions: 12      [       Staff Weeks              90



PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
Estimated       Procure-                            Bid
Component/Item                         Contract           Cost           ment          Responsible    Documents    Implementation
Type         (USS OOO)a        Method           Agency         Available           Period
CIVIL WORKS
1. Ghilinjili Farm - Barda                               S.Worksb              1014        ICB              SIC            9/15/97        1/1/98-12/31/99
2. Narimanov Farm - Lenkoran                             S.Works                158        NCB              SIC            9/15/97        11/98-12/31/99
3. Shafag Farm - Salyan                                  S.Works                822        ICB              SIC            2/15/97        311/97-12/31/97
4. Gulaband Farm - Udjar                                 S.Works               1753        ICB              SIC           10/15/97         I/l198-12/31/99
5. Yergouj Farm - Xachmaz                                S.Works                729        ICB              SIC            2/15/97        3/1/97-12/31/98
6. Rehabilitation of Offices                             S.Works                 87        Other'        PMU/PIU's         1/15/97        3/15/97-12/30/97        ' 
Sub-Total                                                              4563                                                                                
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
7. Irrigation & Drainage Design                         Consultant              161         SS'             SIC            1/15/97        1/1/97-12/31/97
C-
8. Mapping/Cadastre Systems, LandLegislation/Allocation   Consulting firm       307         SL              SLC            2/15/97       11/97-12/31/97
GIS/Data Base Design                                                                                                                                     |
9. Farm  Privatization (Land and Rural Properties)    Consulting firm           270         SL           PMU/PIU's         2/15/97       2/1/97 - 12/31/97            tO
and legal aspects                                                                                                                                                        -
10. Procurement, Accounting/Finance                   Consulting firm           239         SL           PMU/P1U's         2/15/97        3/1/97-12/31/97         '             -
11. Farm Management, Extension Services               Consulting firm           567         SL           PMU/PIU's         4/15/97         6/1/97-3/31/98
Agriculture Processing/Marketing
12. Agriculture Credit/Bariking/Accounting            Consulting firm           532         SL              APB            2/15/97        2/1/97-12/31/97
13. Development of Rural Business Centers                  NGO                  417         SL           PMU/PIU's         3/15/97        1/1/97-12/31/99
14. Project Preparation - Social Development          Consulting firm           400         SL           PMU/PIU's         3/15/97        6/1/97-12/31/96
15. Monitoring and Evaluation                        Consulting firm            235         SL           PMU/PIU's         3/15/97         l//97-12/31/99
16. Water User's Association - organization/finance  Consulting firm            242        SL            PMU/PIU's         1/15/97        2/197-12/31199 
z
Sub-Total                                                             3370                                                                                                   z
X
ICB - International Competitive Bidding; SS - Sole Source-, SL - Short List; IS - International Shopping; and NS - National Shopping.



l         ~~~~Estimated    Procure-                            Bid
Component/htem                        Contract         Cost          ment        Responsible       Documents    Implementation
Type       (US$ OOO)a    Method            Agency           Available            Period
TRAINING
Land Resistration Services
17.  Foreign Training Management                        Foreign               46       SL             PMU              2/1/97         5/1/97- 5/12/97
18.  Foreign Study Tour                                Training               86       SL             PMU              3/1/97         6/1/97- 6/22/97
19.  Long-term Foreign Training (Land Administration)  Institutes             41       SL             PMU              5/1/97         8/1197- 7/01/98
20.  Long-term Foreign Training (Cadastral System)                             41       SL            PMU              5/1/97          8/1/97- 7/01/98
21.  Foreign Training Data (Base/GIS)                                          10      SL             PMU              5/1/97          6/1/97- 12/31/97
22. Local Training Short-term (Land
Registration)                                                            20       SL             PMU              15/1/97        3/1/97-12/31/97
23.  Local Training(Public Information Process)          Local
24.  Local Training (Digital Mapping)                  Institutes              12       SL            PMU              15/1/97         3/1/97-12/31/97
20      SL             PMU              15/1/97        3/1/97-12/31/97
Proiect Management Unit
Foreian Training
25.  Project Management                                                                                                                                              O
26.  Study Tour                                         Foreign                51       SL            PMU               5/1/97        08/1/97-12/31/98
27.  Farm Privatization                                 Institutes             77       SL            PMU              4/1/97         06/1/97-06/22/98
28.  Project Finance/Accounting                                                20       SL            PMU               4/1/97        06/1/97-12/31/97
41      SL             PMU              15/1/97        08/1/97-07/31/98
In-country Trainin2
29. Project Implementation
30.  Evaluation of Project Results                       Local                 31       SL            PMU              4/1/97          7/1/97-9/30/97
nstitutes              23       SL            PMU              15/1/97         8/1/97-10/31/97
Farm Information Advisory Services
31.  In Country Training                                training              308       SL            PMU              15/1/97         2/1/97-12/31/99
32.  Foreign Training                                  Institutes             344       SL            PMU              4/1/97          2/1/97-12/31/99
33 . Water Users' Association                         Consultants             240      SL             PMU               3/1/97         6/1/97-12/31/99
34.  Community Development                            Consultants              47      SL             PMU              4/1/97          6/1/97-12/31/98
Sub-Total                                                          1,457
SIC - State Irrigation Committee, PMU - Project Management Unit at Sate Head Quarter, Bal; SLC - State Land Committee; APB - Agroprombank (as an agent bank)          z
z
m



Estimated        Procure-                             Bid
Component/Item                        Contract          Cost            ment          Responsible    Documents   Implementation
Type        (US$ OOO)a        Method            Agency          Available           Period
PRIVATIZED CREDIT SERVICES
42.  Field Level Development                            S.Works              2,139       Other2              -                         1/1/97-12/31/2001
43.  Seasonal Input                                      Other2              4,200       Other2              -                -        1/1/97-12/31/2001
44.  Medium Term Credit                                  Other2              5,000       Otber2                                         1/1/97-12/31/2001
45.  Credit line                                         Other2              1,500       Other2              -                -        1/1/97-12/31/2001
Sub-Total                                                        12,839
MISCELLANEOUS
46.  Operational Expenses                                Other'              4,602       Other'              -                -         1/1/97-12/31/2001
EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                               Goods Delivery
Dates
47.  Irrigation Equipment                                Goods                  53         IS              PMU             9/15/97      6/15/97-12/15/99
48.  Vehicles                                            Goods                 436        ICB              PMU             8/15/97      3/1/9 7- 12/31/97
49.  Computer                                            Goods                 539        ICB              PMU             2/15/97      3/1/9 7/-12/31/97
50.  Farm Information Material                           Goods                 123        IS               PMU             2/15/97      3/1/97- 12/31/98
51.  Land Registration Equip.                            Goods                 322        ICB              PMU             2/15/97      3/1/97- 8/1/97
52.  Information Dissemination Equip.                    Goods                 242        IS               PMU             2/15/97      3/1/97-12/31/97
53.  Office Furniture                                    Goods                 131         NS              PMU             2/15/97      3/1/97-8/31/97
54.  Office Equipment                                    Goods                 139        IS               PMU             2/15/97      4/1/97 -12/31/97
Sub-Total                                                         1,985
TOTAL                                                            28,816
a:       Contingencies included
b:       Small Civil Works
c:       National data is available with irrigation institute. It is cost effective if design is prepared by this institute, hence procurement through sole source.
Other':  Procurement through Price Quotations;
Other':  In case of seasonal, medium and field development credits, the package valued at US$50,000 and below will fall under NS category, any package above US$50,000  Z
and less than US$200,000 will follow IS procedure. The packages valued at US$200,000 and above will be procured under ICB procedure.
Other':  Incremental Operational Costs will be provided on a sliding scale at the rate of 80% for the I and the II year; 60% for the m and the IV year; and 40% for the V year



- 58 -                              ANNEX C
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX C
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                  (US$ million)                   Percent
and Quarter
By Quarter    |        Cumulative
1997
3rd Quarter              0.70                0.70                 4.7
4th Quarter              1.00                1.70                11.6
1998
1st Quarter              1.20                2.90                19.7
2nd Quarter              1.50                4.40                29.9
3rd Quarter              0.90                5.30                36.0
4th Quarter              0.80                6.10                41.5
1999
1st Quarter             0.80                 6.90                46.9
2nd Quarter              0.80                7.70                52.4
3rd Quarter              0.80                8.50                57.8
4th Quarter              0.80                9.30                63.3
2000
1st Quarter             0.70                10.00                68.0
2nd Quarter              0.70                10.70               72.8
3rd Quarter              0.70                11.40               77.6
4th Quarter              0.60                12.00               81.6
2001
1st Quarter             0.50                12.50                85.0
2nd Quarter              0.50                13.00               88.4
3rd Quarter              0.50                13.50               91.8
4th Quarter              0.40                13.90               94.6
2002
1st Quarter             0.40                14.30                97.3
2nd Quarter              0.40                14.70              100.0



- 59 -                                   ANNEX D
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX D
PROFILE OF PARTICIPATING FARMS
1.    The project farms are situated in the raions of Barda, Salyan, Udjar, Lenkoran, Xachmaz and
Sharur. The first five farms, agro-ecologically, fall under three major zones, i.e. Salyan, Udjar and
Barda in the Kur-Araz Zone, Lenkoran in the Talish Zone, and Xachmaz under the large Caucasus zone.
The sixth farm in Sharur raion of Nakhchivan autonomous republic, is located west of Arpa river, under
agro-ecologically dry climate in Arpa-Arakh zone. These farms are representative of the agroclimatic
zones of Azerbaijan. Only five farms i.e. Ghilingili farm of Barda, Gulaband-Hatai farm of Udjar,
Shafag farm of Salyan and Yergouz farm of Xachmaz have been appraised. The sixth farm is proposed to
be appraised in 1997.
Land Resources
2.    The total geographical area of the five appraised project farms is about 14,970 ha of which about
9900 ha is cultivable land and is dependent on irrigation (7646 ha). Detailed land resources by farm is
presented in Table 1.
Table 1: Land Resources by Farms
Farms            Total    Cultivable  Irrigated  Private Lands   Problem    Potential
..Area ha   -raAreaJha    Area ha   Area ha      AreJac. ha*   Area ha#
Ghilinjili-Barda      2913        1612       1571         49           1262       1612
Narimanov-Lenkoran     715        555        380          128          130         555
Shafag-Salyan         3739        2219       1797         83           1240       2220
Hatai/Gulaband-Udjar    3285      2180       773          42           550        2180
Yergouz-Xachmaz       4315        3265       3125         282          1575       3265
Total                 14967       9831       7646         584          4757       9832
* Water- logged, poorly irrigated or saline land; # After rehabilitation of drainage and irrigation canal systems.
3.    Rehabilitation of the for crop production is constrained by lack of sufficient and timely
irrigation, lack of farm equipment and machinery and lack of working capital. The irrigation and
drainage infrastructure is dilapidated due to neglect of the canal and drainage system maintenance
which are silted and choked, water control structures are non-functional, leading to water logging and
salinity. Excellent potential exists to enhance the crop productivity through multiple cropping and
cropping intensity provided the present irrigation, drainage and other infrastructure are rehabilitated.



- 60 -                                       ANNEX D
Table 2: Demographic and Employment Characteristics of Project Farms
Barda          Udjar          Lenkoran   Xachmaz    Salyan
Items          Ghilinjili  Gulaband   Hatai   Nariinanov   Yergouz    Shafag       Total
Demographic Structure
Age groups
< 5             238        154       140        589         995        386        2502
6 - 15    -      255        258       249        988         1884       782         16
16- 30            324        456       185        962        2023        600        4550
31 - 45           217        182       179        810        2057        605        4050
46 - 60           115        134       161        470        1740        573        3193
61- 65            61         107       116       209         514         136        1143
66 - 70           40         68        80         201         126        100        615
> 70             40         46        60         102         54         68         370
Total Population     1292       1405      1170       4331        9393       3250       20841
Total Households          265       574        486       677         1280        647        3929
Employment
Employed (Female)         329        75        70        505         316         330        1625
Employed (male)           314        80        38        280         335         252        1299
Total Employed        543        155       108       785         651         582        2824
Unemployed Female         34         57        179        na         1925        604       2799
Unemployed Male           22         37        55         na         1960        210       2284
Total Unemployed          56         94        234        na         3885        814       5083
Pensioners Female         71         135       140       310         351         164        1171
Pensioners Male           70         86        116       202         343         140        957
Total Pensioners      141        221       156        512        694         304        2028
Farn Employees
Managers                   3          1         1          1          1           1          8
Specialists               19         7         7          20          20         25         98
Machine Operators         62         16        11         76          41         64         270
Workers                  405         119       77        668         569        423        2261
Others                    54         12        11         20          20         69         186
Total Employees       543        155       107       785         651         582        2823



- 61-                                        ANNEX D
Table 3: Status of Privatization by Farm
Farms           Ghilinjili   Gulaband     Hatai   Narimnanov   Yergouz       Shafag
Barda       Udjar       Udjar    Lenkoran   Xachmaz         Salyan
1   Local Commission         Yes          yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes
Established
2   Inventory Of Land        Yes          Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes
Done
3   List Of Eligible          Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes
Persons Done
4   Size Of Land (Ha Per      1.3         1.6          1.5        0.4      0.25/0.33       1.2
Person)
5   Age Limit For Eligible    18           14          14          14     No age limit     14
Land To Distribute
6   Localization Of Land   Approx.      Approx.    Approx.    Approx.       Not yet     Approx.
Parcel Known
7   Criteria For Livestock    Family     Family      Family    Undivided     Family    Undecided
Subdivision
8   Management Of
(i) Inputs &           Private      Private     Private   Centralized    Private    Centralized
(ii) Machinery          Service     Service    Collection  Undecided    Service    Undecided
9   Commitment Of Farm      Strong       Strong      Strong       Fair       Strong       Fair
Management Towards
Privatization
10  Involvement Of Local   Supportive   Supportive   Supportive  Centralized  Supportive  Fair
Leaders Towards
Privatization
11  Information Of          Scarce        Fair        Weak       Scarce       High        Weak
Farmers About
Privatization
12  Collective Farms          18           6            8          22          10         None
Established
13  Base Of Collective      Brigades    Brigades    Brigades  Centralized   Families    Brigades
Farms
14  Other Forms Of Land    Leasing       Leasing     Leasing    Leasing      Leasing     Leasing
Use
Farm Characteristics:
4.     All farms are well endowed with natural resources and can sustain the rural population.
However, there is a large (more than required) number of labor force who have been working in the
farm for many years (Table 2).



-62 -                                   ANNEX D
5.    The representative farms have been chosen by the Government because: (i) they are
representative of the major agro-ecological systems and have different cropping patterns; (ii) the farms
sizes are typical for the region concerned; (iii) they include different socio-economic groups; (iv) the
new owner's wish to follow different methods of farm re-restructuring; and (v) farm and raion
administration are committed to privatize and restructure the farm operations:
Agro-Ecological Characteristics: The main agroclimatic characteristics of the project farms are
described below:
*    Chilinjili-Barda has an annual average rainfall of 329 mm and annual average temperature of
14C. The monthly average maximum and minimum rangesbetween 26.2C and 2. 1C. The
region is hot, semi-dry lowland and crops like cotton, wheat, vegetables, fodder, grapes and
sub-tropical fruits trees are grown.
*    Narimanov-Lenkoran is situated in the south east, on the coastal plains between the foothills of
the Talish mountains and the coast of the Caspian Sea. It is characterized by an annual average
rain fall of 1402 mm and fertile soils suitable for the production of sub-tropical fruits,
vegetables and rice. An all-year round growing season necessitates irrigation, mainly to cover
dry summer months.
*    Shafag-Salyan, on the road from Baku to Lenkoran is characterized by a half dry and hot, with
low wind velocities up to 3 m/s. The average annual rainfall is 283 mm and the temperature
ranges from 2.5C to 26.2C. The major crops grown in this area are cotton and wheat.
*    Gulaband/Hatai-Udjar lies in the lowland plains of the Kur-Araz zone, temperatures soar up
to 41C with low averages of only 14C, dropping to below freezing point during winters.
The average precipitation ranges from 200 to 400 mm.
*    Yergouz-Xachmaz is located in the zone of the Big Caucasus and borders Russia in the north.
Its climate is moderately warm with annual precipitation of 334 mm. Suitable crops for the area
are: wheat, maize, tobacco, grapes, sunflower, rice, vegetables and deciduous fruits.
*    Sharur-Sharur raion is located west of Arpa river in Nakhachivan Autonomous Republic of
Azerbaijan. The total geographical area of the farm is 2027 ha of which 1222 ha is annually
cropped, 54 ha is under grape orchard and 92 ha is covered by fruit trees. Main crops are
cereal grains, tobacco, vegetables, and fruit crops like grapes, apple and pear. The average
annual precipitation is around 300 mm and the agriculture is irrigation based.
Cropping Systems
6.    These farms have fertile agricultural land that have considerable potential for growth in
agricultural productivity. develop economic potential and ensure sustained growth. Yet, during the
last few years, production levels in these farms have declined sharply. Low relative humidity and high
sunshine hours during crop growing season create a very favorable environment for crop growth, with
relatively low incidence of pests and diseases. The cropping pattern of the farns covered under the
project is presented in Table 4.



- 63 -                                   ANNEX D
Present Yield Levels of the Farms
7.     Present yield levels of all crops grown on the project farms are relatively low for various
reasons. Under the former Soviet Union, and Azerbaijan was no exception, the State and collective
farns were rewarded on the basis of performance to State directed production orders, and not for their
productivity. The system did not, allow for incentives to raise productivity. Moreover, there was no
incentives: salaries of the farm workers were, with minor variations, fixed and private efforts simply
did not pay off. Crop yields of cereals, fruits and vegetables in these farms are about 50 -100 percent
below the potential. With privatization and restructuring, these farms would now seek to grow and
produce those crops and livestock activities for which there is a comparative advantage and respond to
market forces.
8.    There is ample scope to improve present crop yield levels. A reasonably secure and registered
land rights; improved information and advisory services, favourable relative agricultural input and
output prices, credit to provide for seasonal working capital, longer term finance for essential farm
equipment, land levelling and rehabilitation of irrigation systems to provide reliable water supply to
farms will provide a favourable conditions for increased crop productivity and farm incomes.
Table 4: Cropping Pattern of Project Farms
Crop         Lenkoran    Salyan    Xachmaz       Udjar        Barda      Total Ha
Narimanov    Shafag    Yergouz    Gulaband       Ghilin,i,_;1;
Cotton                          800          -          120          796        1716
Wheat                 -         650        800         450           230        2130
Barley               130          -        286           -            -          416
Maize                70           -         54          60           85          269
Fodder               48         650        750          170          146        1764
Vegetables           271          -         70          5             5          351
Fruits Orchards       -                    1305         6             -         1311
Tea                  136                     -                                   136
Mulberry for Silk           -                -          100                      100
655        23265                  911          1262        893
Source: Pilot Farm managers and MOA
The complete liberalization of fruit, vegetable and livestock products and all agricultural inputs, increase
in prices of wheat and cotton, and prevalence of a stable exchange rate regime provides ample scope to
increase the per hectare returns of the major crops of the project farms. With privatization, changes in the
present cropping pattern are expected to occur which will involve an intensification of cotton, wheat,
fruits and vegetables, introduction of maize, increase in perenmial forage legumes. Increases in crop yields
of about 15-30 percent can be achieved through replacement of mono-cropping with double cropping
systems, specifically, introducing short duration high value vegetable crops preceding the main winter
wheat, replacement of F2 poor quality corn seeds with quality hybrid Fl seeds and use of high quality



-64-                                     ANNEXJD
cotton seeds. Given the competitive market prices, farm incomes are expected to rise substantially by the
end of project period. Improved technology practices combined with the efficiency expected from an
"owner operated farm enterprise" is expected to increase the overall farm profitability and farm incomes.
The crop yields with and without project scenario is summarized in Table 5.
Table 5: Crop Yields With and Without Project
Crop                     Without Project         With Project Yield Kg/Ha
Cotton                                     1,800                       3,000
Wheat                                      2100                        3,600
Barley                                     2,000                       3,500
Com                                        2,100                       4,500
Sorghum                                    400                         3,000
Fodder (Forage)                           55,000                      85,000
Apple                                      8,000                       14,000
Vegetables                                 8,000                       14,000
Livestock Production
9.    The average national livestock herd consists of 60 percent local breed and 40 percent imported
strains. There is a tendency to change from cattle to water buffalo in the private farms because of their their
efficient conversion rates from natural grasses to meat, resistance to diseases and greater reproduction
capacity, will result in higher incomes. Although s-'ne buffalo meat is sold at local markets, they are not
being used for draught purposes. A typical family owns 4 cows/buffalo and 4 sheep, which could
considerably higher when the workers are being paid in kind (livestock) instead of wages. The condition of
the livestock herds in Lenkoran and Salyan are relatively good in comparison with the ones in Xachmaz,
Udjar and Barda.



- 65 -                              ANNEX E
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX E
PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This report is prepared as a part of the environmental program of the Farm Privatization Project
in preparation to meet the environmental assessment requirements of Azerbaijan Government and the
World Bank. The Bank rules require that an Environmental Analysis (EA) is done prior to the
implementation of the Farm Privatization Project. EA is a process by which environmental impacts,
alternatives, and costs associated with development programs or investment programs are identified,
analyzed and evaluated. On the basis of this analysis, monitoring and mitigation measures are proposed
for incorporation into the design of the project programs and components, allowing required time to make
design changes and to explore environmentally cost effective alternatives. The project was presented to
Ministry of agriculture and referred to an expert team consisting of Dr. Assaf Assadov, Advisor in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Mr. Nadim Kazibekov, Deputy Chairman of State Irrigation Committee;
Mr. Akif Veliyev of Land Committee and Mr. Arif Mansurov of State Committee for Ecology and
Natural Resources Utilization Control.
2.    The team examined the project documentation to identify the potential impacts (positive or
negative) of the Farm Privatization Project on environmental issues with the following in view:
(i)    To assess the actual environmental situation, before Farm  Privatization Project
implementation, and to identify potential direct and indirect impacts on the environment;
(ii)   To review the existing legislations as it relates to ensure sustainability of agriculture
production and the safe use and handling of pesticides, agrochemicals, and plant
fertilizers and guide the Ministry of Agriculture to develop environmental "best practice"
guidelines for the advising the farmers through extension personnel of FDUs.
3.    The Operational Directive 4.01 of the World Bank requires that project options under
consideration for Bank financing are environmentally sound and sustainable. The EA evaluates a
project's environmental impacts in its area of influence and identifies ways of improving project design
and implementation by preventing, minimizing, or compensating for adverse environmental impacts and
enhancing positive impacts.
4.    According to World Bank regulations the Farm Privatization Project is placed into EA category
"B" which means that it has a limited impact on the environment. The project is expected to foster more
prudent use of land, particularly agricultural land and environmentally sustainable farming practices with
greater sense of individual and community responsibility for the environment. The rehabilitation and
improvement of irrigation and drainage system is expected to help improve water use efficiency, check
the process of salinization and water logging, arrest the process of land degradation. The project
activities to be implemented have a great importance for the promotion and recognition of ecologically
sustainable management the national resources of Azerbaijan.



- 66 -                                ANNEX E
5.    It is realistic to expect that the effects of some project components will strengthen the national
sustainable agriculture which combines technologies, policies, and activities aimed at integrating
socioeconomic principles with environmental concerns so as to maintain or enhance farm production,
reduce the risk of diminishing productivity, protect natural resources and prevent degradation of soil
fertility and water quality, all with a view to be economically viable, socially acceptable and technically
feasible. Hence it could be safely concluded that in implementing this Farm Privatization Project, no
negative impacts are expected.
6.     Since no direct negative environmental impacts are anticipated in the context of implementing
farm privatization project, this EA does not propose a specific mitigation plan (nor does it cost mitigation
efforts). However, as a an abundant caution against possible future intensive agriculture practices and
likely use of excessive agricultural chemicals and pesticides MOA would need to develop special ("best
practices") guidelines for the extension personnel to advise farming community in support of the concept
and practices of sustainable agriculture and appropriate handling of agriculture chemicals including the
hazardous pesticides.
7.     A major contribution to the development of the best practice guidelines is expected from the
findings of the National Environmental Action Plan (NAEP) collaborative study with the Government of
Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan Government has positively responded to the stipulation of the International
Development Association (IDA) to undertake a comprehensive environmental sector study. This study
will be the first input into the NAEP, which is conceived as an interactive strategy requiring periodic
updating. Considering the importance of the Azerbaijan's natural resources for economic growth, the
Bank has particularly targeted the agricultural sector for assistance under NAEP. The Joint NAEP team
is expected to contribute to the Government's overall development strategy by: (a) focussing the use of
scarce resources on immediate priority needs; (b) supporting institutional and regulatory improvements
over the near to medium-term; and (c) designing high priority investments and technical assistance for
funding from domestic and donor sources.
Status of Environmental Legislation
8.    The Law of Azerbaijan Republic "On Nature and Natural Resource Utilization" adopted in 1992
provides the broad legal base for State Committee for Ecology and Natural Resources Utilization
(SCE&NRU) to review any investment projects in the state. Environmental legislation in Azerbaijan
Republic is not yet formed as uniform and systematic body. Azerbaijan has no previous experience in
conducting either project-specific or sectoral EA for agricultural development, including irrigation and
drainage management. At present, the FSU environmental, design and construction standards are being
used in the country.
9.     The environmental concerns are addressed in Azerbaijan as follows: First, "Otsenka
Voshzdeistviya na Okrujajushuiu Sredu" (OVOS), which is Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), done
usually by the project proponent, and second, "Gosudarstvennaya Ecologicheskaya Expertise" which is
State Ecological Expertise (SEE), which is mandatory for all investment projects, and constitute a process
of state review of the project's design together with the EIA. The SEE is required under the law "On
Environmental Protection", while the EIA process is instituted through a number of instructions and
guidelines issued by the SEC & NRU.



- 67 -                                ANNEX E
Project Approach to Address Environmental Concerns
10.   There is a division for environmental analysis and management within the Ministry of
Agriculture. Besides this, the PMU will get assistance of the SCE & NRU for implementation,
coordination and enforcement of EIA in the project area through EIA/SEE legislation, procedures and
guidelines. The SCE & NRU fills in the gaps by issuing directives, the applicability and validity. There
are shortcomings of the existing situation, clear rules as well as institutional capacity in the sector for
environmental monitoring and management, including development of "best environmental practices"
for agricultural sector, require improvement.
11.   The project PMU will secure the services of SCE & NRU for: (i) development and introduction
of environmental "best practices" procedures, guidelines and manuals for the safe use and handling of
pesticides, agrochemicals, and plant fertilizers (as recommended by FAO and adopted elsewhere in
foreign countries) to enable the Ministry of Agriculture for the advising the farmers through extension
staff; (ii) develop techniques for the safe use of irrigation waters and drainage disposals; (iii) assist the
MOA to build-up its internal environmental institutional capacity to implement adoption of such
recommended practices; (iv) establish and strengthen procedural arrangements for implementation of EA
through EIA/SEE; and (v) work out procedures for cross-sectoral coordination of implementation and
enforcement of EIA and SEE requirements.
12.   This project has been classified into EA Category "B" which requires an environmental analysis,
even though potential adverse environmental impacts are not visualized, and no component would
significantly affect human populations or environmentally important areas and its activities are limited
to rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage systems and improvement of their operation, and
mitigatory measures can be easily designed during implementation.
13.   The project will thus develop and expand the professional skills and capacities of the staff
involved in implementing the project through training. Participants in the training program will include:
(i) head quarter and field staff from irrigation committee, agriculture, state land committee, and farmers.
The training will comprise: (a) one annual course of one week duration with a purpose to upgrade
existing knowledge and to introduce new concepts about environmentally sustainable agriculture,
including irrigation and drainage; (b) short courses, seminars, and study tours to be offered by national
institutions; (c) a series of one-day seminars on various aspects of environmental management,
monitoring, EIAs, water management, maintenance, problem solving, etc.; (d) field days for farmers.
These would promote modern on-farm irrigation and drainage technologies and increase farmers
awareness of environmentally sustainable good water and best farm and land management practices. Field
days will be organized by the RIUs. Maximum use will be made of the international experiences and
lessons learnt elsewhere on environmental management in similar projects, EIA and other relevant manu-
als.
14.   The project would support the incremental operational costs. Government's commitment is sought
for allocation of necessary budget that will be made available to the Department of Agriculture and State
Committee for Ecology and Natural Resource Utilization for meeting such needs. A review of the
Government program which addresses the enviromnental concerns of the project would be made during
project implementation by IDA/IFAD missions. The Participating Commercial Bank will follow the
Environmental Assessment Procedures as suggested in the note enclosed to this report.



- 68 -                               ANNEX E
II. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
15.   This note is intended to provide guidelines to the participating commercial banks (PCBs) in
reviewing and appraising credits/loans so that the project can be implemented in an environmentally sound
manner. The procedures and requirements described herein are designed specifically for implementation
by the PCBs and are independent but parallel to the Azerbaijan Republic's regulatory requirements for
Environmental Review. Environmental screening will be carried out by the PCBs at an early stage in
their credit review procedures and may require the contracting of external expertise or the hiring of
permanent environmental staff. Following screenings will be recommended for identifying the type of
environmental analysis that will be required. A list of example sub-projects which may fall under each
defined category is given in Para 18.
Screening Categories
16.   Sub-project screening categories are defined as follows, with examples of sub-projects likely to
be included under each category listed in para 18. The sub-project screening process will be carried out
by the PCBs environmental expert(s).
*     Category I (low risk): These would include sub-projects whose environmental impacts are
expected to be negligible, for which no environmental evaluation would be required. There may
be opportunities here to incorporate environmental measures which would enhance the sub-project
through minor (low-cost) modifications in the design without reducing efficiency.
*     Category II (intermediate risk): These would include sub-projects with impacts that can be
readily identified and standard preventive and/or remedial measures can be prescribed without
a full EA. This category also includes projects which may have immediate levels of regular and
accidental emissions (see Para 18). A limited EA would be recommended in these cases which
may simply require specifying well-defined mitigating measures and adopting accepted operating
practices. An environmental assessment would follow a simplified outline of that presented
herein with relevant sections pertaining to an area outside the potential impact of the sub-project
omitted (to be determined by the environmental specialist).
*     Category III (high risk): These would include sub-projects which may have highly significant,
negative and/or long-term environmental impacts, the magnitude of which are difficult to
determine at the project identification stage. A full environmental assessment (EA) would be
prepared by the sub-borrower in parallel with the techno-economic feasibility study of the sub-
project.
*     Category IV: Projects which would include the production or use of these materials ( Para 18)
are normally not financed by international financial institutions.
17.   During project implementation, IDA/IFAD missions will supervise the overall screening process
and implementation of environmental recommendations for selected projects. The supervision team will
also review, ad-hoc, environmental documentation. Therefore, all this documentation should be kept on
file with PCBs and forwarded to the PMU as needed.



- 69 -                                ANNEX E
Environmental Assessment Categories for lending by Participating Commercial Banks
18.   The following examples of sub-projects and their suggested categorization are indicative only and
will need to be reviewed throughout Project Implementation to assess their appropriateness concerning
the types of sub-projects which are actually submitted to the participating commercial banks (PCBs). As
it would be impossible for this list to be exhaustive, sub-projects which cannot be identified as belonging
to one of the categories below should be brought to the attention of the Borrower to transmit to the World
Bank for further guidance.
Category I Projects (Low Risk)
*     Small scale food production; software manufacturing
Category II Projects (Intermediate Risk)
*     Establishment, stocking of retail shops; Establishment and stocking of retail kiosks
*     Purchase of fleet vans, motorcycles, tractors and related spares and equipment for business use
*     Formulation and repackaging of fertilizers(Does not include manufacturing of fertilizers)
*     Formulation and repackaging of basic Agricultural chemicals (inorganic salts, alcohols)
*     Manufacture of plastic products (not of plastics themselves) from PVC, HDPE, LDPE
*     Livestock industries (dairy and poultry); Meat and poultry industries (abattoirs and processing)
i     Fruit and vegetable processing, preserving and canning; Fish processing, preserving and canning,
Vegetable/animal oil production and processing
e     Manufacture of wines and other fermented beverages
i     Purchase of irrigation equipment, Small scale crop spraying; Purchase of agricultural inputs by
individual farms
Machinery, Equipment, Textile and Leather Products, Pulp, Paper Products, Timber and Wood
Products
e     Manufacture, assembly and repair of engines and machinery
3     Manufacture, assembly and repair of electrical equipment except refrigeration and air conditioning
units and oil-cooled transformers and capacitors
*     Spinning, weaving and finishing of natural and synthetic fibers
*     Manufacture of textile goods, leather products and clothing (except where tanning or dyeing
involved)
*     Processing of pulp to paper and board, Manufacture of paper and board products
*     Sawmilling, manufacture of veneer, plywood other wood-based materials and Carpentry;
*     Treating and preserving wood, Manufacture of wood products (carving, crafting, cooperate)
*     Repair and maintenance shops and garages, assembly of vehicle parts and bodies including tractor
trailers
*     Import/export of food, horticultural products and agricultural crops, Food Production



- 70 -                              ANNEX E
Category III Projects (High Risk)
*     Sub-projects related to existing or proposed storage capacity for hazardous chemical substances
including Storage, formulation and packaging of pesticides and herbicides.
*     Servicing and repair of appliances and equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)
*     Manufacture and formulation of pesticides products
*     Manufacture of fuel briquettes and packaged fuel from purchased coal or lignite
*     Tanning and dyeing of hides
*     Establishment and rehabilitation of petrol filling and services stations
*     Projects involving land acquisition
Category IV (Projects which should not be financed)
*     Tobacco production or tobacco products
*     Trade in wildlife and wildlife products prohibited under the CITES convention
*     Release of genetically altered organisms into the natural environment
*     Manufacturing, distribution and sale of banned pesticides and herbicides
*     Drift seine netting in the marine environment
*     Radioactive products
*     Manufacturing of equipment and appliances containing CFCs, halons and other substances
regulated under the Montreal Protocol
-     Manufacturing of electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs) and
*     Manufacturing of asbestos-containing products



- 71-                                 ANNEX F
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX F
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Crop budgets for the major crops and livestock activities.were developed to evaluate financial and
economic viability. The main crops analyzed were winter wheat, barley, cotton, corn for grain, forage
crop, fruits (apples), eggplant and onions. The analysis was carried out under two cases; first using the
current input-output technical coefficients and productivity levels - representing the "Without Project
Situation" and second; under improved technological practices with improved input-output relationships
and higher productivity levels - representing the "With Project Situation". The current market prices
for all inputs and outputs were used to evaluate financial viability in both the cases.
(i)    Without Project Situation: The first case reflects the present status of crop profitability.
It shows that the gross margins of the cereal crops, even though positive, are not
significant enough to justify new investments unless their operations are restructured and
productivity increases are obtained. The gross margins per hectare for wheat, barley,
corn for grain and forage crops are in a range between US$47 to US$146 per hectare.
Cotton returns are about US$263 per hectare. Vegetables provide the maximum margins
of over US$3500 per hectare. The low margins of cereal crops are due to low input use,
obsolete technological practices and distortions in relative input-output prices.
Productivity, in terms of yields per hectare is low, especially given the high potential of
increasing the yields by 50 to 100 percent for most of the crops. In the case of dairy
operations, the gross margins are US$153 per cow. This low return is due to poor
quality feed - which is low in protein, lack of vitamins, poor livestock management and
low hygienic standards;
(ii)    With Project Situation:  The second case analyzes the returns under improved
conditions, with better and timely use of inputs, more efficient use of water resources
(implied through water charges and formation of water users association), lower
harvesting and transport losses and better quality products. Under this likely scenario,
which is possible under a privatized system of farm operations, the gross margins per
hectare for all the cereal crops are found to increase from 100 to 300 percent and by
about 75 percent in the case of fruits and vegetables. Higher productivity and increase
in gross returns of more than 400 percent could be achieved in dairy operations through
investments in improved feeds, timely veterinary services and better management; and
(iii)   Economic Analysis: The following were the main assumptions used:
(a)    Tradeable outputs. All tradable goods, such as fertilizers, chemicals and other
imported inputs have been priced at import parity ex-farm gate prices. These
have been derived from the prevailing and projected world market prices (World
Bank projections). In the case of fuel and energy, since Azerbaijan is a producer
and exporter, the export parity prices have been used. In the case of tradeable
outputs, such as wheat and maize, import parity prices have been used and export
parity prices in the case of cotton have been used. These prices have been
presented in Table 3. All calculations have been carried out in constant 1996



- 72 -                                ANNEX F
US$ using the G-5 manufacturing unit value indices for conversion from current
price projections to constant 1996 values. Appreciation of the manat vis-a-vis the
dollar has been assumed in line with the projections made by the World Bank;
and
(b)    The policy reforms being pursued by the Govermnent are expected to restore the
incentive structure in agriculture, thereby having a positive impact on agricultural
productivity. The rate of increase in crop yields, however, is expected to be
slow as compared to the with project situation; full development, without the
project is expected to occur in year 15 as compared to year 5 with the project.
The difference is accounted for by the slower process of privatization and
ownership and slower development of post privatization assistance. The period
of analysis is for fifteen years of project operation.
2.    3 Ha Crop and Dairy Farm Model. The above assumptions have been used in the financial and
economic analysis of a 3 ha crop and diary farm model which is presented in Table 4.



Farm Privatization Project
Table 1. CROP BUDGET
Winter Wheat               Bleyi                    Cto                      CoM                  Foraae Crop
Units  Price  Unit   Value   Price   Units   Value    Price  Units  Value   Price   Units  Value    Price  Units  Value
With oUt .QeIt               US             Us$   Us$                 UsS    Us$              US$    US$              Us    Us s               US S
A. BnftS
1. Main Produce     Kg        0.09   2100  189.00    0.09    2000    180.00    0.26   1800   468.00    0.09    1200  108.00   0.004  55000   220.00
2. ByProduct        Kg        0.01   1100   11.00    0.01    1100      11.00    0.1    25      2.50    0.02    1100   22.00
Total Benefits                              200.00                    191.00                 470.50                   130.00                  220.00
B. Varlable Costs
(i) Seeds           Kg         0.12    210   25.20    0.12     180     21.60    0.38     85    32.30    0.38      35   13.30    0.09    180    16.20
(ii) Fertilizers
(a) Urea           Kg        0.26      0    0.00    0.26        0      0.00    0.26     0     0.00    0.26      50   13.00    0.26    100   26.00
(b) ASP            Kg        0.26    100   26.00    0.26      100     26.00    0.26    50    13.00    0.26      50   13.00    0.26      50    13.00
(c) TSP            Kg        0.21    100   20.60    0.21      50      10.50    0.21    100    20.76    0.21     50   10.50    0.21      50    10.50
(d) Potash         Kg        0.18      0    0.00    0.18       0       0.00    0.18     0     0.00    0.18       0    0.00    0.18       0     0.00
(e) Complex fert   Kg        0.26     50   13.00    0.26       0       0.00    0.26    50    13.00    0.26       0    0.00    0.26       0    0.00
Sub-total fertilizer                  250    59.6                       23.5                  46.76                    36.50                   49.50
(iii) Micronutrients  Kg      0.32     2.5    0.8   0.32         0        0    0.32      5      1.60    0.32      5    1.60    0.32       0        0
(iv) Manures       Kg           1       5       5    1.00       5         5      1      10    10.00    1.00       5    5.00     1.00      5       5
(v) Herbicides     Kg         1.8      0       0    1.80        0        0     1.8      2     3.60    1.80       0    0.00    1.80       0        0
(vi) Plant protection  Lt       1.2      1      1.2   1.20        1       1.2    1.2    14    16.80    1.20        4    4.80      1.20     1      1.2
(viii) fuel & Lubricant    Kg  0.14     80    11.2   0.14        40       5.6   0.14    210    29.40    0.14     120   16.80    0.14      60      8.4
(viii) Labour        Manday   0.28      42   11.76    0.28       22      6.16    0.28    240    67.20    0.28     18    5.04    0.28      38    10.64
Total variable Costs                         115.58                     45.10                 207.66                    83.04                   90.94
C. Variable Costs/ton of produce              55.04                     22.55                 115.36                    69.20                    1.65
D. Gross Margins                              84.42                    148.90                 262.84                    46.96                  129.06      
Wdeh ProirAt (ttL
A. Benefits
1. Main Produce     Kg        0.09   3600  324.00    0.09    3000    270.00    0.26   3000   780.00    0.09    4500  405.00   0.004  85000   340.00
2. By Product       Kg        0.01   1500   15.00    0.01    1600      16.00    0.10    30     3.00    0.02    1600   32.00
Total Benefits                              339.00                    286.00                 783.00                   437.00                  340.00
B. Variable Costs
(i) Seeds           Kg         0.15    160   24.00    0.16     160     25.60    1.60     50    80.00    1.50      25   37.50    0.16    160   25.60
(ii) Fertilizers
(a) Urea           Kg        0.26    100   26.00    0.26      100     26.00    0.26    100    26.00    0.26    150   39.00    0.26    100   26.00
(b) ASP            Kg        0.26     50   13.00    0.26       50     13.00    0.26    50    13.00    0.26     100   26.00    0.26      50    13.00
(c) TSP            Kg        0.21    100   20.76    0.21      50      10.50    0.21    150    31.50    0.21    150   31.50    0.21      50    10.50
(d) Potash         Kg        0.18     50    9.00    0.18      25       4.50    0.18    100    18.00    0.18    100   18.00    0.18      50     9.00
(e) Complex fert   Kg        0.26    100   26.00    0.26       0       0.00    0.26    150    39.00    0.26     50   13.00    0.26       0    0.00
Sub-total fertilizer                         94.76                     54.00                 127.50                   127.50                   58.50
(iii) Micronutrients  Kg       0.5      5    2.50     0.5       5       2.50    0.50    10     5.00    0.50      10    5.00      0.5      2     1.00
(iv) Manures       Kg           1       5    5.00      1        5      5.00    1.00     10    10.00    1.00      10   10.00       1       5     5.00
(v) Herbicides     Kg           2      4    8.00       2       4       8.00    1.80     4     7.20    1.80       4    7.20        2      1    2.00
(vi) Plant protection  Lt         2      2    4.00       2        2      4.00    2.40    15   36.00    2.40       15   36.00        2      1    2.00            Z
(viii) fuel & Lubricant    Kg  0.14     76   10.64    0.14       32      4.48    0.14    210    29.40    0.14    120   16.80    0.14      60     8.40           Z
(viii) Labour        Manday   0.28      32    8.96    0.28       18      5.04    0.28    180    50.40    0.28     24    6.72    0.28      42    11.76           p
Total variable Costs                         157.86                    108.62                  345.50                  246.72                  112.26           t
C. Variable Costs/ton of produce              43.86                     36.21                 115.17                    54.83                    1.32
D. Gross Margins                             181.14                    177.38                 437.50                   190.28                  227.74
Notes: (@)ImprOvements resultng from the projet based upon (i) improved infgatlon and drainage; (1i increased effidency through adoptton of betterproducton technologya nd (h? mrduchon of co losses,
and higher crop yields, especially com would rcsuft from use of imptoved technology and Hybrtd varety of seeds



Farm Privatization Project
Table 2. CROP BUDGET
Fruits (Applesr              Eggplant                   Onions                              Dairy Production
Units  Price  Units   Value    Price   Units   Value    Price   Units        Value                       Units   Price   Units   Value
Wi out ProJect             US S            US     US S                  US S   USS                 USS                                  USS             USS
A. Benefits
1. Main Produce   Kg        0.12   8000    960.00     0.5    8000   4000.00      0.6   8000    4800.00 1. Milk             Kg           0.8   1800    1440
Total Benefits                              960.00                   4000.00                    4800.00 2. Culcows         Animal        50    0.25    12.5
B. Variable Costs                                                                                        3. Fatsteer        Animal        45    0.98    44.1
(i) Seeds          Kg        0.09    180     16.20    4.00      0.5      2.00    1.00     40       40.00 4.Surplus Heifers    Animal     50    0.39    19.5
(ii) Fertilizers                                                                                         5. Manure         Mt             1        5       5
(a) Urea         Kg        0.26    200      52.00    0.26     400    104.00    0.26     450     117.00 Sub-total                                     1521.1
(b)ASP           Kg        0.26    150      39.00    0.26     350     91.00    0.26     450     117.00
(c) TSP          Kg        0.21    300      63.00    0.21      50     10.50    0.21     350      73.50
(d) Potash       Kg        0.18    100      18.00    0.18     250     45.00    0.18     360      64.80 B. Operating costs
(e) Complex fert   Kg      0.26      0       0.00    0.26       0      0.00    0.26     360      93.60 (i) Feed(con) Cows  Kg         0.25    1500     375
Sub-total fertilizer                        172.00                    250.50                     465.90 (ii) Feed(con) Calves Kg       0.26    1200     312
(iii) Micronutrents   Kg    0.32     10        3.2   0.32       10      3.20    0.32      25       8.00 (iii) Fodder       Mt            60      10    600
(iv) Manures      Kg        1.00     15        15    1.00      50      50.00    1.00     100     100.00 (iv) Insemination  Lumpsum                1       1
(v) Herbicides   Kg        1.80      0         0    1.80        5      9.00    1.80      10      18.00 (v) Veterinary Expens Lumpsum            25      25
(vi0 Plantprotection   Li    1.20      2        2.4   1.20        5      6.00    1.20      10      12.00 (vi)Water          Lumpsum               14      14
(viii) fuel & Lubricant   Kg  0.14    120      16.8   0.14      180     25.20    0.14     210      29.40 (viii) Equipment 0 &  Lumpsum            41      41
(viii) Labour      Manday   0.28    180        50.4   0.28      250     70.00    0.28     300      84.00
Total variable Costs                         276.00                    406.90                     739.30 Total operating Costs                          1368
C. Variable Costs /ton of produce             34.50                     50.86                      92.41                                            _
D. Gross Margins                             684.00                   3593.10                    4060.70 D. Gross Margins                               153.1
With ProJct (L
A. Benefits
1. Main Produce   Kg        0.12  14000   1680.00     0.5   14000   7000.00      0.6  12000    7200.00 1. Milk             Kg           0.8   3200    2560
Total Benefits                             1680.00                   7000.00                    7200.00 2. Culcows         Animal        50    0.25    12.5
B. Variable Costs                                                                                        3. Fatsteer        Animal        45    0.45   20.25
(i) Seeds          Kg        0.50    180     90.00   10.00      0.4      4.00    3.00     30       90.00 4.Surplus Heifers    Animal     50    0.45    22.5
(ii) Fertilizers                                                                                         S. Manure          Mt            1        5       5
(a) Urea         Kg        0.26    300      78.00    0.26     600    156.00    0.26     450     117.00 Sub-total                                    2620.25
(b) ASP          Kg        0.26    210      54.60    0.26     400    104.00    0.26     450     117.00 B. Operating costs
(c) TSP          Kg        0.21    300      63.00    0.21     350     73.50    0.21     350      73.50 (i) Feed(con) cows   Kg        0.25    2500     625
(d) Potash       Kg        0.18    180      32.40    0.18     450     81.00    0.18     350      63.00 (ii) Feed(con)young  Kg        0.26    1500     390
(e) Complex fert    Kg     0.26    150      39.00    0.26     150     39.00    0.26     350      91.00 (iii) Fodder       Mt            60    10.2    612
Sub-total fertilizer                        267.00                    453.50                     461.50 (iv) Insemination  Lumpsum                1       1
(iii) Micronutrients   Kg   0.50     20      10.00    0.32      25      8.00    0.32      25       8.00 (v) Veterinary Exp   Lumpsum             25      25
(iv) Manures      Kg        1.00     20     20.00    1.00     100    100.00    1.00      100     100.00 (vi)Water          Lumpsum               11      11
(v) Herbicides   Kg        1.80      4       7.20    2.00      10     20.00    2.00      10      20.00 (viii) Equip 0 and M  Lumpsum            90      90
(vi) Plant protection    Lt  1.20     15      18.00    5.00       5     25.00    2.00      10      20.00                                                            z
(viii) fuel & Lubricant  Kg  0.14    150      21.00    0.14     210     29.40    0.14     210      29.40                                                            Z
(viii) Labour      Manday   0.28    200       56.00    0.28     300     84.00    0.28     300      84.00                                             ___
Total variable Costs                         482.00                    703.90                     792.90 Total Operating Costs                          1754 
C. Vartable Costs /ton of produce             34.43                     50.28                      66.08
D. Gross Margins                            1198.00                   6296.10                    6407.10 D. Gross Margins                              866.25
Notes: (@ )Improvements resulting from the project based upon (i) improved ingation and drainage; (ii) increased efficiency through adoption of better production technology; and (Nii) reduction of crop losses
(-) Fruits trees yield with project case would result from improved technology by top working of the old trees and improved management.



AZERBAIJAN REPUBUC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table: 3. ECONOMIC FARM-GATE PRICES OF MAJOR AGRICULTURAL CROPS AND INPUTS
(In Constant 1996 US$ per mt)
CALENDAR YEAR                                 1996        1997       1998       1999       2000        2001       2002       2003        2004             2005
1. AGRICULTURAL CROPS
WHEAT/i                                        234         192        181        175         170        168        167        166         165              164
SEED COTTON12                                  335         330        338        337        335         333        331        329         327              326
MAIZE/3                                        201         161        150        145         141        140        139        138         137              136
2. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
PHOSPHATE ROCK/4                                64          65         66         63         63          63         62         62          62               61
UREA/5                                         257         235        222        215        208         206        205        203         202              201
TSPI6                                           222        211        198        193         189        186        184         182        179              177
DAP17                                          263         255        251        240         230        227        225        223         221              219
POTASSSIUM CHLORIDE/8                          162         160        159        160         160        159        157        156         155              154
NOTES:
1. Wheat: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Wheat (US), No. 1, hard red winter, ordinary protein, export price, delivered at Gulf ports.
2. Seed Cotton: Export parity prices derived from the projected prices for Seed Cotton: Cotton 'A' index, middling 1-3132 inch, CIF, Europe.
3. Maize: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Com (US), No. 2 Yellow, FOB, Gulf Ports.
4. Phosphate rock: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Phosphate rock (Moroccan), 70% BPL, contract, FAS, Casablanca.
5. Urea: Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Urea, varying origins, bagged, spot, FOB, Europe.
6. TSP (Triple Superphosphate): Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for TSP, bulk, spot, FOB, Gulf.
7. DAP (Diammonium Phosphate): Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for DAP, Bulk, Spot, FOB, US Gulf.
8. Potassium Chloride (Muriate of Potash): Import parity prices derived from the projected prices for Potassium Chloride, standard grade, spot, FOB, Vancouver.       >
z
Source : Worid Bank. November 1996. Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries - A World Bank Quarterly.                                                          1:x



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Table 4: Fann Model - 3 HA CROP & DAIRY ACTMTIES
(in constant 1996 USS)
Project Year                           0        1        2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9        10      11       12       13       14       I6
A. WITH PROJECT
1. Investment Costa
1. Rehabilitaon of I & D Works
(i) Main canal                                    787                                                                699
(ii) On-tarm Irrigation and Drainage works                 302      302      302                                                  363
Subtotal: Rehabilitation of I& D works              787     1001     302      302                                                   363
2. Farm Machinery and Infrastructure                 7000
Total Investment Costs                             7787    1001      302      302                                                  363
II. Operating Costs
1. Imgation and Drainage works                                108      108      108      108      108      108     108      108      108      108      108      108      108      108
2. Crop Production costs
(I) Wheat                                 62       70       77       85       93       95       95      95       95       95       95       95       95       95       95       95
(ii) Barley                               14       18       21       24       27       26      26       26       26       26       26       26       26       26       26      26
(iii) Com                                  5        14      28       46       68       81       81       81       81       81      81       81       81       81       81       81
(iv) Conton                                125      138      149      159     166      155      155      155      155      155      155      155     155      155      155      155         1
(v) Forage Green                           68       68       66       65       63       57       57       57      57       57       57       57       57       57       57       57
(vi) Vegetables                            122      150      180      212      245      253      253     253      253      253      253      253      253      253      253      253
(vii) Fruits                                124     151      180      209      240      246      246     246      246      246      246      246      246      246      246      246
Sub-Total                                  520      608      701      799      902      914      914     914      914      914      914      914      914      914      914      914
3. Dairy Production costs                   1368    1420    1471       1523    1754    1764    1754    1754    1754    1754    1754    1754    1754    1754    1754    1754
Total operating costs                        1888    2028    2280    2430    2764    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776
Total Costa                                  1888    9815    3282    2732    3066    3139    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776    2776
III. REVENUES
(I) Wheat                                    102      119      137      156      175      194     194      194      194      194      194      194      194      194     194      194
(ii) Barey                                   54       60       65       69       73       76       76       76      76       76       76       76       76       76       76       76
(iii) Com                                     13      29       51       79       111     149      149      149      149      149      149      149      149      149     149      149
(iv) Cotton                                  281      302      320      334     344      351      351      351      351      351      351      351      351     351      351      351
(v) Forage Crops                             33       34       35       35       35       35       35       35       35      35       35       35       35       35       35       35
(vi) Vegetables                              240      287      337      390     445      504      504      504      504      504      504      504      504     504      504      504
(vii) Fruit Trees                            396      468      542      620     701      785      785      785      785      785      785      785      785     785      785      785
(viii) Dairy Production                      1521    1796    2071    2345    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620    2620
Total Revenues                                2639    3095    3558    4028    4505    4713    4713    4713    4713    4713    4713    4713    4713    4713    4713    4713                      >
IV. NotBenefilt                                751     -8720    276      1296    1439    1574    1937    1937    1937    1937    1937    1937    1937    1937    1937    1937                   Z
z
m
'*11



ProjetYear                                        0        1        2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       14       16
B. WITHOUT PROJECT
I. Investment Costs
1. Rehab of I & D works, on-farm field works         520      661      200      200                                                  240
2. Farn Machinery                                    4620
Total Investment Costs                             5140     661      200      200                                                  240
11. Operating Costs
1. Irrigation & DrainageO & M                                  54      54       54       54       54       54       54       54       54      54       54       54       54       64
2. Crop Production costs
(I) Wheat                                          64       65       67       69       70      72       73       75       76       78       79       81       82      84       85
(ii) Barley                                        15       16       17       19       20      21       22       24       25       26       28       29       30      31       33
(ii) Corn                                           6        6        7        8        8        9       10       10       11       12      12       13       13       14       15
(lv) Cotton                                         130      136     141      147      152      158      163      169      174      180      185     191      196      202      207
(v) Forage Green                                    69       70       71       72       74       75      76       77       78       79       80       81       82       83       84
(vi) Vegetables                                     128      134      140      146      152      158      164     170      176      181      187      193      199      205      211
(vii) Fruits                                        130      137      143      149      155      161      167      174     180      186      192      198      205      211      217
Sub-Total                                           542      564      586      609      631      653     675      697      719      741      764      786      808      830      852
3. Dairy Production costs                            1394    1419    1445    1471    1497    1522    1548    1574    1600    1625    1651              1677    1703    1728    1754
Total operating costs                                 1936    2038    2086    2134    2181    2229    2277    2325    2373    2421    2469    2517    2565    2612    2660
Total Costs                                           7075    2699    2286    2334    2421    2229    2277    2325    2373    2421    2469    2517    2565    2612    2660
Ill. REVENUES
(I) Wheat                                             107      112      118      123      128     237      139      144      149      154      159      165      170      175     175
(0) Barley                                            57       60       63       66       68       71       74       77      80       83       86       89       92       95       95
(iii) Com                                             14       15       16       17       18       26       28       29      31       32       33       35       36       38       38
(Iv) Cotton                                           294      308      321      334     348      444      461      477      494      510      527      543     560      576      576
(v) Forage Crops                                      34       36       37       38       39       41       42       43      45       46       47       48       50       51       51
(vi) Vegetables                                       253      266      279     291      304      317      330      343      356      369      381      394     407      420      420
(vii) Fruit Trees                                     417      438     460      481      502      523      545      566      587      608      629     651      672      693      693
(viii) Dairy Production                               1576    1631    1686    1741        1796    1851     1906    1961    2016    2071    2126    2181    2236    2290    2345
Total Revenues                                         2752    2865    2978    3091    3204    3511          3624    3640    3756    3872    3989    4105    4221    4338    4393
IV. Net Beneflts                                       -4323     166      692      767     782      1282    1246    1316    1383    1452    1520    1688    1657    1725    1732
C. INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS                              -2397    110       604     682      792      656      691      622      554      486      417      349      280     212      205
D. FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ON
INCREMENTAL INVESTMENT (%)                              20
. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ON
INCREMENTAL INVESTMENT (%)                              25                                                                                                                                      Z
z
__ _.



- 78 -                                ANNEX G
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX G
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. THE TARGET GROUP
1.    Due to the collapse of the centrally managed system of production, trading blockage, unsold
products, unpaid salaries, most of the farm population in the project raions including people with working
capacity are going through an economic crisis. The main problem of majority of population in the project
farms is to find new ways of generating income both in the farm and outside. To identify the target
group for this proposed project, the population in all the project farms can broadly be divided into the
following two broad categories: (i) people with low or no working capacity; and (ii) people with working
capacity. Tables 1 and 2 provide details of these two categories by farms.
2.    The first category includes handicapped people, invalids, elderly living alone, single parent
families, and pensioners. The total size of these groups is between 15 and 46 percent of the total farrn
population. These groups are permnanently in need of assistance (welfare). The land privatization process
is expected to legally protect these groups by allowing the use of land as a source of income through
leasing. At the conmmunity level, these groups may also be supported through social safety networks.
Table 1: Total Number of People with No (or Low) Working Ability
Total Number (and       Total Number of    Total Number         Total
% of Total         People (and % of      of Male with    Number of
Farm      Population) of People    Total Population)      Working       Female with
with No Working         with Working          Ability        Working
Ability (Male &          Ability"                             Ability
Female Combined)*  IbIityI
Ghilinjili       267 (46 %)             717 (55 %)             336             381
Gulaband         732 (28 %)             1520 (59 %)            664             856
& Hatai
Narimanov        1205 (28 %)           2451 (57 %)            1141            1310
Yergouz          1604 (17 %)           6344 (68 %)            3163            3171
Shafag           478 (15 %)             1914 (59 %)            902            1012
Total            4286 (21 %)           12946 (62 %)           6206            6730
This group includes handicapped, elderly living alone, pensioners and single parent family member. Data by
gender is not available.
** This group includes people of 16 - 60 year age, and are capable of working.



- 79 -                               ANNEX G
3.    The second category includes people with working ability (people between ages 16-60, and able
bodies). The total size of this group is between 55 and 62 percent of the total farm population (see Table
1). During this transition, budgetary constraints, lack of new skills required in a market economy, lack
of markets, access to credit have adversely affected this group of people with working capacity.
Table 2: Number of Employed, Unemployed and Unpaid Workers
Total         Total         No. of         No. of       Total Number
Number of    Number of   Unpaid Farm         Declared     of Unemployed
Farm       People with    Employed      Worker*       Unemployed       and Unpaid
Working     People (with   (and % of         People         Workers
Ability (Total    Good       Work Force)    (and % of    (Target Group)
Work Force)   Condition)                    Work Force)
Ghilinjili       717           118        543 (76 %)       56 (8 %)          599
Gulaband        1520           929        263 (17 %)      328 (22 %)         591
& Hatai
Narimanov       2451           1686       785 (32 %)       0 (0 %)           785
Yergouz         6344           1808       651 (10 %)    3885 (61 %)         4536
Shafag          1914           518        582 (30 %)     814 (43 %)          1396
Total           12,946         5,059      2,804 (22%)   5,083 (39 %)         7,907
* The number of unpaid farm workers = number of farm workers.
4.    Out of the total population with working capacity, the declared unemployed people and unpaid
farm workers' are presently in need of finding productive employment and to generate income to support
themselves and their families (see Table 2). The total size of these groups (declared unemployed and
unpaid farm workers) is between 18 and 48 percent of the total farm population.
Causes of Poverty
5.    The major causes of poverty in the project farms are: (i) lack of alternative sources of
employment, particularly outside agriculture; (ii) underdeveloped basic community services (e.g. piped
drinking water supply, gas supply for heating etc.); (iii) lack of inputs and technical advice for
improved/profitable crop and livestock production; (iv) availability of credit for agriculture and local
enterprises; (v) lack of technical knowledge and skills for creation and management of non-farm
enterprises; (vi) inadequate marketing facilities; (vii) trading blockage and border conflicts; (viii) lack of
community based organizations or self help groups; (ix) unpaid salaries for workers, and late (and low)
payment of pensions; (x) high inflation rate; (xi) limited amount of arable land in some cases (e.g. in
Narimanov Farm); and (xii) farm population contains significant percentage (15-28 percent) of people
Since all farm workers have not been paid their salaries, the number of unpaid farm workers equals the
number of farm workers.



- 80-                                 ANNEX G
who have no or low working capacity (e.g. handicapped, invalids, victims of war, elderly living alone,
single parent families and pensioners). The number of people needing assistance is provided in Table
3.
Table 3: Number of People Needing Assistance
Total Number (and %    Total Number (and
Total Work     of Total Population)       % of Total
Farm          Total     Force (and %        of People with        Population) of
Population     of Total     Working Ability Who    People** Needing
Population)    Are Presently in Need   Permanent Assistance
of Assistance*     (Welfare Population)
Gilinjili         1292       717 (55 %)          599 (46 %)             267 (21 %)
Gulaband &        2575       1520 (59 %)         591 (23 %)             732 (28 %)
H{atai
Narimanov         4330       2451 (57 %)         785 (18 %)            1205 (28 %)
Yergouz           9393       6344 (68 %)        4536 (48 %)            1604 (17 %)
Shafag            3250       1914 (59 %)         1396 (43 %)            478 (15 %)
Total            20,840     12,946 (62 %)       7,907 (38 %)           4,286 (21 %)
This group includes declared unemployed and unpaid farm workers.
This group includes handicapped, elderly living alone, pensioners and single parent family member.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The primary objective of the Community Development component is to support suitable
mechanisms for people based community development activities and strengthen local groups to take an
active part in the land privatization and farm restructuring process. Specifically, this component will
support activities that will: (i) ensure that the privatization process is used as an opportunity to increase
involvement of the population and that the land distribution process takes place equitably; (ii) assist the
people of the villages and target group members to establish confidence in their ability to manage their
own affairs at the community level; (iii) provide support to critical community infrastructure through
rehabilitation; in particular domestic water supplies and small social infrastructure which could be
sustained by the community; and (iv) lay the basis for the sustainable development of off-farm small scale
enterprises in the project area.
C. STRATEGY
7.    The strategy of this component is to actively involve the ordinary village population and provide
them with sufficient knowledge and training in order to: (a) develop their ability and confidence in
participatory community activities through  encouraging members' participation in planning and
implementing community initiatives; (b) take an active role in the process of privatization and ensure that
their interests as individuals and groups are given due consideration through assuring a demand-driven
approach in the identification, assessment and selection of community initiatives; (c) initiate and manage



- 81-                                  ANNEX G
community level activities and investments through improving their capacity to implement and monitor
community initiatives; and (d) diversify income sources and increase employment alternatives through
the development of off-farm small-scale enterprises.
8.     The component would assist in the development of a community based approach to problems
which can be dealt with and sustained at the village level and which will not require further involvement
of national institutions. Priority would be given to meeting women's needs. Applications from women
for training in technical, business and marketing skills as well as for credit would be given first priority,
and carefully monitored.
D. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
9.     This component consists of four major activities: (i) mass information campaign on the
privatization process; (ii) development of local capacities in participatory community development; (iii)
rehabilitation of critical community infrastructure; and (iv) creation of new types of employment
opportunities in the project area.
(i)    Information Campaign: This component would initiate and operate a mass information
campaign in each village of the project raions. This information campaign would involve:
(a) an information campaign to the beneficiaries on the status of the privatization as well
as the procedures and options available; and (b) organization of public meetings for the
discussion of privatization procedures in each village.
(ii)    Development of Local Capacities in Participatory Community Development: Once the
privatization is underway and the community members have been informed, activities that
would speed up the involvement of people in the privatization process and development
of local capacities in community development would be undertaken. These would consist
of: (a) introduction of participatory planning processes to enable communities to state
their needs and priorities, and to enable Community Development Workers and other
project staff to translate these needs and priority into coherent community plans; (b)
identification and selection of the community level organizers who would be responsible
for coordinating community activities; (c) providing community level organizers and
community members with the training required to be able to effectively facilitate such
processes; and (d) strengthening the ability of communities to select, implement and
manage community initiatives.
(iii)   Rehabilitation of Critical Community Infrastructure: The project would support the
rehabilitation of critical community infrastructure in the project farms. Reliable domestic
water supply has been found to be a pressing need in most of the project farms,
especially in Gulaband and Hatai farms2 in Udjar raion..
2 Supply pipelines exist but need rehabilitation of about 1 km. The distribution point for three
villages is located next to the offices of Hatai farm, which is also in need of repair and replacement of
some equipment. Some new parts of the village are not connected by the pipeline system, which need
to be extended by about 1 km. Additional pumps would need to be installed. There are currently no
house connections. The system is also turned off due to considerable debts by the farms which were
responsible for paying the bills until recently. Similar interventions could be planned later for other
communities. In Gilinjili where water is supplied from four unequipped artisan wells (3 free flowing and
one with pump-set), an entirely autonomous community level user's organization for water management
could be developed and the wells equipped with basic facilities,



- 82 -                                 ANNEX G
10.    The rehabilitation of the system would require the willingness of members of the community to
organize themselves into a user's group to take over the responsibility of future operation and
maintenance of the system, through collection of water charges3. The formation of user's group would
be promoted and guided by the community organiser. The project would provide for the necessary
training of leaders. The formation of such user groups would be initiated in Gilinjili and if successful,
would be replicated to other villages in the five project farms where development of village level water
supply systems are technically feasible and financially within the possibilities of the project. It is estimated
that some eight villages would have the potential of having an independent village based domestic water
supply systems.
11.    To help communities in the development of community initiatives, such as purchase of materials
for construction or rehabilitation of health post, kindergarten, construction of community centers or other
community facility, purchase of milling machines for use by an entire community or other equipment or
community facilities, repair of sports facility, etc. each village would have access to loans provided by
the project which would be used to finance selected aspects of community initiatives. Loans will be
made by Agroprombank and only a one-time capital grant up to 50 percent of the total capital required
for commercially viable activities and the remaining balance of 50 percent would be provided as a term
credit to the beneficiaries. These loans could be spent on one or more community initiatives.
12.    The basic criteria for approval of funds would be:
e      existing social services and infrastructure networks;
*      supply some input or skill not available locally;
=      the initiative should benefit the community as a whole or a group of vulnerable people
and contribute to the improvement in social welfare;
*      willingness of the community to adopt a participatory approach;
*      contain a sufficient gender mix to meet component objectives;
*      initiative would be operated and maintained by the community itself after the initial
investment;
*      ability to handle the financial payment associated with the initiative as established by the
credit program; and
*      have adequate extension support.
13.    The community would participate through its contribution of management, design, labour and
other inputs available locally. In the early stages when the communities lack investment capital, it is
essential that the project provide some material input as a form of encouragement.
14.   Implementation of related social infrastructure would involve appraisal of costs, engineering
design and contracting mechanisms by the technicians from specialized agencies, component and NGO
staff. In order to avoid complication of the involvement of different government agencies in the project,
it is most likely that construction for water supply and other social infrastructures would be contracted
to NGOs or the private sector.
The emergence of private farmers provides an opportunity to assume the responsibility for overall
water management of their respective farms. The water user's association would be formed through a
participatory process as planned for the rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage works.



- 83 -                                   ANNEX G
(iv)    Creation of Employment Opportunities and Training:
15.    The conmmunity development component would support the creation of business centers, would
encourage and assist the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises. The business centers would
provide training and advisory services to individuals or groups of people who want to establish viable
business either as individuals or in groups, and whose business proposal has been carefully examined by
the project to ensure its feasibility from technical, financial and economic points of view. The likely
skills to be developed in each of the farm population have been presented in Table 4.
Table 4: Likely Skills to be Developed
Farm                                     Skills to be Developed
Ghilinjili            * Sewing and knitting
* Improved farming techniques (as 76 % of the work force is engaged in
agriculture)
* Food processing
* Electricity repair & maintenance
* Basic accounting & marketing
Gulaband & Hatai      * Cotton processing & manufacturing (small-scale) of cotton products
* Food (vegetable and fruits) processing
* Wood working (e.g. furniture making)
* Basic accounting & marketing
Narimanov             * Food (fruits & vegetables) processing
* Tea processing & packaging
* Sewing & knitting
* Milk processing (e.g. hard cheese making for export)
* Baking ( some women have already initiated cake & bread making)
* Repair & maintenance of machineries and equipments
* Basic accounting and marketing
Yergouz               * Food processing
* Poultry farming (as people already have basic know how)
* Wood working (window frame & furniture making)
* Repair & maintenance of machines & equipments
* Basic accounting & marketing
Shafag                * Cotton processing and manufacturing (small-scale) of cotton products
* Wood working
* Repair & maintenance of machines, equipments
* Poultry farming
* Basic accounting & marketing
16.    The types of businesses which could merit support would be sewing and knitting, small scale food
processing, plumbing, electricity, machinery services, etc. In the project area, there is considerable
interest in the development of certain types of traditional economic activities carried out by women, such
as carpet making, knitting and sewing, milk processing, grainmills, development of fish in ponds, or food
processing which can range from small scale preserves to larger scale canning.



- 84 -                               ANNEX G
17.   The business centers would provide support and assistance to women and men interested in
diversifying income sources through starting small- and medium-scale off-farm activities. Each of the
centers would be staffed by a Business Adviser, who would be recruited and trained by the project.
Business centers in the project raions would be established.
18.   These Business Centers, through its Business Advisers, would play an instrumental role in: (a)
provision of basic information services on the operation and management of small businesses; (b)
identification of training needs at local level; (c) organization of training sessions locally when sufficient
demand is reached, for either technical or managerial aspects; (d) addressing people to the right
specialized agencies for advice; (e) assisting people in establishing recognized manufacturing or trading
companies, cooperatives or other institutions; (f) assisting people in preparing proposals for start-up credit
for new enterprises; and (g) supporting new enterprises and providing advisory services.
E. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
19.   The implementation of this pilot operation will be carried out with the assistance of an
International Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) with demonstrated sound knowledge and
experience in carrying out the required activities. The Community Development Officer, under the
supervision of the Project Management Unit, would be responsible for the coordination of the
component staff and activities, as well as for liaison and coordination with the NGO. NGO and the
PMU would sign a Memorandum of Understanding or an agreement. The participation of the NGO
in the project would be governed by this agreement and would describe the activities of the NGO in the
organization and supervision of communities activities, provision of training and technical assistance
roles, responsibilities and authority. It will also include the definition of the operational arrangements,
required inputs and expected outputs of their participation in the implementation of the community
development component.
F. MONITORING INDICATORS
20.   The component would be monitored at two levels: first, by the PMU and the M&E Officer and
second, by the Agroprombank for those activities related to the credit program.
21.   The qualitative nature of this component makes it difficult to establish a quantifiable monitoring
indicators. Some of these indicators are the following:
*     The manner in which the Business Centers functions;
*     The CDWs degree of success in mobilizing support from the community;
*     The degree to which community members know about the project;
*     Level of participation of women and youth in project activities;
*     Beneficiary perception of project ownership;
*     The degree to which beneficiaries' needs/requirements are addressed by the CDWs and
NGO staff;
*     The degree to which the component has contributed to beneficiaries' utilization of credit
for income generating activities and minor community infrastructure and other
community initiatives; and
*     Views of non-participants of the project and the component.



- 85 -                               ANNEX G
Some of these indicators could be converted to quantitative measures, for example:
*     Number of queries, membership and types of training courses;
*     All participants in all projects activities recorded by gender;
*     Credit applications and approval recorded by gender;
*     Minor community infrastructures financed by the project by type of infrastructure;
*     Credit applications for community development initiatives and business development
and approvals by gender;
*     Training requests;
*     Enterprises started by type and gender;
*     Attendance at meetings and interest in the component's activities;
*     Regular enquiries among the concerned populations, including non-participants; and
*     Others.
The above list of indicators is an indicative one. Appropriate monitoring and evaluation
indicators will be developed to suit the specific needs of the component during project implementation.



- 86 -              ANNEX H
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX H
PROJECT COST TABLES



AZERBAIJAN REPUBIJC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingen
(US$ '000)
1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      Total
A. Farm Privatization Support Services
1. Land Registration Services                            1,508.3     239.7     186.1     190.9     197.4    2,322.3
2. Farm Information and Advisory Services                 1,439.2    443.1     312.6     314.7      298.9    2,808.4
3. Water Users Association                                 579.6     259.7     219.5     207.0      198.9    1,464.7
4. Privatized Farm Credit Services                         861.7   2,881.2   3,865.3   3,592.7   2,239.5   13,440.4
Subtotal Farm Privatization Support Services               4,388.7   3,823.6   4,583.5   4,305.2   2,934.7   20,035.7
B. Rehab- Main Irrigation Water Supply & Drainage Works
1. Barda - Ghilinjili Collective Farm                       34.7     540.2     539.4      54.4      56.2    1,225.0
2. Lenkoran - Narimanov State Farm                          33.2      80.5     114.0       8.9        9.2      245.9
3. Salyan - Shafag Collective Farm                         430.6     422.0      66.3      68.0       70.3    1,057.2
4. Udjar - Gulaband-Hatai Collective Farm                   31.5     863.3     962.9      46.3       47.8    1,951.8
5. Xachmaz - Yergouj State Farm                            381.5     433.6     108.5      54.5       56.4    1,034.5
Subtotal Rehab- Main Irrigation Water Supply & Drainage Works  911.5   2,339.6   1,791.0   232.1      240.0    5,514.3
C. Community Development Program                             242.1     411.2     298.9      51.8       34.6    1,038.6
D. Project Management and Implementation
1. Project Management Unit - Baku                          798.9     141.9      94.1      85.6      88.1    1,208.6
2. Project Implementatfon Units in Raions                  157.1     319.4     184.2      176.6     182.3    1,019.6
Subtotal Project Management and Implementatfon               956.0     461.3     278.3     262.2      270.4    2,228.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         6,498.2   7,035.8   6,951.7   4,851.3   3,479.8   28,816.8
z
z
rrl
x



AZ'ERBAUAN REPUJBLIC
FAR11 P1VATIZATION PROJECT
Tdl .1. Land Registaion Swlic                                                                            Unit
Datlld Cotcst
aua_dd                     {Ut                           (US$ w0)                      Tdft   wkdudhg Condhgd  IUS S VOO)
Uflkl    19  1  t    1t    2000  2lO    Tebl   Wm0   179f          -" 1    M"T     zlD    20@1   Taebl  1IN7_ M 19U            2mNeo    20011   Tdtzl
L' h       Coam
A. 0_ --R   II          Reslt  n_pot
A nl"      _        _opfNaM   PC                  No.         2      .      .      .      .      2      25    so.o 0                                  50.0   55.7                                      55.7
SC_nr                                             No.         I                                   I            10    10.0  -                     -    t.O    11.1                -       .      .      11.1
MopHFapimPs                                      Nos.         3                                  3          3.5   10.5   ,       ,       ,       ,    10.5   11.7        ,       ,       ,      ,      11.7
Fmj DO. NWw ndWFfleSr                             No.         I                                   I     I -I 1 1  11.0    -      -                    11.0   12.3                -       -      -      12.3
GlS VAbktgn                                       No.         I                                   I      I .      0    10.0  -   -       .10.0   11.1                    -       -       -      -      11.1
DWAEnay FCs                                      Not.         2      -      -      -      .      2       5    10.0        -      -       -       -     10.0   11.1       -       -       -      -      11.1
Cel Roer Pottr                                    No.         I                                   I      I -I 1 1  11.0   -      -       -       -     11.0   12.3       -       -       -      -      12.3
La    Foatf Dok                                   No.         I                                   1      3      3.0      -       -       -       -     3.0    3.3        -       -       -      -       3.3
Totl SteMon suvyngs E    qdnw                     No.         3      -      .      -      -      3      16    45.0        -      -       -       -    45.0   50.2        -       -       -      -      50.2
Fbid Noambook CpC                                 No.         3             -      -3                    a    1S.0        -      -       -18.0   20.1                    -       -       -      -      20. 1
L     agm    GPS R nciv                           No.         3      -      -      -      -      3      25    75.0        -      -       .75.0   83.8                                                  83.6
Vet*W                                             No.         I                                   1     12    12.0        -      -       -       -    12.0   13.4        -       -                     13.4
Land Rgikabon Softan                              No.         I                                  1      25    25.0        -      -       -       -    25.0   27.9        -       -       -      -      27.9
Coe        appig0eotSoltm                         No.         3      -      *      -      .       3     tO    30.0        .      -       -       -    30.0   33.4        -       -33.4
GIs Scra                                          No.         I                                   1     7.5    7.5        -      -       -       -     7.5    8.4        -       -       -      -       8 4
Ph bo.pler                                        NO.         I                                   I     10    10.0        -      -       -       -    10.0   11.1        -       -       -      -      1`1.1
Lr Jet Fsbser                                   Nurb          2      -      -      -      -      2      1.2    2.4        --                     -     2.4     2.7       -       -       -      -       2.7
Fax " Ma4n                                      Nu1b          I                                   I      I -CO 10         -                            1.0    1.1        -       -       -      -       1.1
OflkF Furnitr                                  Lumpu          I                                   1      3      3.0       -       -      .       -     3.0    3.3        - _- _3.3
Sboa Ca            Regsrtinwl Rn Supot                                       3444.. -                                                                  344.4  384.0                   ----384.0
IL ftb   Lafid C  _maN    Rlo  v1  _Wa   - I  _ab
1. C_"to am dft t_
PC Flo Swv arid N*hork Sdvw                     No.         6      -                                   9    45.0        -      -       -       -    45.0   50.2        -       -       -      -      50.2          O
LrndRegsratin  ond_ sofi                        No.         6                                  5      10    50.0        -                            0.0   55.7                -                      5.7         X0
Cad"        mppnoiis ndm                        No.         5             -      -      -       5      e    30.0        -       -              -     30.0   30.4       --A                           30.4
Dukmqo                                          No.         5      6                           10     3.5   17.5   17.5         --                  35.0   195    20.0         --                    39.5
Lc4d Ftfr                                       No.         5      .      .      -      -      5      1.2    6.0        .      -       -       -     6.0    6.7        -       -       -      -       6.7
Fax4pon                                         No.         5      -      -      -      -       5       1     6.0       -                             .0    5.6        -       -       -      -       5.6
Ftrboi                                          No          5      -      -                            5    25.0                -      -       -    25.0   27,9        -       -       -      -      27.9
Pon Pbftb                                       No.         5      -                                   7    35.0        -       -      -       -    35.0   39.0   _-                   -      -      39.0
_Cqanddibezqul_                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~213.65 76         231.0  235.0   20.0  -       -     -      25
2ZTatd 'm lsudhg1ien                              No.         5      -      -      -      -       5      15    76.0       -       -       -      -    75.0   83.6        -       -       -      -      83.6
3. V dhA                                          No.         5      -                                   12    eoo .--0                               60,0   66.9        -       -       -      -      66.9
4. Ocm dsnkesocryknovaborns                    L_Wn           6 5                                 5      5    25.0   __- 25,0   30.4                                     -       -       -      -      30A4
SubotlStbbLaSC r_Rrl tsonlbnl_-II,-r                                                                            373.5   17.5       -       .       - 391.0  415.9   20.0                   -      -     435.9
1. _q"       CadaW   Adver
Solbry                                         Mlonih       3      -      -      -      .      3      15    45.0        -      -       -       -    45.0   45.6        -       -       -      -      45.6
StWtoc                                         Mo1          3                                  3      4.5    1J.5 6                                  13.5   13.7       -       -       -      -      13.7
Air4r       lpt                               PerS 1i       I                                       1  3.5    3.5                  --   -3.5    3.5                                                        3.5
Iholtf  mdTm Von                               Mlrnh        3      -3                                   1     3.0       -      -       -       -     3.0    3.0        *       *       *      -       3.0
k1n1 Tmpoit                                    Morgh        3      -      -      *      *      3      o 5     1.5       .      .       * _            1.5    1.5            _i._                        5
Subltl Mpping Cmsbidl A*dsor                                                                                   66.5              -       .       -   6.6      67.4       -       -       -      -      6.
2. Lad LqgedtoANlocaton ervl
Saly                                           month        a                                  6       15    90.0       -      -       -       -    90.0   91.2        -       -       -      -      91.2
subidne                                        Mai          a                                  a      4.5   27.0                  ----27.0   27.4                                 ----27.4
Air-vil    nlm                                Portip        2      .      .      .      .      2      3.5    7.0        -      -       -             7.0    7.1        -       -       -      -       7.1
In babf   m dTnwlon                            Month        a                                  a       I      e.0                                    6.0    6.1        -6.1  
1,_nrl Tmpont                                  Morilh       a                                  a *       6 o5  3.0     -__                           3.0    3.0        -       -       -      -       3.0  
Sit         LWL eglidionAllwtio                                                                               1i3.0      -                            33.0  134.8        --                     -     134.8        C
S.Dbb DYZM Advre
SIrY                                           Month        6      -                                   10    60.0       -       -      -60.0   60.8                    -       -       -      -      60.8  
SusWw                                          Mei          a                                    6    4.5   27.0                  ---27.0   27.4                                   ---27.4X



Air-bavs epq                                 Per bip       2      -      .        _          2      3.5    7.0               -       -             7.0    7.1           -          -      -       7.1
hkNOriudTruid  Tioin                          Moui h              -      -            -      6       1     6.0                       -            6.0    6.1        -              -. -           61
N*vrslT                                        Ih                 -         -         -      6      0.5     30       -        -     -     -       3.0    3O                               -       30
SMl DAIDs D                Advsor                                                                           103.0              -              -  103.0  1044 4                              -     1044
SOWN  Tdw _d A302.5                                                                                                         -       77                      308e        - -  - 6                    3066e
F-ign Tras  - M1 4ause - 10 days              LIEW4f                                                        450        -       -       -      -   45.0   456          -      -       -      -      45.6
Fei"PS&4, Tom - 20 dsp                        Lsw-                                                          85.0                                           86.1       -      -                     86.1
L 4mflphthl-J -IdAb.                          L    u                                                        20.0   20.0        -      *       -   40.0   20.3   20.8         -                     41.1
LOIi-ISnntsrsigiibalnlng -Calsahi sysisms       -                                                           20.0   20.0                       -   40.0   20.3   20.8         -       -      -      41.1
hmalg Trlag -  _     5lt*a=                   Lha4au                                                         100                                   10.0   10.1                                     10.1
LocalTm g-a          -Laid 0atlon             LUq-un                                                        20.0                                   20.0   203                               -      20.3
Lald        puikt llan   t pos                La-m                                                           12.0                                  12.0   12.2        -      -       -      -      12.2
Loamlhi*g-sva"igiddgm ppIg                    Llwuin                                                        20.0                                   20.0   20.3                                     20.3
bwsts22                                                                                                               4.0*                          272.0 _ 2.        1e                            276 7
ToL  _waaas Coa                                                S7.5                                                                -                                   5.!7 --   - 16 - -  -         1.4032 
A. C_ui Rlpsbvu a  P ct S_ppt
M                                              No.         1     1      1      1      1      6      0.8    0.      0.      06      0.6    0.6 o     o     0.7    0.8    0.6    0.8   0.9          4.0
LsgdMlA or                                     No.         1     1      1      1      1      s    0.38     0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    1.8    0.4    0.5          0.5    0.5   0.5         2.4
Ms csi                                         No.         3     3      3      3      3      15    0.24    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    3.6    0.9    0.9    1.0    1.0   1.0               468
Aio  m  (20% of Surn Cova)                  LIpmn                                                          0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    1.7    0.4         0.4 0.5        0.5   0.5       2.3
2h    S _                                                                                                             2s2d.o    2. opwa"                            2.6     2.8      e    2.9      13.6
2. vOll  op*sgo coals                          Aratjal                                                       15.0   15.0   15.0   150    150    750    18.0   19.5   20.5   210   218             100.7
3. 013cm auppiy mid oonvnu*ajon              LwVam                                                          25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   125.0   30 0    32.5   34 1    35.0  36.3         167.9
4 Ut  mi biiln mIne d W nA                                                                                   150    15.0    15.0   15.0   150    75.0    10    19.5   205    210   218            1007
Sthlocl Cagiul a a          a        p7.    67.                                                                                     57 0    50    2851    68.4   740    77.9   79.9  82.8           382.9
It  No                                         No.         5     6      5      6      a     25    0.46      2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4   12.0    Z.9    3.1          33     34    35        le1
omlSaa                                         No.        1s    15    16    16    16         75    0.38     5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    6.4   27.0    7.1         7.7    8.1    8.3   8.6        399          00
FIOdW                                          No.        1S    15    16   1i    15         75    0.24      3.6    3.6    3.6      .6    3.6    1.0    4.7    5.1    5.4         55    57        266
Aowanesa (20% ofaO Cosb)                .  Lump-                                                            2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3   11.4    2.7    3.0    3.1    3.2   3.3              15_3
_*to    _sds                                                                                                 13.7    U.7 -1           F 137 1 3     s7.4    17.5  31. 1913 21.2
2Valdd.opsdgcoa.                               AIsuj         5     5      5      5      5     25       5    25.0   25.0   25.0   250    25.0  125.0   33.2   35.1   36.5   37.4  36.6             180.7
3. 0UM .apIyommwkat                           Lainnm in      6     5                    s 6  8  25     5    25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0  125.0   27.9   286    293    301   309              146.7
4.uUIsNW bjN*Q  oh "  --                       Anriqs        5     5      6      5      5     25       3    15.0   15.0   150    150    15.0   750    19.6  214    225    231   24.0              110a
S_AdI   RsilesLd Ragn#ion ORt. ln projec 5d                                                                   71T   78.7        T   7e77          393 4    9683  104.0  108 2  1110    o  1146 8    536T
ToW Rsacurt Cools                                                                                              1335.7_T135.7                           rs. _-_r _178.1   18e1   1909  19_74_ __l
Teb1                                                                                                    3,3S5.1   193.2  ST239.7  186. iir   197.4   2,322.



AZERBAUAN REPtJOLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Tabe 12. Form InbmIn and Advsory Sw.*es                                                                    Unt
Deted Cost                                                                                                CoA
QuAnthIs                 (tUS$            Eas Cost (US$ '00O)                 Totals ickuding Contingendes (US '000)
Un*    1117  191   1011     2000  2001  Toal  000)  11"7   10"   1t"   2000  2001   Total   1117   100    130    2000   2001   Total
L  hkwaetm  Code
A. Cmiii Fanrho k ebnr_on and Advsoqy Urlt
Offtc Rno                                          Lunp-swm                                                    0.0            -             -    0.0    0.0        -       -                    0.0
PFtocepbr                                             No.        1      -      -      -      -     1    10   10.0             -      -      -    10.0   11.1       -       -       -      -    11.1
Aadlo-VIl EqTm                                        No         1      -      -      -            1    25   25.0             -                  25.0   27.9                                   27.9
Lsr Jet PWr                                         Number       2             -                   2    1.2   2.4             -             -    2.4    2.7        -       -              -    2.7
CmWr - 48                                           Numbwr       I      -                          1    3.5   3.5       -     -             -    3.5    3.9            -       -       -        3.9
FaxMacvln T                                         Nnlphons  erNu-            -           1       I           1 -  -1                            1.0 -  -  -      - 1.                         1.1
Vedie                                                 No         1                -I               1    12   12.0       -                        12.0   13.4           -           -      -    13.4
Offco Furniturs                                    Lurnp-sum                                                   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   15.0    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.6    3.7   17.6
FwmmietloMabtalMal                                 Lump-sum                                                   10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   50.0    11.1   11.4   11.7   12.0   12.3   587
Subtotal Canu l Fanw honnalon and Avmy  Unit                                                                    S69   10   13.0  13.0  13.0  118.9   746    14.9   15.2    1S.6   16.0  138.4
U. Ralon Levsl hhnnfion and Adviay Uid. - Poeod Raion
1. omce Rmnons                                     Lump-surn                                                  12.0     -      -      -      -   12.0   14.6        -       -       -      -   14,6
2. Photcoplar                                         No.        5      -                          5    10   50.0       -     -      -           50.0   55.7           -           -       -   55.7
3. Auhooufl Equl E nwt                                No         5      -                          5    25  125.0             -      -      -   1250   139 4                       -          1394
4.LsarJet Pr,iuw                                    Number      10      -      -      -           10    1.2  12.0             -      -      -   12.0   13.4                -              -    13.4
5. Compuelr-48 4e                                   Number       5      -      -      -            5    3.5  17.5          -         -           17.5   19.5       -       -               -    19.5
6. Fax MadlinaTelaphone                             Numbor       5          -      -         -     5      1    5.0                   -      -    5.0    5.6        -       -       -       -    5.6
7. Vahld                                              Nos        S      -      -                   5      8   40.0      -     -      -      -   40.0   44.6            -           -       -   44.6
8. OlIco Fumwib                                    Lump-sum                                                   15.0      -     -      -      -   15.0   16.7                        -            16.7
9. Famin ldtnnalon Materials                       Lump-w                                                     25.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  105.0   27.9   22.9   23.4   24.0   24.7  122.9
Subloa RaI e  Level Ilbnuson_  and Adcviy Una - Prot                                                           301.5  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  381.5  337.4   22.9   23.4   24.0   24.7  432.4
C. Tochkdtal Asdastnce
1. Foa Management
Solwy                                              Month      15      -                         15    10  150.0       -      -     -      -   150.0  152.0        -              -       -   152.0            
Subsitence                                         Mih        15               .                15    4.5  67.5              -     -      -   67.5   6O4         -       -       -       .   68.4
Air-TralExpenses                                  PVTFip       5      -      -      -            5    3.5  17.5          -         -      -    17.5   17.7        -      -                    17.7
1nreprahlo TnTralo                                Month      15      -      -      -      -    15      1   15.0      -      -                 15.0   15.2       -       -       -       -    15.2
I.an. Tranpoet                                     Mor        15      -      -      -      -    15    0.5   7.5              -            -    7.5    7.6        -       -       .             7.6
Sehtobt Fonn Manageamm                                                                                       257.5                          -  257 5   261.0       -       .               -  261.0
2. ExtnsIon Swervi
salay                                              Month      12             -             -    12    10  120.0       -      -     -      -   120.0  121.6       -       -       .       .   121.6
Subsstence                                         Moogh      12             -                  12    4.5  54.0       -      -     -      -    54.0   54.7       -       -       -       -    54.7
Air-Tral Expenses                                 PwTrip       2                                 2    3.5   7.0              -     -      -     7.0    7.1        -      -       -       -    7.1
Intreprealron ad Trwnnsaon                         Month      12             -                  12      1   12.0                          -   12.0   12.2        -       -       -       -    12.2
lnhrmiTrnsport                                     Monlt      12      -             .           12    0.5   6.0              -     -            6.0    6.1       -       -       -       -    6.1
Su_tal Ex_naon sevces                                                                                        199.0      -            -      -   199.0  201.7       -       -       -       -  201.7
3. AgIcutura ProcesehIllMadke0q;
Salay                                              Mont        6      -      -      -      -     6    10   60.0                    -      -   60.0   60.8                                -   60.8
Subistec                                           Morn        6      -      -      -      -     6    4.5  27.0       -      -     -      -   27.0   27.4            -           -       -   27.4
AIr-Tnal Expenses                                 PerTeip      2          -      -         -     2    3.5   7.0              -     -      -    7.0    7.1        -       -       -       -    7.1
L _deprst.SondTrnlaton                             Month       6      -      -            .       8     1    6.0      -                   -    6.0    6.1        -       -       -       -    61
lmd Trapot                                         Monih       6      -                    -     6    0.5   3.0       -      -     -      -    3.0      30       -       -               -    3.0
Subtotal Agviculturol proceaulnglUarlcellng                                                                  103.0           1-      -      -   103.0  104.4       -                       -   104.4
Subal TedI  Assance                                                                                            5                    -         -   559.5  567.1       -       -       -       -  5671
D. Trahelng
1. he-cenry trang
Saminers on Farm  onmnlon dev & dassrnInation    Lumpum                                                     20.0  20.0  20.0  15.0  15.0   90.0   21.4   22.3   23.1    17.6   18.3  102.9
Trning Matias                                    Lump-ew                                                    10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   50.0   11.1   11.4   11.7   12.0   12.3   58.7
Ctotnalt ou                                      LUrun                                                      25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  125.0   27.9   28.6   29.3   30.1   30.9  146.7                     Z
S_htw 10140utrY                                                                                               SS. 6-5 0   SS.u  S5.0 50.0  50.0  265.0   60.4   62.4   64.1   59.9   61.5  308.3               z
nu
:x



2. Foreign Tran   - Farm hfbonaion & Advlaoy
Nuit      db of basas                                No.                                                        0.0   0.0      -                   0.0    0.0    0.0         -       -      -     0.0
Airfare                                           or rouwd-t    6      4                          10    2.5   15.0  10.0                          25.0   16.7   11.4         -                   28.2
Subutt5                                            Months      72    48                          ' -  120    1.5  106.0  72.0  -      -          180.0  120.4   82 4         -                  202.8
Trab*tgfaes and Metwas                            Lump-sum      6      4      -      *      -    10    10    60.0  40.0            -      -      100.0   66.9   45.8         -           _      112.8
Su*otl Forign Tr         Fm Itradon & Advwy                                                                     1830  122.0      -      -      -  3050   204.0  139 5           _     -       -   3436
Subtoa Trahhg                                                                                                    238.0  177.   55.0   50.0  50.0  5700   2644   201.9    64.1   59.9   61.5   851.9
Ttal dhi_mnot cost                                                                                                1,185.0  210.0 88.0   83.0  830 186299  1,243.4   239.7   102.8   995   102.2  1,787.7
R. Ibeufat Coots
A. Fam   onatlon and Adsoay - Baku level
1.sda
Form lIrwron and advysopyepdalist                    No.        1      1      1      1      1     5   0.38      0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    1.8    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    2.4
Conpierapedalist                                     No.        1      1      1      1      1     5   0.36      0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4        1.8    0.4      0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5       24
Driwr                                                No.        1      1      1      1      1     5   0.24      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    1.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3            03      1.6
Aflm2o       (20% of base oDsa)                   Lmp-n                                                         0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2    1.0        02      0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    1.3
SubtoI SWa                                                                                                        1.2   1.2    12    1.2    12       5.8    1.4      1518              e 1.6    1.7    7.8
2. Famrn l,ftnOrwf  Dissrninatlon tu mas mode       Lu np-um                                                     20.0  200   20.0  20.0        -   80.0   22.3   229    23.4   24.0                92.7
3. Vid*  Oprating Coats                              Annual                                                       7.0   7.0   7.0    7 0    7.0   35.0    9.3        9.8   102    10.5   108    50 6
4. O 04c Supp   an      dcd COnicatof                Anrnal                                                      10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   500    12.2   12.5   12.8    131    13.5   64.0
5. UtbS    o n alie maontnrace                       Anrnal                                                       5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   25.0    6.1          6.4    6.7      69     7.1   33.1
Subt eFnmonaln ad  Avaoy  - Baku level                                                                             43.2   43.2   432   43.2  23.2   195.8   51.2   53.1    54.7    56.1    33.0  248.2
I. Fonn Inonnalon and Advyory Sevic . Poject Raona
1. Salad
Fum In lmabon and advisory spoaaslst                 No.        5      5      5      5      5    25   0.38      1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8    9.0    2.2    2.3    2.5    2.5    2.6   121
Computerapadalist                                    No.        5      5      5      5      5    25   0.36      1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8    9.0    2.2          2 3     2.5     2 5     2.6   12.1
Ddver                                                No.        5      5      5      5      5    25   024       1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2    6.0    1.4    1.6    1.6    1.7    1.7    8.1
Allowances (20% of Base Costs)                    LUMP-sum                                                      1.0   1.0   1.0    10    1.0    5.0        12      1.3    1.4      1.4    1.5    6.7
Subtl Saafle                                                                                                      5.8   5.8    58    5.8   5.8   29.0        7 0     7.5    7.9   81        84    39.0
2. Fom  Inftmalo  Dissomin tu mass moeds            Lumnp-stM                                                    50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0  250.0    55.7   57.2   58.8   60.1    617   293.4
3. Vdicb Opwrabng Coats                              Annual                                                      25.0  25.0  250   25.0  250   125.0   33.2   351  36.5    37 4    38.6   180.7
4. Office Supple and conmunicaMon                    Annual                                                      25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0   125.0   30.4   31.2   32 0    32.8   33 7   160.0
5. Utilies and ofice marintrnance                    Anrujal                                                     15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0   75.0   18.3   19.3   20.1    20.6   21.2   99.4
Sutotal Farm Information and Advory Sevlce - Pret Rai                                                             120.8  120.8  120.8  1208  120.8  604.0   144.5   150.3   155.0   159.0  163.6  772 5
Total Recurrent Coeta                                                                                               164.0  164.0  184.0164.0  144.01 799.8  195.8 2034   209.8   215    19.7  1,020.7
Total                                                                                                                                                  21,4392    473.1 3126   314.7 iTE2, 808.4
z
z



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Tdba 1.3. Water Uses Associon                                                                               Unit
Detalled Coats                                                                                              Cost
QuantUns                   (US$                Base Cost (USS'0)                   Totals Including ContngencIes (US '000)
Unit      1997  1196   111141   2000  2001  Total  VW0)   1W?    I9W8   11W111  2000  2001   Toald  1917    191061  1IM    2000  2001   Total
L unwstant Cost
A. WtiA Unit at PU. Balu
1. Cowei                                           Nos.          1       -      -      -      -     1      3.5    3.5       -      -      -      -     3.5     3.9       -       -      -      -     3.9
2. VehWle                                            o            1      -      -      -      -     t       8      8.0       -      -      -     -      8.0    8.9           -       -         -      8.9
3. Offl equipment                                  Nos.           i         -      -          -     1       3      3.0       -      -      -     -     3.0    3.3        -       -      -      -      33
4. TechnIca Asistance
Lega svw                                        Months         3       -      -      -            3      15    45.0        -     -      -      -   45.0   45.6         -       -      -      -    456
WUA Advisor                                     mont           9      3       -      -      -    12      15   135.0   45.0        -      -      -   180.0  136.8   46.8        -      -      -   183.6
Sholterm Inrepreters                            Months         9      3       -      -      -    12       1      9.0     3.0      -     -      -    12.0    9.1    3.1         -      -      -    12.2
Subtal Technica Acsistance                                                                                     -bY.       4b.              -     -lb                                    -      -  2W1T
SI Tra9iing
StiaffTrssi                                      Nos.          3       -     3       -      -     6      0.9    2)7        -    2.7     -      -     5.4    2.7        -     2.9      -      -     5.6
StudyTours                                       No.           1      2              -            3     8.5      8.5    170      -      -      -    255      8.6    17.7       -     _     _      263
Subtotal Trainng                                                                                                    2t           7            --U.     Y          -777Y---          1
Subtotal WUA Unit at PiU,  u .blk
P. WUA unts InS projet 
1. Vedid                                           Nos           5                                  5       8    40.0       -      -      -      -    40.0   44.6        -       .                  44.6
2.Motorcydes                                       Noie         30                            -    30       3    90.0               -      -      -    90.0   100.3      -       -      -      -   1003
3. TraIng Equipment                                Nos.          5       -                          5      10    50.0        -      -      -      -    50.0   55.7       -       -      -      -    55.7
4. Trnbhing
Sttff/rairs                                      Nos.          6      2      6      2      6    22       0.9     5.4     1.8   5.4    1.8   5.4    19.8    5.5        1.9    5.8   2.0   6.1    21.1
Stalrtrshg                                       No.          24    12    24       12    24    96        0.8    14.4     7.2   14.4   7.2   14.4   57.8    14.6    7.5    15.3   7.9  16.2    61.5
Farmer's training                                Nos.           -  1,125  1,500  1.275   7M0  4.690    0.01        -    11.3  15.0   12.8   7.9   46.9               11.7    16.0  13.9   8.9    50.5
WtUALedstaig                                     Nos.           -   450   800   510   315  1,875    0.01           -    4.5    6.0   5.1    3.2    18.8         *     4.7     6.4    56    3.5    20.2
StudyTows                                        Nos.           -     2      2      2             a      8.5            17.0  17.0  17.0             51.0       -    17.7   18.1   186       -    544
Subdtoal Trdning l
Suo  WUA units In 5 pro9ec rom ns
Tota tnvean,u Cost                                                                                                    1ww>WYITbb>11. 4>4. 4b
Tu. Pscunt Costs
A. WUA at Projct Miagent Unit Balu
1. Salades and AlloUee
?UA - Natiol Coordknar                         NoYslew          1      1      1      I     1      5    0.36      0.4     0.4     0.4     04    0.4    1.8    0.4      0.5     0.5    0.5    0.5     2.4
Stalf Alwanos                                 Lmu.styr                                                           1.4     1.4   1.4    14    1.4    7.0        1.7    1.8    1.9    2.0   2.0        9 4
Travel Alowwncs                               LumP-fnr                                                           0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    2.5    0.6        0.6    0.7   0.7    0.7       3.4
Spot Staff                                     No./yer          1     1       1     1      1      5    0.24      0.2     0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2      1.2    0.3      0.3     0.3   0.3    0.3      1.6
Diw                                            No./Yer          1     1       1     1       1     5      1.8     1.8    1.8   1.8    1.8   1.8    9.0         2.2    2.3    2.5   2.5    2.6    12.1
Subtotal Salie end Allowences                                                                                                      Tm 4.3bUb
2 Opewatn at_ Mininee
Office &*PSm a  Matenaia                       Lwmnp-vrm                                                         4.0     4.0   4.0    4.0   4.0   20.0        5.0    5.2    5.4    5 5    5.7    26.9
Vehicde Opeation N  Maitenance                 Li_P-xt                                                           7.0     7.0    7.0    7.0   7.0   35.0    8.8        9.2    9.5    97   10.0    47.1
Subtal Operadion  id Maiint                                             l. l. ll.                                                U             i.              1. 17. T
Subtotal WUA at Proctll Mangent  Unit. S5l_5T                                                                                       T    7    7              7    2 Tl2                          7 U
a WUA Inin  p ret  _
1. SdWi s nd A    _wanc
WUAOr Spec                                    NmoeYw           3      3      3      3      3     15    0.36      1.1     1.1    1.1   1.1   1.1    5.4        1.3     1.4     1.5   1.5    1.6      7.3
WtrlMg    tSP-ohmt                             NoeYer           3     3      3      3      3    15    0.36       1.1     1.1   1.1    1.1   1.1       5.4     1.3    1.4      1.5   1.5    18       7.3
WUAFairiAgafnt                                 NagYw          24    24    24    24    24    120          1.8   43.2   43.2   43.2  43.2  43.2  216.0   51.8   56.1    59.0  60.5   62.7   290.1
StallAlwars                                   Lwnmmnlyr                                                          4.2     4.2    4.2    4.2   4.2   21.0       5.0    5.5    5.7    5.9   6.1    28.2
Traval Alowaos                                Lump onr                                                           1.0     1.0    1.0   1.0   1.0    5.0    1.2         1.3    1.4   1.4    1.5    6.7
Support Staff                                   No./Year       5      5      5      5      5     25    0.24      1.2     1.2    1.2    1.2   1.2    6.0       1.4     1.6    1.6   1.7   1.7    8.1
Drivr                                          No./Yea         5      5      5      5      5    25       1.8    9.0      9.0    9.0    9.0   9.0   45.0   10.8    11.7    12.3  12.6  13.1    60.4
Subtoti Sdalaie and! Aowamnc
7. OpeaIn and Eaitenanen
Office Suppis ad Maintenae                     Lumwp-sun                                                        12.5   12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5   62.5    15.8   16.4    16.9   17.3   17.8    84.2
Trainig Matris                                 tunp-n                                                            7.5     7.5    7.5    7.5   7.5   37.5    9.5        9.8   10.1   10.4   10.7    50.5
Veliide Operation ar Maitenance                 Arnie                                                           18.0   18.0  18.0  18.0  18.0   90.0   22.7   23.6   24.3  24.9  25.7   121.2
SubtoalOpeaion andMint_nace                                                                                   '       0u  a.     a     .u      ;x7u1        5    T4 7Y9        b.2    2Z 5      54.    Z7
Sub_t WUA inS iproect rimn                                                               Ig_ Y.l                                                                                                                      Zb 14.bJY
Totl iiurntCost h                                                                                                                                                                                                        Zll:   1.  /.    4.  .   5U
Total                                                                                                          528  22e   7T6;  1449  5T7W[ TT97W1iT  1,4847
oW Mdntwtwm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 1.4. Privatized Form Credrt Services                                                              Untt
Detailed Costs                                                                                         Coat
Quantthes                 (USS                Bass Cost (USS 000)                   Totals Including ContIngencles (USS 000)
Unit   1917   199S  1991  2000  2001  Total   000)   1Wt7  1SS8   1999   2000   2001   Total   199?   1S96   1999   2000   2001    TOta
1. Invstment Costs
A Seaonl tLputs /a                                   Amount                                                    5000  1,0000  1,500.0  1,2000      -  4,2000  5000  1,0000 1,500.0 1,2000         -  4.2000
B Mekium term audit lb                              Amnourrt                                                       -  5000  1,000.0  1,5000 2,000.0  5,0000       -  5000  1,000.0 1,500.0 2,0000  5,0000
C. Credi line for community developmerd /c           Amourit                                                           300 0   500 0   700 0          1,5000      -  300 0   500.0  700 0        -  1,500 0
D. Rehabilitation of Prhvatzed Fnr I L 0 Works /d
1. Field Level Improvements - Bards
FieldOitchesileve9ing                              Ha         -   750   750        -     -  1,500    0.25      -   1875   187.5               -   3750        -  2678   281.7        -       -   5494
2. Field Level Improvements - Lenkaran
SpnlerI-rrgation                                   Ha         -     2      3       -     -      5   4.505      -    9.0   135         -       -    225        -    12.9   203                -     332
3. Field LvdA lnprovernnts - Salyan
Field Ditchestevelling                             Ha              500   500   500   600  2,100    0.25        -   125.0  125.0  1250   1500    5250          -   1785   187.8  1927   2395    7985
4. Field Level Improvments - Udjhar
FbItdd schsselt8ng                                Ha          -   750   750        -     -  1.500    0 25      -   187 5   187 5       -      -   375.0       -  267.8  281.7        -       -   549.4
5. Field Level Improvements - Xachmaes
FbedOitdeallve9                                    Ha        50   200   250        -     -   500    0.25   12.5   500    62.5          -           1250   165    71.4   939          -       -    181.8
BubbblerLines                                      Ha         5     5       .      .     -    10   2.252   11.3   113                  -      -    225   130    135          -       -       -    265
Subtotl Fed Level Improvenents- Xchmas,                                                                       236   13    625            -       -   1475   29.5  849    93.9          -            2083
Sub"ot RehaltitstonotPdivalizedFFinn10DWorks                                                                    23.8  5703   5760   125.0  1500   1,445.0  295   811.9  8863   192.7  2395  2,138.9
L Suppodt for Agroprmbank
1. Head Ofnice at Baku
ConputAerfcrArcountngsysterm                       No.        1      -      -      -      -     1      15   150        -       -       -       -    15.0  167         -       -       -      -    167
Accuntig system software                         Amourd                                                       7.5              -       -       -     7.5   8.4        -       -       -      -      8 4
Laer Jet Printer                                  No.                                                         15               -       -       -      1.5   1.7       -       -       -      -      17 \I
Subtotal Head Office at Baku                                                                                  24.0                        - -         24 0   26 8       -       -      -       -    268         W
2. Ralon Brnches -Project Ralons
Comouter - 486M66                                 No.         5      -      -      -     -      5       5   25 0       -       -       -      -    25 0   27 9        -       -       -      -    27 9
Laser jet printer                                 No.         5         -          -            5      1.5    7 5                  -           -     7 5    8 4           -       -       -         8 4
FrAxelephone                                      No.         5         -          -            5      1.2    6 0      *  -            -      -      80    6.7        -       -      -       -      6 7
SubtoW Rabon Branches - Project Ralons                                                                        38T        -       -                    38 5   42 9               -       -      -    42 9
Subtota Support for Agroprombank                                                                                62 5                              -     62 5   69.7       -                            69 7
F. Technkcal A"stance
1. Agricultural credit advisor
Salary                                           Month        6     6       -      -     -    12       15   90 0    90.0       -       -      -    180 0   91 2    93.6       -      -       -    184 8
Subsistence                                      Month        8     6       -           -   -    12   4.5  27.0   27.0                 -      -    54.0  27 4    28.1         -      -       -    554
Air-travexespenses                               Pertrp       1      1      -      -     -      2      3.5   3.5    3.5        -       -      -      7.0   35       3.8       -      -       -      72
tnitrepretrionul Tration                         Morth        6     6       -            -    12        1    6.0     60        -      -       -     12.0   61       6.2      -       -       -     12.3
IWnenalTrnsport                                  Month        6     6       -      -     -    12      0.5    30      3.0           -          -      60    30       3.1      -       -       -      6.2
Subtotl Agricultural cr    advI or                                                                                   129.5       -      -       -   2590  131.2   1347         -       -       -   2659
2. B  dnglAccounilng Speclaliat
Salary                                           Month        6     6       -      -     -    12       15   900    900         -       -      -    1800   91.2   936          -      -       -   1848
Subsistence                                      Month        6      a      -      -     -    12       4.5  27.0   27.0        -       -      -    54 0   27.4   28.1         -      -             55.4
Atr9ravel expenses                               Per trp      1      1      -I                  2      3.5   3.5    3.5        -       -      -      7.0   3.5    3.6         .                     7.2
Intrapretration adTridTsnatin                    Month        6     6          -         -    12        1    60      6.0              -       -     12.0   61       6.2      -       -             12.3
lndnelmTrTnaport                                 Month        6     6          -      -        12     0.5    30      3.0       -      -       -      6.0    30      31        -      -       -      62
Subtota BenkinglAccounting SpecIalist                                                                        129.5  129.5        -      -       -   259.0  131.2  134.7        -       -       -   2659
Subtotal Technical A"stance                                                                                    2590   2590    -                   --  518.0  2625  2693          -       -            531.8
Total                                                                                                      8453  2,629 3 3,576 0 3,525.0 2,1500  12,725.5  8617 2,881.2 3,865.3 3,5927 2,2395  13,4404       >
Wa Working cepia loans for sees, teblwer, cntE  machinery, anial feedc, tr.. upto 3 y.                                                                                                                              Z
lb Term credit for fim machinery, equipment & small  l agro-prmcessIeg  units - upto 7 year                                                                                                                         Z
vc Working capitl loans upto 3 years and tem credit upto 10 years with one time grnt of upto 50 % for commercialty viable community development activiet te
vd Term credit of upto 10 years wNh onre4me grant of upto 25 % of the hwestment requwed.



AZER8FlJAN REPUBLC
FAMt PRNVATIATION PROJECT
Tab 2.1. Ban  - &GNJMl C    e1cO  Form - Rnhob of M4xn Supp
& PFazlxd Fxm I & O Vt                                                                                   unit coot
DO^lsd Co                                                                            Qsalilbo                     N""                     x    ot{       0                     Totsh Including4C     n xgU5RC
UIm tk ma l     O 2 11t                                                                                   Tdd1h tZ1 o 20 ^ m 1U1 00_
LInwetmont Ctox
A. R       _NW o of knigatlon  rl Supply  OmD_ p Workx
1.  .0dhlm mp& n        On     pWaf                   L.umpsm                                                             30.0       -        -       -        -     30.0   34.7       -      -       -       -     34.7
2 Main lnd  Vb4U Supply PmV
Mbfl lNl urwop90 b )wNo.                                       .           3       *       -      .      3       10             30.0        -       -30.0                    - 35.9         -       -       -     35.9
3. DOotbn of Open Canal Systlom
a. Comb
mtxn Canals                                          Km
6CoadrCnlst                                          Kll                 4    4.5        *             .5   1.8Mt               7,5     x,4       .        .     15.9           11.1   13.2               -     24.3
TortryComi                                           VAm                 20    14.2             . 342    0.311           -       .2     4.4                      tee       -    913    o.9        -1ft.2
Prbol lCncxhe                                         Km                 5.3    5.3       -      * 10.S   0.311                 11.3     1,5                      29.3            2.    22.7                     45S
11. Drxbx
Collcin                                              Km           -      t    12.5       -      .   22.5   4.672         -    48.7    60 9                      I - 09.6   -   72 7   958         -            1- le4
FiltDrans                                            Km           '     2x   2 2                - 52.2   t.624           -    42.2    42.5        .               4,t           8 3.0   0688.                  129.9
S'xblebd rlms                                                                                                                    90.9   103.4                     1  94.4    .158        824        -       - 298.2
Su_OWDx  latbn ofOpe Cnal_ytm                                                                                                     108.3   117.9                .2-24.2         -158.7  1SS.1                  - 343.8
4. Rpk a Reo srao of kInplbn S_xb"
a. Ditibton Elex
Typeo1                                               No.0    .            2      2              .      4   2.181         .      4.3     4.3        -              86       -     5.6    5.8       -       -     11.4
Type.2                                               No           .      7       a                     1 3    1.405      *     9.t      8.4       -        .     18.3      *   12.8   11.3        -       -    24.1
Sutota istrbullb Box                                   N.           .       .      .       .      .       ,14.2    12;7                                            26.9           18.4   17.2                     35.6
b. Trdry  _oh
Type I                                               No.          .       5      5       -      .     10   0.425               2.1      2 1       -        -      43       -     2.8    2.9       -       -      57
Tye2                                                 No.          ,     20      20       *40   0.3811                    -      7.6      TO       -              152       -        99   10.3                   20.2 
SutoalTwry hbkxNos                                                         .9 a   .o .                                                                 .98 19.5             -     12.7   13.1                     253 Y
a. Canl Rqgukor
Typ I                                                No.          .      10     11 I                  21   0.275         .     2.5      3.0       -        -      5.8      -     3.6    4.1       -T-77
Subthbl Cana Regulator                                 N.           .       .      .       .      .2.8                                    3.0                       5.8            3.'   4.1                       7.7
dt. ToMy Odt
Type I                                               No.          -       -      -.                     - -                      -        -                -           -                   -
Type 2                                               No.     .           40     40       .            x    0.152         -      6.l     el         -             12 1          TV7    8.2         -16.1
Subtotal Tnriry Oudet                                                                                                8-         - I    T6 I                        12.1      -     7.9    8.2   _-                 1_.1
SuftIRqmr&R _twbudn o  inbd bn SU W                                                                                 -       -32.7    31.5                         6 4.4     *         42,    42.5                851 
5 RMblbtdnofSb-wndfdr~-e 
Omm nedWao-.dlzning      redpaIr                       Krnm               3.8      3       *             .e   1.464               se      4.4        -              o1.0     -    72       5.9      -        -    13 1
SW"p - ir WA recnstrion                               No.          .        17   1 0             -     27     0.e9        -      1.5     0 9        -       -      2.4      -     2.0    1.2       -              32
Sublotal R MbxU8taon ofSub-oudac edrlnage syst m                                                                             .      7.1     5.3        -       -     12.4            9.2   T                        16 3
6. Corbndon of Nxw Cxab
ttainCanl                                              Krn
Twy"C   al                                             Km                  I s    15       .      .     30  12.236         . 183.5   183.5          -        - 367.1         -249.0  257.9          -            soe
SubtohtelConntucddof No wCnobs                                                                                                    183.5   183.5       -        - 357.1             24 .   257.9       -       - 503.8
r. constuton ofdw  a" blpbn O     akw
Twby bbkes                                             No,                 25     25                     so 5    0 soe           12.7    12.7        -       .     25.4      . 16.5   17.1          -       -     33.5
Cans Reglaor - Type I                                  No.          -       5      5       -      -      10   0.307        -      1.8     1.8-1                     3.7      -     2 4    2.5       -        -     4.9
Cm noRgorw- Typex2                                     No.     .            5      5       .      .      10   0.UO         .      0.9     0.9        .       .      1.9      -     12      1.2                     2  25
Tory"OuLt- Type2                                       No.     .          40      40                     80   0.202               1     _        _I                18.2      - 10.5   10.9          -       -     21 4
Sutoa Construction of nm khvptotn Bucu                                                                                             23 8    23.                 -    47.1            30 8   311 7                     2.4
ToXbvxwetinentCet l                                                                                                           30.0  30832    331 9         -       .775.1  -34.7  52.            44                -  t,085,0
N. , xwm  C"tx
Opemon d1 hsiptlon and Dr inage Wo*v                     Amwun                                                                                        ,, 3,  |   3.0     Te       -                    5 a     0.     I I'                     >
Ml"w m o _dnUn   dOnhWo                                  Anxur                                                                 ,                      31.6   3J.       03.0      -       .      . 48.s    50.2    908 
Supervisio    n o   4m&        orks                     Lu m .p-                                                                     10.0    10.0        .       .    20.0       - 14.3   15.0          .       .    29.4 
ToRecutrrnt Coef                                                                                                                 '    '      '   3T5'3    35'3   -905           - 4 43    15.0 F 54.4    56.2   140.0
ToMx                                                                                                                   00 33    371.9    35.3           3,               4T502 T               5.       62t2 



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Tabb 2.2. Lenkeran - Narmnnov Stats Farm - Rehabilitation of Main
and Privatized Farm I & D Work                                                                           Unit Cost
Detiled Cot                                                                          Quanthte                      sUS$              Bas Cot USS '000)                Totals Inctuding Contingencies (USS '000)
OiiFt   19_7    1M      1m9   2000   2001   Total    '000)   1n17   11"s   1m    200   2001  Total  1997   1M    1999  2000   2001    Total
1. Investnmnt Coats
A. RehablitUllorn on Iof rraon Water Supply & Drainag Works
1. Design of rriation & Drainage Works               Lump-sum                                                           30.0      -      -      -      -   30.0  33.2       -      -      -       -    33 2
2. Desllt Uon of Open Canal System
a. Canals
Main Canals                                         Km                                                                 -                                  -      -
SeconKaryCanals                                     Km          -     1.9    3.8                      5.7   1.865      -    3.5   7.1                  106       -    5.3  11.1       -       -    164
TertiwyCanab                                        Km          -       7      1t               -      22   0.311      -    2.2    4.7      -      -    68       -    32    7.3       -       -    106
Subtota Canals                                                                                                                57   11 7      -           17.5      -   85   18.5                -    270
3. Repair & Reconstructon of IrgtIon Structurfs
a. DistrbutIon Box
Type3                                               No.          -      2       3       -       -       5   095        -    20    3.0       -           50            26    40        -         -   66
b. Canal Regulator
Type2                                               No.                 7      14       -              21   0.139      -    1.0    19       -      -    2.9      -    1.3   2.6       -       -     3.9    LA
Subtotal Rpar & Raconston of inrlgaUon Sbwltura                                                                            -    30    49        -      -    79            39    66        -            10.5
4. Rehabtiaidlonof Hydrant System
Pipe Lino -C leankg nrepalr                           Km          -       3       8           -          11   5631       -   169   450        -      -   619       -   220   606        -       -    826
Hydrants - Rplosemnt                                  Km          -      13      27               -      40   0.143      -    1.9    3 9                  5 7      -    2.4    5 2      -       -     7 6
Subtotal Rehabilitation at Hydrant Systm                                                                                   -   t     48489              -67T         -  24.4  65.8        -       -    902
IL Conslbucon of new Irrigaton Structh
IntalcWeir                                            No.         -       1               -       -       1  13.041      -   13.0                    -   13.0          170       -      -       -    170
Storg eservow                                         No.         -       1               -       -       1  10.023      -   10.0      -      -      -   10.0      -   13 0      -      -       -    13.0
Subtotal Construction f new Irgation Structu                                                                               -   2.1              -      -   23.1      -   300       -      -            300
TotalItwCeatm5nt costa                                                                                                                                      -141   33.2  66.7 90.9            -           1909
N. Recurrent Costs
Operamtonf inigtion and DraingeWorks                    Amount                                                               -            .4   1.4    1.4   4.3               -   21    2.2       23      66
Maitenae of Irrigation end Drtn  Wor                    Amnr                                                                 -      -   4.4   4.4    4.4  13.1                -   6.6   6.7       7.0    20.3
Supevsi  of Irigtion & Dronage Wt                      Lunp-rn                                                                   10.0  '10.0      -      -   20.0          13.7   14.4      -       .    281
Totl Recurrent Casts                                                                                                           -   100  17.8    5.8   6.8  37.4             13T.T  23.1    8.9      9.2    55.0
Total                                                                                                               3                     5



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 2.3. Salyan - She"ag Colctve Farm - Rehablitation                                                Unit
of Main Supply a Privtized Farm I & D Vroa                                                     Cost
Detailed Costs                                                           Quantities                 (US                Se Bs Coat (USS 00)                 Totals Induding Contingendes (USS X0)
UnIt   1W,7  1S9  1i99  2000  lOCi  Toa    0003   1397   1M    11m   2000  2001   Total   1197   1IM    1M                2000   2001   Total
1. Investnent Costa
A. Rehabtitaton of In1gathn Supply & Drainage Works
t. Design of kgttion & Dreh gbtulra             umap-sum                                                   30.0       -      -      -      -   30.0   30 2        -       -       -      -   30.2
t DeIadion of Open Canal System
a. Cals
Main Canals                                   Km       7.7   7.7              -      -  15.4    3.73   28.7    28.7      -      -      -   57.4   39.6   42.9         -       -       -   82.5
SeooondaryCanals                              Km      11.5  11.6                    -  23.1   1.865   21.4    21.6                     -   43.1   29.6   32.3         .       .       -   61.9
Ttiary Canal                                  Km      38.5  38.4       -            -  76.9   0.311   12.0    11.9                     -   23.9   16.5   17.8         -       -       -   34.3
Subtotal Canals                                                                                          62.1    62.3      -      -          124.4   85.7   93.0        -       -       -   178.7
b. Drains
ColectDors                                    Km        16   15.7      -      -     -  31.7   4.872   77.9    76.5       -      -      -   154.4  107.5  114.2        -       -       -  221.7
FieldDranWs                                   Km        58   57.3                       1 .  *  115.3   1.624   94.2    93.0  -        -   187.2  129.9  138.9        -       -       -  268.8
Subtotal Derans                                                                                         17T      169.5     -             -341.7  237.  2353 1                -    -    -  490.
Subtotad DealMan of Open Canal System                                                                     2343    231.8      -      -      -  466.1    323       0        -       -           6691
a Repar & Recona _ucfo of tlgion S      nuctur
a. Dltutrbuthon Box
Type I                                        No.        2      1         -          -     3   2.161    4.3      2.2         -         -    6.5    5.4    2.8         -       -       -    82 
Type2                                         Ho         9      8             -      -    17   1.405   12.6    11.2      -      -      -   23.9   15.7   14.6         -       -       -    303
Subtotal DIstrIbution Box                                                                                t7.0    13.4      -      -   -       30.4   21.0   17.4        -       -       -    38.4
b. Trtary Itkes
Type3                                         No.       36    37       -      -      -    73   0.319   11.5    118       -      -      -   233    142    15.3         -       -       -   296
c. Canal Regulator
Type                                          No.       13   712       .      .      .    25   0.275    3.6      3.3     -      -      -    6.9      44      4.3      -       -       -     8.7
Subtotal Repair & Restoration of Iigatlon Structures                                                        32.0    28.5     -      -      -   605    39.7   37.0         -       -       -   767
4 Constructton of new bengeon SStuctue
CanalRegulators-TypeI                           No.        8      7      -      -      -    15   0.367    29       2.6     -      -      -    55       3.8    3.5       -       -       -    73
Canal Regulator - Type 2                        No.        8      7      -      -     -    15   0.166    1.5       1.3     -      -      -    28       1.9    1.8       -       -       -     3 7
Tertiary Outlet - Type 1                        No.       50    50       -      -     -   100   0.293   14,6    14.6       -      -      -   29.3   189    19.8         -       -       -    38 8
TsrtlaryOutket-Type2                            No.       50    60       -                 100   0202   101       101      -      -      -   202    13.1    137         -       -       -   268
Subtotal Constructon of nw IOrrIgaon Structures                                                            2    - 88T !E         T.             57 8    37 8    388       -       -       -   76 6
Total Investment Costs                                                                                        3254   2889        -      -      -  614.4  430,6  422.0         -       -      -  852.6
n. Recurrent Costa
Operation of Irrigation and Drainage Works        Amounit                                                       -       -   4.7   4.7    47    14.2         -       -    6.8      7.0    72    21.0
Maintenance of Irrigation an Drinae Work          Amount                                                        -       -  30.0  30.0  30.0   90.1          -       -   45.1   46.3   47.9   1392
Supevison o lrrigation & Drainage Wksurnp-smn                                                                           -   10.0  10.0  10.0   30.0         -       -   144    14.7    152    44.3
Total Recurrent Cost                                                                                              -       -  44.8  44.8  448   134.3          -       -   663    680    70.3  204.5
Total                                                                                    8T6T  44.8   4T                                     4T    7448.        i       4 3666 3    68.0   70.3  1,057.2
z
z



AZERBAIJAN REPUBUC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 2.4. Udjr - Gulabend-tiatsi Co1ede Farm - Resb of Main Su
& PrFvate Farms I & D vork                                                                           Unit Coat
Detailed Costa                                                                      QuantItles                 (Us                Base Cost (US) '000)                      Totals Including Contingencias (US$l'000)
ni      19"?   IM    19n   2000  2001   Totl  '000)   1N7   199I8   19    2000    2001            Total    1"7    1998   19        2000    2001     Total
1. Investmnt Costa
A. Roh bIllton of Irrlgaton Water Supply & Drainage Wouks
1, n  gd lof slln & Dranp Woaft                       Lump-rum                                                      30.0       -              -              300    315                                          31 5
2. Daslltatlon of Open Canl System
. Caonws
MainCanals                                           Km          -      3    2.5      -      -    5.    373             11 2    93        -       -       205        -    1e7    14.6        -        -      314
SeConderyCanals                                      Km          -      4    8.4                 1 04   1.M65      -     75   119                 -       194        -     111    187        -        -      299
TertryCanals                                         Km          -    15   157        -      -   317   0.311             50    49             -            99        -     74       .7       -        -      151
Prtfabncated                                         Km          -      1    15                   2.5   0311             03    05         -       -       08         -     05      07        -       -        12
Subtobtl Canals                                                                                                      -    23 9   26         -       -       50 5       -    35 7    418        -        -      77 
b. Drains
Coiladors                                            Km          -    I1   123        -      -  233   4872         -    538   599         -       -      1135        -    800    941         -       -      1741
Subtotal Desittation of Open Canal System                                                                                   775   885                        1U40       -   1158   1359          -       -      2516
3. Reair & Resonatruction of Irrgaon Strucrs
a. DlstbutIon Box
TypeI                                                No          -      2      3                    5   2161       -     43    85         -       -       108              56      87        -        -      143
Type2                                                No                 4      4      -             0   1405             5.5    5         -       -       112              73      7                 -       149
Subtotal Distribution Boox                                                                                                  9    121                        22 0       -     29   16 3         -               29 2
b. Canal Regulator
Typeo                                                No          -    10    11        -            21   0275            228    30                          58              36      41        -           -    77
c. Tertiary Outit
Type I                                               No.               80      0                  120   0.219      -         13 2         -       -       2 3             17.1    17 7       -        -      34 8
Type2                                                No                s 8o    0o                 120   0152       -     91    91                         182        -    118     123        -               241
Subtotal Tertiary Outet                                                                                              -   22 3   22 3        -       -       44         -    28.9    30 0           -           58 9
Subtotal Rtepair eostruction ofd Iion St res                                                                               35074             -       -       72 4       -    454    50.4        -               9 85
4. RehablitatIon of Sub-uritf   drainage system
Drain cedol- dewr     wndropafr                        Km          -    53    53                    106   1.464      -    778   778         -       -      1552        -   1009    1045        -        -     2053
Sumpa-repairandrecontucton                             No,              192   192              -   384    009        -    173   173                 -       34 0            225    233                         458a
Sums - cornsrucson                                     No          -    40    40        -      -    80   0.343            13 7   13 7                       275        -    17 9    18 5                -      38 4
Subtotal Rehabilitaon of Sub-surfaca drainage system                                                                   -   108 6  108 8                      217 3      -    141 2   146 3                      287 5
5. Constuton of New Canals
MainCanal                                              Km          -      1      1                    2  222518      -    225   225                  -      450        -    293    303                  -      598
TatiaryCanal                                           Km          -    30    30        -      -    60  12238            3871  3871         -        -     7342        -   4772   4942         -        -     9714
Subtotal Construction of New Canals                                                                                        389 6  308                 -      779 2       -   5065   5248         -        -   1,031 0
6. Constuction of new Irigation Structuna
Tarbaryintakas                                         No                20    20       -      -    40  0o50         -    102   102         -        -      203        -    132      137        -       -      269
Canl ReguLato  - Type 1                                No          -      7      8      -            15   0.387      -     21    2 9                 -       55        -     3 3     4 0        -       -       7 3
Canl RaguAator-Type 2                                  No          -      7      8             -    15   0 86        -     1.3    1 5       -        -       28              17      2 0        -       -       3 7
TerinaryOutet-TypeI                                    No.         -    35    40               -    75   0293        -    102   117         -        -      219        -    133    158          -              291
Taty Oudiuet-Typa2                                     No.               35    40       -      -    75   0202        -     71    81         -       - I15              -     92      109        -       -      201
Subtotal Construction of new IrrigatIon Scts                                                                                314   34 4          ,-    -         7             40 8    48 3                       87 1
Total Investment Cosb                                                                                                   30 0    42 1  e-                  -   1,328.      315   849    9033 -318
iN. Rtcurrwn Costa
Opeaton of Irnigation and Draiage Works                  Amount                                                          -       -    4 3     4 3     4 3       12 8       -             6 0     8 1      8 3      18 4
Maindtnce of Irrlbon and Drainag Works                   Anmourt                                                                 -   280    280    28.0        84.1                -    392    402       41.5     1209
Supervison of irigaon & Drinmag Work                    Lump-sum                                                              10 0   10.0                      20 0        -    13 7    14.4       -       -       28 1
Total Racufrfnt Costs                                                                                                      -    10.0  423    323       323       11e9        -    137    59.5    483    478         1674
Total                                                                                    30 0                        Tes2  eg                                                                  T323 1,4 559e33982 7 8191



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 2.5. Xachmaz - Yergouz State Farm - Rehab of Main Suppi
& Pivatzed Farm I & D Works                                                                           Unot Cost
Detailed Costs                                                                    QuanHttes                     (USS                 Base Cost (USS '000)                       Totals Including Contingencies (US$00)
Unit    1997   1998   199    2000   2001   Total   '000)   1997   19S8   1999    2000    2001    Total   1997    1998    1999    200    2001                 Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Rehabilittaton of Irrigation Water Supply & Drainage Wor
1. Design of lmgaton & Drainage Works              Lump-sum                                                          300        - O                            300      315         -                                 31.5
2. Main Irrigation Water Supply Pump
MobileLiftPump90litersasec                          No.         -      1                              I-  1   1       -   15.0        -        -        -    15.0        -    17.9         -       -        -       17.9
3. Delitaidon of Open Canal System
a. Canals
SecondaryCanals                                   Km         10     10       -       -      -      20   1.865    18.6   18.6        -        -        -    37.3    25.7    27.8         -        -        -       53.63
TerbaryCanals                                     Km         25   24.6                           49.6   0.311     7.8    7.6        -        -        -    15.4    10.7    11.4                                  22.1
Prefabricated                                     Km        5 5.3    53      -      -       -    10.6   0311      1.6    1.6        -        -        -     3.3      23       2.5                                 4.7
Subtotal Canals                                                                                                    28.1   27.9        -        -              56.0    38.7    41.7                                  80.4
4. Repair & Reconstruction of Irrigation Structures
a. Canal Regulator
Type2                                             No         33     33                             66   0.139     4.6    4.6        -        -               9.2     57       60                                  11.7
5. Rehabilation of Hydrant Systems
Pipe-ines - deaning and repair                      Km         34   33.7       -       -      -    67.7   5.631   191.4  189.8        -        -        -   381.2   237.4   246.7         -        -        -     484.1
Intake structures reconstruction                    No.         3       -      -                      3   2.241     6.7       -                -              6.7      8.3        -                -        -        8.3
ReplacementofHydrants                               No.        90     90       -       -      -     180   0.143    12.9   12.9        -        .        .    25.7    16.0    16.7         -        -        .       32.7
Subtotal Rehabilaion of Hydrant Systems                                                                             211.0  202.6         -                     413.7   261.7   263.4         -       -        -      525.1
S. Rehablitation of Sub-surface drainage system
Drain collectors - cleaning and repair              Km          -     19   18.7        -      -    37.7   1464        -   27.8    27.4         -              55.2             36.2    36.9        -        -       73.0
Sumps-repairandreoonstruebon                        No.          -    34      34       -      -      68    0.09       -    3.1      3.1                       6.1        -      4.0      4.1                         8.1
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Sub-surface drainage system                                                                       30.9    30.4        -        -    61.3        -    401       410        -        -       81 1
7. Construction of new Inigation Strucures
Storage Reservoir                                   No.         1       -      -       -      -       1  10.023   10.0        -       -        -        -    10.0    12.4         -        -       -        -       12.4
Pumping Unit                                        No.         1       -      -       -      -       1  15.045    15.0       -       -        -        -    15.0    18.7         -        -       -        -       18.7
Subtotal Construction of new Irrigation Structures                                                                   25.1       -                              25.1    31 1         -        -       -        -       31.1
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                   298.8  281.0    30.4         -       -   610.2   368.7   369.2    41.0           -       -      778.8
II. Recurrent Costs
Operabon of lmgabon and Drainage Works                Amount                                                               -    8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0    32.2        -    11.5    12.1    12.4    12.8          48.8
Maintenance of lmgabon and Drainage Works             Amount                                                               -   27.3    27.3    27.3    273    109.4          -    39.2    41.1    42.1    43.6         166.0
Supervision of tlrgiox & Drainge WoQrs               LuMP-sULM                                                          10.0   10.0    10.0        -        -    30.0      12.8    13.7    14.4         -       -       40.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                     10.0   45.4    45.4    35.4    35.4   171.6    12.8    64.4         67.5     54.5    56.4      255.6
Total                                                                                                           3088   326.4    75.8    35.4    35.4   781.8   381.5   433.6   108.5    54.5    56.4    1,034.5
z
z



AZERBAJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRtVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 3.1. Community Deveopment                                                                  Unit
Detailed Costs                                                                                  Cost
Quantll                  fUSS                 i. Cost (USS 00                      Total Including Contingencies USS '000)
Unit   1997   199t  im    2000  2001  Totb  '000)  1997   19e"    1ff    2000   2001   Total   1997   19            195    2000   2001   Total
1. Investmnt Costa
A. Oue rsnoawtlona and fumiture
Olbe Furniture                             Lump-rum      1      -      -      -      -     1      3    30                                     30      33        -       -                    33
Ofice Renovations                          Lxnp-mi                                                     3.0    3.0                -            6.0    3.7    3.9         -      -       -    7.5
Subtota Ofice renovations and fumiture                                                                    T     3.0            -  -    -        90      7.0    3.9        -      -       -    10.9
IL Computem and off_c equipwet
Computer                                    Number       1      -      -      -            1    3.5    35        -       -       -      -    3.5    39          -       -      -       -    39
LoserJet Printer                            Number       2      .      .                   2    1.2   2.4                -       .            2 4     2.7                       .            2 7
FaxMartne                                   Number       I                       -         1      1    1.0            -      -          -    10       1.1               -       -      -     1.1
Photocopoer                                   No.        I                                 I -  -  -  1  5  0    -               -            5.0    5.6        -       -              -    56
Subtota Compute  nd oo equlpnt                                                                           11.9      -               -           11    13.          -       -      -       -    133
C. Vehicles
Vehide                                        Nos        2      -      -      -      -     2      8   16.0       -       -       -       -    160    17.8       -       -                   17 8
D. Dev. of Rural Busress Centers             Lumpeum                                                   100.0  150.0  150.0         -          400.0   1014   156.0  159.9        -       -  4172
E. Training
StaffTraining                                 Nos        -      9      -     9            18    1.5      -   13.5        -   13.5       -   27.0        -    140        -    145       -   288
CommunityLevelOrganizers                     Nos          -    1       s 18  9       -    45    0.3      -     5.4    5.4    2.7        -    13.5       -    56       5.8    3.0       -    143
Worlshops                                     Nos               I      1      1      1     4    0.8            0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    3.2                0.8    0.9      09     0.9     35
Subtota Training                                                                                           -    19.7    6.2    10        0.8   43              20.5    6.6   18.6    0.9   46.6
F. Project Pration - social deveopmnt        Lump-um                                                   100.0  200.0  100.0         -      -  400.0  100.0  2000   100.0          .       -  4000
Total Invstment Costs                                                                                    2.9- 372.7   256.2   17.0    0.8  880.6  239.4   380.3  2665    18.6  0.9   9057
N. Recurrent Costs
A. Salae  end Allowances 
Community DevIpmntCoordeator                Noyew        -      1      1      1     1      4   0.36      -    0.4    0.4    0.4        04      14       -    0.5      05      0.5    05      2.0         
Communiy Deveopmen Advisor                  No.Ier       -      1      2      2      1     6   0.36      -    0.4      07      0.7     04     2.2       -    0.5    1.0    1.0    0.5        30
FiJ dSteff                                 NosYs         -      9      9      9     9    36   0 24       -    2.2    2.2       22      2.2    8.6       -    3.1    3.2    3.3        34    131
Travel ANowance                            Lump-sum      -      I      1      1      1     4    1.8      -     1.8    1.8    1.8       18      72       -    23       25      2.5     26     99
Trnv Alowance - Workshp                    Lump-sumr            1      1      1      1     4      1             1.0    1.0    1.0      10      4.0           11.4     1       1.5     16     6.1
Subtotal Saldeb and Allowances                                                                           -       5 7     6.0    6.0    5.7   234        -       7.8    8.7    8.9       87    341
I. Suppil and Equipment
Ofics Supplies                             Lump-sum       -     9      9      9     9    36    1.8       -    16.2   16.2   16.2   16.2   64 8          -   20 2    20.7   21.2   216    84.0
Olioe Mantenan                            Lump-am                                                      2.0    2.0    2.0      20      2.0   100      2.6    2.9    3.0    31         3.2   14.8
Totai Recuffnt Costs                                                                                                      24.2 224.          23.9   93.2    2.6   309    32.4   33.2   33.7  1328
Total                                                                                                  235.9  396.6  280.4   41.2   24.7  978.8  242.1  411.2  298.9   51.8   34 6  1,038 6
z
z
tTi



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Table 4.1. Pro(oct Managemwnt Unit - Baku                                                                  Unit
Detailed Costs                                                                                             cost
Quantlts                    ,US)             Bas Cost MU$000                   Total Incduding Contingencies (USS'000)
Unit    1017   1196   11fl  2t00   2001   Totl   000    11197   iW8   191    2000   2001   TotUl   1991 199   1991   2000   2001    Total
1. Investmnent Costt
A. Compute  nd ofico equipnwnt
Computer                                         Number        1       -      -      -      -      1    3.5   3 50                                 350   390                                    390
LaserJetPrinter                                  Number        2       -      -             -      2    1.2   240        -          -          -   240   2.68       -              -      -     268
FaxMachhs                                        Number        I                     -             1       1   1.00      .      -       -          100   1.11              -       -      -     111
Photocopier                                        No.          1                                  1       5   5 00                     -          5 00   5 57              -      -   _          57
Subtotal Computers and office equIpennt                                                                         1190       -      -              -  1190   1327       -                          1327
S. Oficc renovatons and tumnturr
OfllceFFumitrs                                  Lump-sum        1             -      -       -     1       3   3D00      -                         300   334                                    334
Office Renovations                              Lump-aurn                                                      3 00   3.00       -      -      -   6.00   3.65   3 86         T-      -         751
Subtotal Oice renovations and furniture                                                                         600   300                       -   9 00   6 99   38         -      -      -    1085
C. Vehicles
Vehicle                                            Nos         2       -                           2       8  16 00      -       -      -      -  16.00  17 84       -                         17 84
D. TechnIcai Assistance
1. Privattzation SpectaiIst- land a nural properties
Salary                                          Month        6       -          -         -      6      15  9000            -     -          -  900  9122         -      -       -      -    91 22
Subststence                                     Month        6          -       -         -      8    45  2700         -      -              -  2700  2738        -      -       -           27 36
Air-travellexpenses                            Pertrip       2           -         -       -     2    3 5   7 00           -          -      -   700   709        -       -      -      -     709
Intrepretration nd Translation                  Month        6                                   6-  -   -    1   6 00        -       -      -   6 00   603       -              -      -     6 06
IntarnaiTransporu                               Month        6       -                           6    0,5   3.00                      -      -   3 00   304               -      -      -     304
Subtotal Privaization Specialist, land & rural propert!                                                      133 00      -3 -                  - 13300 134 80        -             -      -   134 80
Z Prlvallzmaon Specialist- legal aspects
Salary                                          Month        6                  -          -        6    590o00        -       -      -      -9   00   9122        -                         9122         5
Subsistence                                     Month                -      -      -                   4.5  27 00      -      -       -      -27 00  27 36        -       -      -      -    27 36 
Air-trave expenses                             Pertrip       2       -      -              -     2    35   7.00                -             -   700   7 09        -             -      -     7 09
Intreprstration nd Translation                  Month        6       -                           6       1   6.00          -      -          -   6.00   6.08                                  6 08
nternal Transport                               Month        6       -      -      -       -     6    05   300                     _         -   3 00   3 04              -             -     3 04
Subtotal Privatization Specalidst, lea aspcts                                                                13300                  -          - 133 00 134 80       -      -      -      -   134,80
3. Accounting and Financiat Specildst
Satary                                          Month        6       -      -          -         6      15  9000               -      -      -9000  91 22             -      -          -    9122
Subsistence                                     Month        8       -      *      -       *     e    45  2700         -       -      -      -  2700  27.36           -          -            2736
Air-travel expenses                            Per trip      2           -      -          -     2    3.5   7.00               -  -          -   700   709            -              -         709
hntrepretration and Translation                 Month        6           -      -          -     6       1   600       -       -      -      -   6 00   6 08          -      -      -         6 08
Internal Transport                              Month        6       -      -      -       -     6    0     300        -      -       -      -   300   3 04               -             -     3 04
Subtotal Accounting and Financial Specialist                                                                 133300                     -      - 133 00 134 80              -      -      -   134 60
4. Procurmrent Specialist
Salary                                          Month        6                                   6      10  60 00              -             -  6000  60 81               -             -    60 81
Subsistence                                     Month        a       -      -      -             tl   4.5  27.00                                27 00  27 36                                 27 36
Air-travelexpenses                             Per tnp       2           -         -             2    3.5   7.00               -      -          700   709        -              -             709
Intrepretration and Trnanslation                Month        6       -                           e       1 6    600                   -          600   6 08                                   6 08
ntemnal Trensport                               Month        6       -                           6    0 5   300        -      -       -      -   300   3.04   _                               3 04
Subtotal Procurnment Specialist                                                                               03                 -  -          - 10300 104 39        -                 -       104.39
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                   020               -       -        502 0  508 78       -                    -



E Trudnng
1. Foran  Tr_in
Prajad Maugae                                Lp-04A                                                       6000              -                50.00  50.68                                 50.68
Stuy tos for pojed Ofi m4 "Mind form uIsF  Laa m ISO.50   25.00                                                                              75.00  50.68  26.00                    -    76.67
Fam Prbbion                                  Ln-                                                          2000       -      -      -      -  20.00  20.27             -      -      -    20.27
Pftped Fkinc ianda5douIt                     Lmipl                                                        20.0   20.00                       40  20.27  20.60         -                   41.07
S*ttal Foei  TlIFiT                                                                                        14000  46.00       -      -      - 1850  141.89  46.79           -      -       168s68
2. hi-coun rbi
PwCed IniAMon Lb-_ h                               n                                                      20.00   5.00   6.00             -  30.00  20.27   5.20   5.33             -    30.80
Cmfpuar systumsr d dOabss                    LTIP-n                                                       12.00   5.0W   5.00                22.00  12.16   5.20   5.33      -            22.69
Subol hi-country a                                                                                          3200  10o.w   10.oo             -  5200  32.43  10.40  10.66 8                  5349
luiti Traii5g                                                                                                1700.U         1000   -       -    23700 T7432s7I9  10.66                      24217
P. MmilouI and Ev_nAlo 
1.Priftlo   cdigOfPrWheItjd IflPwn                                                                          2000  2000  20.00  20.00  20.00 10000  22.30  22.88  23.45  24.05  24.68   11735
2. Evuion oi pjqd ruts                         LaPem                                                        20.00  20.00  20.00  20.00  20.00 10000  22.30  22.68  23.45  24.05  24.68   117.35
Suboal MnHodng md EvaluUoon 40.00  40.00  40.00  40.0 0  4000fW- 44.59  45.75  46.90  48.09  49.37   234.70
Toat beebmn Costs                                                                                              747.90  96.00.00  4000  4000  975.90 765.79 106.80  57.56  48.09 49.37  1.027.61
L Recwmi Cast
A. Salwte
P.edaag                                           No          I      I      1      1       1     5    0.6   0.60   0.60   0.0   060   060   300   0.72   0 78   0.82   0.84   0.87           4.03
De    P,* dMlgr                                   No.         I      I      1      1      1      5   0.36   0.38   0.36   0.38   036   0.38   180   0.43   0.47   0.49   0.50   0 52         2.42
60nd Spedilit                                     No.         1      1      1      1       1      5   0.36   0.36   0.36   0.36   0.36   0 36   1.80   0.43   0.47   0.49   0 50   0 52      2 42
lrnI nSDritnagSpedItt                             No.         1      1      1      1      1       5   036   038   0.36   0.38   0.36   036   180   043   047   0.49   0.50   052             242
CredwSpe"t                                        No.         1      1      1       1      1      5   036   038   0.36   036   038   0.38   180   043   047   049   050   052                242
Pfcwnw6p Spedolist                                No.         1      1      1      I       1      5   0.36   0.38   0.36   0.36   036   0.36   180   0 43   0 47   0.49   0 50   0 52        2 42
Computer Specia                                   No.         1      1      1       1      1      5   0.38   0.38   0.36   0.36   0.36   0.36   1.80   0 43   0.47   0.49   0.50   0.52      2 42
AcctunUFsuir                                      No.         2      2      2       2      2     10   0.36   0.72   0.72   0 72   0.72   0 72   3.60   0.86   0.93   0.98   101   1.05       4 84
Transi-4ritar                                     No.         2      2      2      2       2     10   024   0.48   0.48   0.48   0.48   0.46   240   0.58   0.62   0.66   0.67   070         322
DrWer                                             No.         2      2      2      2       2     10   0.24   0.48   0.48   0.48   0.48   0.48   2.40   058   0.62   0.66   0367   0.70       322
Sub   Sa                                                                                                       4.44   4.44   4.44   444   4.44  22.20   5.32   5.76   6.06   6.22   6.45    29 82          O
8. hnw3y                                         Lump-im                                                       500   5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00  2500   5 99   6.49   6.83   7 01   7.26    33 58
C. Vehibb Oponding Costs in Ahbn                                                                              100W  1000  1000  10 00  10.00  5000  13 27  14.03  14.59  14 96  15 44    72 30
D. Office Supply ai Communzkibn                  Lump4ua                                                       5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00  2500   6.08   6.24   6 40   6 56   6.73    32 01
E. ti_                                            Arual                                                        2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00  1000   2.43   2.57   267   2.74   2.83    13.25
Totl Recurrnt Costs                                                                                             26.44  2644244  26.44  26.44 132.20  33.11  35.10  36.55  37.49 3871    180.96
Totel                                                                                                   774S  124.4 4.4 76 44           14##W9-T41.90  941-W0U.                         1,20857
As fndudes pec maiisnl, spar pts nad  hetwges.
z
z



AZERU    N REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Tb  4.2. Pmoe  lmplemetton Unis in Pr*d Ralons la                                                         Unit
Detailed Coest                                                                                           cost
Oumten                     (US$               Base Coet (US$ 000)                  Totals IndudIng Condingende (US$ 000)
Unit    _SO?   1300  119    2000    01   Toal  '000)  1            IM     IWf    2000   2001   Total   10"7    1         ffl   2000   2001   Total
L Invesamnt Coedt
A Coput md office equipmwnt
Compter-486M6                                  Number        2       3      -       -             5    3.5    7.0   10.5           -          -    17.5      7.8   12.0              -           19.8
LaweJetPrmar                                   Number        4       a      -                    10    1.2    4.8    7.2                      -    12.0      5.4    8.2      -                   13.6
Fax Macie                                      Number        2       3              -                    1    2.0    3.0       -       -             5.0     2.2    3.4                 -        5.7
Photk-pi-r                                       No.         2       3              -      -      5      5   10.0   15.0       -       -           25.0    11.1   17.2       -              -   28.3
Subtotal Comutes nd MUo equtpment                                                                               23.8   35.7       -      -            59.5    26.5   40.8                         67.4
IL Vehicles
Vehics                                           Nos          6      9       -         -         15      8   48.0   720         -                  120.0    535   82.4       -       -      -  135.9
C. Ocel renovatIon mnd fumiture
OMeo Rawtoor                                  Lurnp-sn                                                         6.0   15.0    9.0              -    30.0      7.3   19.3   12.0                   38.6
Offico FunTt                                  Lump-uin                                                         6.0    9.0       -                   15.0     7.3   11.6                          18.9
Subtotal OM" mnoeno  natIon ndumIbue                                                                             2.0   24.0 "                   -4    45.0    14.6   30.9   120            -       57.5
Toal heetment Coetn                                                                                             -38  131.7    9.0                      224.5    94.6  141   120-  260.7
1 RecArnt Costs
A. Salares
HOWdPIU- Chief ofAWO-kombirt                   No.1year      2       5      5      5       5     22   0.48    1.0    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    10.6        1.2    3.1    3.3    3.4    3.5   14.4
PrivatizotonSpecilt                            No.Ye,        2       5      5      5       5     22   0.38    0.7    1.       1.8    1.8    1.8      7.9     0.9    2.3    2.5    2.5    2.6   10.8
Land SPel                                      to.jYe         2      5      6      5       5     22   0.36    0.7    1.6    it.   '1         1.1     7.9     0.9    2.3    2.5    2.5    2.6   105
Irription& DnsmaSpecialist                     No./Yer       2       5      5      5       5     22   0.36    0.7    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8        7.9     0.9    23    2.5    2.5    26    10.8
Credt Specias                                  No/Year        2      5      5       5      5     22   0.M      0.7    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8       7.9     0.9    2.3    2.5    2.5    2.6   10.8
Lopl dpecilist                                 NoYear        2       5      5      5       5     22   0.36    0.7    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8        7.9     0.9    2.3    25    2.5    2 6    10.8
Compiiar Specslist                             No./Year       2      5      5      5       5     22   0.36    0.7     1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8       7.9     0.9    2.3    2.5    2.5    2.6   106          t 
Aauntant/Finarce                               No.Year        2      5      5       5      5     22   0.36    0.7    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.8        7.9     0.9    2.3    2.5    2.5    2.6   10.8
Seastary                                       No.IY*w       2       5      5       5      5     22   0.24    0.5    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2        5.3     0.6    1.6    1.6    17      17      7.2
Driver                                         No./Year       8     15     15      15     15     66   0.24    1.4    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    15.8        1.7    4.7    4.9    50      5.2   21.6
Ka.nives                                      Lump-stfrn                                                      10.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   110.0    12.0   32.5   34.1   35.0   36.3  149.9
Subtl S I                                                                                                       17     448   44.8   44.8   44.8   197.1    21.5   58.2   61.2   62.8   650  2686
8. Office Supply wid Communication              Lump-Sum                                                        10.0   250   25.0   25.0   25.0   110.0    122   31.2   32.0   32.8   337   141.8
C. Vehicle Operatig Coats                        Ainual                                                         180   450   450    450    45.0   1980         239   63.1   656   673    695   2895
D Utltlos                                        Annual                                                          4.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    44.0       4.9   129   13.4   13.7   142    590
ToW RecwTent Costs,                                                                                               49   124.8  124.4  1248   124.8   5491  62.4  1654 172.2  176.6  1823  7589
Totaol                                                                                   143 719.4    9176T.18                                                                                 2T3    T
%a PlUs wig be established In Salyan Ad Xacthnes n th firt yewr nd hin twd, Lnkoran, Ucar and Shroor nb  In aooond yoer.
z
z



- 103 -                              ANNEX I
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX I
SUBSIDIARY FINANCING AGENCY AGREEMENT
Between the Ministry of Finance of the Azerbaijan Republic (MOF) and
Agroprombank (APB)
Title Page
1.    Subsidiary Financing Agency Agreement (Farm Privatization Project) between the Ministry
of Finance of Azerbaijan Republic and Agroprombank dated.......................
2.    The Joint-Stock Agricultural Industrial Bank of the Azerbaijan Republic, registered in
accordance with the law "About Banks and Banking activities" in the National Bank of the Azerbaijan
Republic with the following address:
125 Kadirli Street
Baku 370099
Azerbaijan Republic
Telex: 142384 " Dinar S. U."; Fax: 98 27 37
as "Agent Bank" in the present agreement for the Farm Privatization Project; and Ministry of
Finance of the Azerbaijan Republic with the following address:
6 S. Vurgun Street
Baku 370601
Azerbaijan Republic
acting on behalf and for the Government of the Azerbaijan Republic.
Main Objective Of The Agreement
3.    The Ministry of Finance hereby intends to enter into a subsidiary financing agency agreement
with the Agroprombank (APB) to utilize a portion of the IDA credit and IFAD loan made to the
Government of Azerbaijan Republic for the purposes of providing credit to:
Privatized farm units emerging from the privatization process of Ghilinjili farm in
Barda raion; Narimanov farm in Lenkoran Raion; Shafag farm in Salyan Raion;
Gulaband-Hatai farms in Udjar Raion; Yergouz farm in Xachmaz Raion; and Sharur
farm of Sharur raion of Nakhchivan autonomous republic of the Azerbaijan Republic.
Agroprombank As An Agent Bank
4.    APB will function as an agent bank for the Ministry of Finance to channel a portion of the
funds received as credit from the International Development Association of the World Bank Group
and the International Fund for Agricultural Development. It means that the Agroprombank will not
take the financial and credit risks, as its present financial situation does not permit it to borrow from
IDA/IFAD/MOF. These risks will be taken by the Government of Azerbaijan Republic. The major



- 104 -                               ANNEX I
functions of APB acting as an agent bank will be: (i) on-lending, supervision and recovery to the
prospective private farmers/farming units that will emerge from the privatization process and meet
the eligibility criteria as explained in para 10; (ii) maintain proper custody of loan funds; (iii)
repayment to Ministry of Finance of the interest from the loans and reinvestment of principal
repayments for the first ten years; and (iv) the project loan funds should be separated from its own
resources.
Purpose Of Funds Provided To Agroprombank
5.    These are:
(i)    To utilize funds for stated purposes and activities required to fulfill agreed project
objectives. These are expected to be for: (a) working capital loans for seasonal farm
inputs such as seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, labor, fuel machinery services and
transport; (b) purchase of farm equipment and spares; (c) on-farm capital
expenditures for land and building improvements; (d) field level irrigation and
drainage works; (iv) small businesses and agro-industries processing the farm
produce; and (f) community development activities; and
(ii)    To appraise loans and projects as per IDA's and IFAD's guidelines and ensure that
viable activities meeting financial, economic, technical and environmental criteria are
financed.
Terms And Conditions For APB To Function As An Agent Bank
6.    The terms and conditions for APB to function as an agent bank are:
(i)    APB will receive commissions and fees for managing the credit line based on its
performance in disbursing the line of credit and sub-loan recovery from private
farmers. The fee structure will be as follows:
(a)    APB will charge a two percent appraisal fee up-front and receive an
additional annual commission of up to two percent to be collected from
interest paid by borrowers in cash on an arrears basis which will be approved
by the State Commission for Farm Privatization;
(b)    During the initial ten year period, the reflows to the APB from all sub-loan
principal repayments will be recycled and relent for the same purposes; and
the interest payments will be made to the Ministry of Finance during this
period to service IDA credit and IFAD loan; and
(c)    After the first ten years, the Ministry of Finance will review the situation and
formulate new arrangements as appropriate in consultation with IDA and
IFAD.
(ii)   Funds would be provided to APB from the special account set up for the project and
would follow IDA/IFAD withdrawal procedures as set out in the Development Credit
Agreement of IDA and IFAD Loan agreement.



- 105 -                              ANNEX I
On-lending Terms, Conditions And Loan Ceilings From Agroprombank To Borrowers
7.    These are:
(i)    Sub-loans to borrowers will be provided in manats at the twelve month manat rate
set by the National Bank;
(ii)   The sub-borrowers will repay in manats;
(iii)   APB in consultation with MOF will review such rates with IDA/IFAD from time to
time; not charge extra commissions, compensating balances, fees, etc. to increase
effective costs to borrowers beyond agreed rates and fees;
(iv)   Each sub-loan will be issued for a maximum period of ten years including a
maximum grace period of three years;
(v)    The maximum amount of sub-loans per borrower shall be (i) for working capital up
to US$500 per hectare; (ii) for farm machinery, equipment and small scale processing
units up to US$30,000; (iii) for land improvements and field level infrastructure
works up to US$1500 per hectare; and (iv) for community development activities up
to US$1000; and
(vi)   Each sub-loan will be subject to a right of suspension upon failure by the borrower
to perform its obligation under the agreement.
Grants For Eligible Borrowers
8.    These will be:
(i)    A one time capital grant of up to 25 percent of the land improvement/on-farm
infrastructure works would be provided to eligible borrowers;
(ii)    A one time capital grant of up to 50 percent of the total investment capital required
for commercially viable development may be provided to each beneficiary from the
project farms; and
(iii)   These Grants would be provided from the IDA credit by the Government of
Azerbaijan to eligible borrowers and will not be subject to recovery by
Agroprombank. The total amount of grants to be made available will be limited to
US$100,000 per farm (a total of US$ 600,000 for the project farms).
Sub-Loan Approval Procedures
9.    The raion level implementation unit, consisting of representatives of the State Land
Committee, State Irrigation Committee, Department of Agriculture, Water User's Association, local
APB branch and credit advisor would be responsible for approving sub-loans up to a maximum of
US$30,000, which have been appraised and found suitable for financing. Sub-loans amounting to
US$30,000 and above would need the approval of the State Commission for Farm Privatization.



- 106 -                               ANNEX I
Security Of Credit And Repayment
10.   Sub-loans will be extended on the basis of the following
(i)    Eligibility criteria of borrower: The following eligibility criteria of the borrower shall
apply:
(aj    Must have a title or certificate to the farmland;
(b)    Must have gone through the privatization process and operate as a
privatized farm unit or enterprise according to the Laws of
Azerbaijan;
(c)    Submit a business plan demonstrating  the economic and financial
viability of farm operations; and
(d)    Must be willing to follow IDA/IFAD procurement procedures; and
(ii)    Credit agreements signed between the Agroprombank and borrowers specifying
repayment amounts and dates;
(iii)   Appropriate security would be taken to protect the creditor's interest: The borrower
shall agree to provide: (a) a record of lien on registered land as collateral when the
Land law permits a formal mortgage of land; and (b) a lien on assets financed by the
sub-loan;
(iv)   APB will undertake all legal work to register security interest;
(v)    APB will maintain comprehensive credit files for each sub-loan; and
(vi)   APB will fully co-operate with external auditors employed to audit the credit line;
such auditors to be approved by IDA and IFAD.
Accounting Procedures
11.   APB offices at Baku and its branches in the five raions of Barda, Lenkoran, Salyan, Udjar
and Xachmaz will:
(i)    Implement accounting and management information systems to provide up to date
information on credit utilization and recoveries;
(ii)    Maintain separate project accounts for the borrowers in each of the project raions and
at Baku; and
(iii)   Provide annual audited accounts by an independent auditor who shall be appointed
early in the fiscal year to complete the audit within three months of the completion
of the year.



- 107 -                              ANNEX I
Terms Of Institutional Support
12.   APB will be strengthened in agricultural credit and banking procedures; accounting and
management information systems. APB will be provided with computers and related accessories,
office equipmenL and supplies, training and technical assistance. This institutional support of not more
than US$500,000, (Five Hundred Thousand US Dollars) from the IDA credit will be provided by the
Ministry of Finance to APB for a period of ten years at an interest rate of 0.75 percent and five years
grace for this purpose.
Review of the Agency Agreement
13.   This agency agreement between the Ministry of Finance and Agroprombank and the situation
of the Agroprombank would be reviewed in mid 1998 to explore whether it is appropriate to make
suitable modifications at that time, including making the envisaged restructured Agroprombank to take
the credit risk.
Termination Of This Agreement
14.   This agreement shall be suspended, cancelled or terminated if: (i) Agroprombank fails to
perform any of its obligations under this agreement; and (ii) funds made available to APB for on-
lending to eligible borrowers shall become due and payable to the Ministry of Finance according to
the agreed terms and conditions.
15.   This agreement is governed by and be construed in accordance with the laws of the Azerbaijan
Republic. This agreement is made in four duplicates, each of which is in original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives signed this agreement on.                 1996.
On behalf of the Agent Bank             On behalf of the Ministry of Finance
M. Musayev                                     F. Yusifov
Chairman                                       Minister
Agroprombank                                   Ministry of Finance



- 108 -                               ANNEX J
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX J
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Calabretta, S., K. Koshaj, S. Meenakshy. December 1995, Privatization And Social System In
Five Pilot Farms.
2.    Constitution of azerbaijan Republic, Adopted by a referendum on 12 November 1995.
3.    Government of Azerbaijan, 9 November, 1991, Land Code Of The Azerbaijan Republic.
4.     Government of Azerbaijan, " The law on Land Reform of Azerbaijan republic" law No: 166,
dated July 16, 1996
5.    Government of Azerbaijan, "The law on Kolkhoze and Sovkhoze Reform" Law No: 978, dated
February 18, 1995.
6.    Government of Azerbaijan, "The Law on Irrigation and Amelioration" Law No: 492, dated 14
September, 1996.
7.    Government of Azerbaijan, Resolution No: 10/1-143 dated 10 october, 1996, Regulations on
Determining Land Share.
8.    Government of Azerbaijan, April 16, 1996, Rights and Obligations of Republic, Raion and Local
Level Land Reform Commission.
9.    Government of Azerbaijan, 1994 (No. 1) (6). "The Law Of Azerbaijan Republic -- On Credit,
Finance, & Budget System". Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents
of Azerbaijan Republic.
10.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1994 (No. 2) (7). "The Law Of Azerbaijan Republic -- On Lease
and Peasant Farming" (in Azerbaijan language). Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative
Standards And Documents of Azerbaijan Republic.
11.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1994 (No. 11).  "The Law Of Azerbaijan Republic -- On
Antimonopoly". Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents of Azerbaijan
Republic.
12.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1994 (No. 13).  "The Law Of Azerbaijan Republic -- On
Ownership". Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents of Azerbaijan
Republic.
13.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1994 (No. 15). The Law of Azerbaijan Republic -- On Value Added
Tax". Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents of Azerbaijan Republic.



- 109 -                               ANNEX J
14.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1994 (No. 18). "The Cabinet of Ministers of Azerbaijan Republic
Resolution". Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents of Azerbaijan
Republic.
15.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1994 (No. 22) (27). "The Law of Azerbaijan Republic -- On Joint-
Stock Companies".  Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents of
Azerbaijan Republic.
16.    Government of Azerbaijan, 1995 (No. 24). "The Law of Azerbaijan Republic -- On Security
(Mortgage)". Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents of Azerbaijan
Republic.
17.    Government of Azerbaijan, 1995 (No. 25). "The Law of Azerbaijan Republic -- On Audit
Service". Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards And Documents of Azerbaijan
Republic.
18.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1996 (No.1) (29); Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards
And Documents of Azerbaijan Republic.
19.   Government of Azerbaijan, 1996 (No. 2) (29); Bulletin of A Businessman: Legislative Standards
And Documents of Azerbaijan Republic.
20.   Government of Azerbaijan, Government resolution on Land Normative and Evaluation
Procedures, Resolution No: 145, dated 17 October, 1996.
21.   Government of Azerbaijan, Government resolution on Saline Land Improvement and Usages,
Resolution No: 144, dated 17 October, 1996.
22.   Government of Azerbaijan, Government resolution on the Responsibilities of the Land Reform
Commission, Resolution No: 138, dated 8 October, 1996.
23.   Government of Azerbaijan, Government resolution on the Use and allocation of Pasture
lands, Resolution No: 146, dated 17, October, 1996.
24.   International Fund for Agricultural Development, April 1996. Farni Privatization project:
Formulation of IFAD Components.
25.   International Fund for Agricultural Development, April 1996, Farm Privatization Project:
Project costs, Financing, and farm Models of IFAD Componenits.
26.   Mission report of Mr. F.E. Shulze, "Azerbaijan Farm Privatization Project" November,1995.
27.   Mission report of Mr. T. MacNeill, " Land Registration and management System" July, 1995.
28.   Report on "Diagnostic Review of the Agroprombank" January 1996.



I



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 28120
RUSSIAN
G E O R G I A                         t BELAKAN                       FEDERATION
~~~~~'BELAILAN  's..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
''*  '-'JZAATA    ' ,                                                                             LACZ\                                                  FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT RAIONS
-          ,         ~~~~~~~AG TADAPROJECT FARM LOCATIONS
V^s , AFA  t < ( t <  @ PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
,- .9fj9 g  g   <;     oM,{R0c9flf '  1  SHEKI   )   7    <<~  GU8A      <        zINATIONAL CAPITAL-BAKU)
| ;r{'OF'7oVUY  >  9      -                           OGUZ                                                                                               -       RIVERS
I...                                                                                                                                          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AARAJON BOUNDARIES
-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
j/k    SHAIAKIR    SAKH
Y,   KEDAB  ANL AR                                 AGDASH R                                                                                                PROJECT FARM LOCATIONS
'N                          GLPANLOY                                            AKHSU          GORUSrA~N                                                      PROJECT        PROJECT
|o~                                                  A KECASES    ,S3,    / G S U S CO 5        U          S                      C           |     ARDA       GHILIINJIU
ARMENIA               L..                                                 B .      ARDA                                               ~SALYAN                                                          SHAFAG
KYUIZR                               O      RU                                       LENKORAN   NARIMANOV
RD B                                                                    V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DJAR  GULABAND-HATAI
XACHMAZ   YERGOUZ
KELBA ZHAR          HAGA                                                                                                                      SHARUR       SHARUR
S  -'   X   2:CHN    )C  V          W                 ;   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \ ~~~C  a  s p  ia  n                                        5  e  a
JHARU                               ) -        -' -C' FHAKZj                                       \ H.BASLVAZ
RABEA                   .          G           DZEBRAIL _                                                                    > n
O-)   CRDUSADRE    /;i1T-!S                          b                   WSALLY                                                                                 UKRAINE       I               V       KAZAKSTAN
RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
CLENKOA
,BIck Se
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN                                                                                       -                                                                             GEoRGA
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____I _ _ I                                  00,   J - --  N- 6
TURKEY 
IS ~ LAMIC
5.0. .RE_, ,_ -  '   '-'-'   ' -'''   k   1,  SbLSS   o   z   si  IRAN O *
DECEOOER 1990






IBRD 281 20
RUSSIAN
G   E  0   R  G   I A               t  BIE                        FEDERATION                                                                                          AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
'-.. '>p^ZAGATALA                                       9         S   >FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
,                         .*                                                                                                                           PROJECT RAIONS
. _ / AGSTAFA <> -                                                        /                                                                    ( i /-) @  PROJECT FARM  LOCATIONS
~~~~.  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    AGOTAFA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
- '-~' ' \ < ' ~ ' ~    i   k J  X   -  - - - g                    CUBA /    SHEKI    )   1  <   g  t{(NATIONAL CAPITAL-EAKU)
iovuz  ~~~~~~~~~~                    OG~~~UT                                                                                        -<   RIVERS
><w<+,. g TOVUi ,< / tA t OGUZ g < fflSIAZAN \ RAION BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~RAON OUNDRIE
/ A                                                                                  -  INTE2NATnONAL BOUNDARIES
SHA            M                                                 6ZY
!9 { KHANLAR )                                                                    %                                              3eA AGDASH  t  <  \}  X ST, PROJECT FARM LOCATIONS
_ " HKEDASEKX  Y          C vGERANBOY                                      AKHSU          GOBUSTAN                                                   PROJECT       PROJECT
RAIONS        FRMS
-' . \ ,> ( t k / f ts \r { UDJAR                                                           B f )    <( @ $ @ RARDA  GHILIINJIU
ARMENI A            L.Le                                               A -D            (                                                                                         SALYAN    SHAFAG
Sev=n   0      ' >         5    /    TARTAR-~)             ,     -    1    KYURDAMIR <  %    /  tJ   ABSHERON    BAKU                                     Ci)LENKORAN  NARIMANOV
ij                                                       RD> <   IB   )        t   ~    H A GIK A A      1X                                        3  UDJAR    GULAAND -HATAI
HAGIKABUL                                    X~~~~~~~~~~ACHMAZ   YERGOUZ
j KELBADZHAR     [         AGDAM                                                  (                                                       ) AnDZHEBEDI SHARUR    SHARUR SE
9                                        \   / .              KHOD'HALY<          )          J       ISH       t        
N s;Arui ~ / 1~~1-X{>$lrAsF                                                                                                                        C a ssp ia n S e a
SHARUT                                                              \  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIYASUVAR
,)      g        f  a~~~~~AKHBUZ)GU                           A     L     >     F                                   C                                                                           r      I71o0U.lbWR
t BABEK ff -; \ CsDZEBRAIL-                            \                                                                                <                                         d  ETHL\f   =w_wr.w  
tIfitz  C)-DZHULFfiA )  5   f  },>/@_    t               \               I<  ZHALLAAA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<)  (ORCUSALA,                                                                                                                                              L<P t<  A A L )      KAINE  _I  V}  KAZAKSTAN
RUSSIAN 
FEDERATION
-                                                                                                 EIi,  LERIK   )  (i) |  Sla,E SIa
ISLAMIC   R E P U B L I C  OF  IRAN                       )                                ,sSPa
a,k.
TURKEY           !'T'Z
REP OF
.15 , .    >   ,50-       -                       ASYRIANKABREP1   RAG    IRAN
.                                                                                              .    S               __   .                                           DECEMBER Isv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DC.ER19






I



I MAGING
Report No:       15910 AZ
Type; SAR



