              Document of
          The World Bank




                                        Report No: 29509

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (IDA-29330 COFN-03910 PPFI-P9910)

                ON A

               CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION

               TO THE

        AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

                FOR A

    FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT




             JUNE 15, 2004

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Manat
                       1 Manat = US$ .0002037
                         US$ 1 = 4909 Manat

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -    December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

            AAS             Academy of Agriculural Sciences
            ASDAPAgency for Support to the Development of the
                            Agricultural Private Sector
            ABP             Agroprombank
            FSU             Former Soviet Union
            IDA             International Development Association
            IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
            MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
            MOE             Ministry of Economy
            MOF             Ministry of Finance
            PIU             Project Implementation Unit
            PMU             Project Management Unit
            PPF             Project Preparation Facility
            SA              Special Account
            SIC             State Irrigation Committee
            SLC             State Land Committee
            SOE             Statement of Expenditures
            WUA             Water Users' Association



                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
      Country Manager/Director:      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
       Sector Manager/Director:      Benoit Blarel/Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Thirumangalam V. Sampath

                                AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
                                 Farm Privatization Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              36
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            45

Project ID: P040544                                                  Project Name: Farm Privatization
Team Leader: T.V. Sampath                                            TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Farm Privatization                                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-29330;
                                                                                                     COFN-03910;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9910
   Country/Department: AZERBAIJAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (75%); Irrigation and drainage
                            (17%); Sub-national government administration (5%); Other social
                            services (3%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Land management (S); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/25/1995                                     Effective: 04/16/1997                05/20/1997
     Appraisal: 04/10/1996                                         MTR: 10/01/1999                  11/01/2000
      Approval: 01/16/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:      Agency for Support to the Development of the Agricultural Private Sector

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Benoit Blarel                                  Michael Gould
Team Leader at ICR:             T.V. Sampath                                   T.V. Sampath
ICR Primary Author:             T.V. Sampath; Lucy M. Hancock


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
project was considered as at risk during the early statges

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Farm Privatization Project (FPP) was prepared in the mid-1990s, following Azerbaijan's
"second independence" in 1991 and the very difficult period that followed, during which
Azerbaijan faced the problems of transition to a market economy, a costly undeclared war, and a
huge population of refugees and displaced persons. By the end of 1995, measured GDP stood at
about 34 percent of its 1988 value. Agriculture, accounting for about 30 percent of GDP in 1990,
declined by about 43 percent.

In 1995, with the political situation gradually stabilizing and prospects improving for a peaceful
resolution of the conflict with Armenia, the Government decided to embark on a reform program
to stabilize the economy and accelerate structural reforms. Among the reforms was an effort to
privatize agricultural land. A Land Reform Law was passed in 1996 to establish the right of
former state and collective farm workers to own the land they worked. But ownership rights
were fuzzy and a framework for implementation of the Land Reform Law was missing.

The objective of the Farm Privatization Project was to assist the Government in accelerating land
privatization and restructuring of state and collective farms and to develop models for farm
privatization in pilot areas that could serve as a basis for wider geographic replication.

Complementary activites to achieve the objective were to: (a) launch of services essential in
support of private agriculture: land registration and titling, farm information and advisory
services, credit access, and irrigation rehabilitation; (b) development of an enabling environment
for land privatization; (c) development of community-based social services and formation of
village groups to promote equitable and efficient implementation of the privatization program.

Project objectives corresponded to the Bank Group's 1996 Country Assistance Strategy, which
set out the Bank's support for reforms intended to ensure that economic efficiency and
competitiveness were enhanced. In this area, the focus of the Bank during the CAS period was
specified as agriculture, especially because of the many opportunities to expand output and the
incomes of Azerbaijan's poor. Emphasis was to be on creation of land markets and accelerating
privatization of state and collective farms within an appropriate legal framework,
demonopolization of input/output channels, design of a rural credit scheme, and rehabilitation of
basic infrastructure and dilapidated irrigation and drainage systems.

The project's objective was ambitious, seeking to effect true land privatization that would devolve
full responsibility for farm management to individuals with full land rights and formal,
unambiguous titling. No countries of the CIS had then achieved this; even now, few other than
Azerbaijan have approached it. The pilot approach limited risk in that achievement of the project
objective did not depend on the timing of nationwide reforms.

The project was complex in that, besides activities on the national level, it envisioned four
components each to be implemented in six pilot locations.            Within each pilot, the project
envisioned interlocking policy and institutional improvements, each challenging, that were unlikely
to succeed individually.      For example, only farmers granted title would have access to the



                                                  - 2 -

project's rural credit funds and/or be able to join Water Users' Associations (WUAs); at the same
time, broad participation in the credit program and the WUAs was required for their success,
which in turn were key elements of long-term sustainability of the pilots. The interdependence of
the project's initiatives posed a significant risk. However, this element of risk was introduced
deliberately as a means of increasing local pressure for the success of the whole.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
A. Farm Privatization Support Services (US$20.0 million, of which US$10.1 million IDA,
US$7.2 million IFAD.
Component A comprised launch of support services for private farmers: land titling, market
information, support for development of Water Users' Associations, and rural credit. (a) The
land titling subcomponent aimed to ensure that titles were technically clear, certain and
transferable, facilitating land transactions and use of land as collateral.       To that end, this
subcomponent financed development of a technically sound registration and cadastre system. (b)
The Farm Information and Advisory Services (FIAS) subcomponent aimed to close the
information gap for newly-private farmers and entrepreneurs, providing them agricultural
extension services and marketing and legal information. (c) The Water Users' Associations
(WUAs) support component aimed to remedy the tenuous financing of operations and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage infrastructure by promoting associations of private farmers
to help manage the infrastructure, collect water charges and undertake maintenance. (d) The
Farm Credit subcomponent aimed to provide credit to finance farming inputs. This component
was designed to support the project objective both by encouraging workers on the state farms in
the six pilot areas to risk privatization, and also by providing a laboratory for development of
Azeri models for farmer support services.

B. Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation Water Supply and Drainage Works (US$5.5 million, of
which US$2.43 million IDA, US$1.49 million IFAD).
Component B undertook rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage works needed for adequate
water supply to the pilot farms. Most of the irrigation systems are gravity-fed; some portions of
the farms are equipped with pumping facilities that supply water to irrigate higher lands or to raise
the water pressure in closed pipes for sprinkler irrigation.          In 1996, the systems were
deteriorating, constrained by dilapidated infrastructure, non-functioning pipelines and blocked
drainage systems. Participatory work undertaken during project preparation highlighted that
irrigation infrastructure was configured for operation of state and collective farms, and as a result,
did not guarantee access to water for all parts of the state farm. In this situation, farm members
were inclined to reject distribution of the state farm in the form of plots (or might persist in a
communal management style after formal privatization), out of fear that some would receive
unwatered plots not able to provide livelihoods.          Therefore, reconfiguration and general
rehabilitation of the water supply was a condition of privatization. This component aimed to
undertake rehabilitation and reconfiguration to assure that every parcel distributed in the pilot
farms would be watered. Like Component A, this component was designed to support the
project objective by encouraging workers on the state farms in the six pilot areas to risk
privatization.


                                                 - 3 -

C. Community Development (US$1 million, of which US$0.4 million IDA, US$0.6 million
IFAD).
This component was designed in light of lessons learned during the transition, as the project
preparation team ­ the Government of Azerbaijan, the pilot farm members, the Bank and IFAD ­
sought to avoid a negative effect on those who would not be able to earn a living at farming: the
young, the elderly, the sick and any whose farm labor would be found excess to the labor
requirements of rationalized farms. These had formerly been the joint responsibility of the state
and of the farms. To secure livelihoods to people in these categories, this project component
aimed to develop suitable non-farm economic opportunities in rural areas.

D. Project Management and Implementation (US$2.3 million, of which US$1.78 million
IDA).
This component financed project management. An important feature was the decision to ensure
that each of the six pilots would have a Project Implementation Unit that included staff
representation from all the affected ministries and state agencies: Ministry of Agriculture, State
Irrigation Committee, State Land Committee (SLC), Agrarian Reform Commission, and others.
The purpose of this requirement was to promote distinction of responsibility for emerging legal
issues on the spot among the affected agencies. The PIUs for this project were therefore designed
to remedy the diffusion of responsibility in the yet-unsettled legal situation by incorporating staff
and liaison from all affected agencies. This component also promoted training and capacity
building within the implementing agency, to promote sustainability of project-funded initiatives.

The project components thus were reasonably designed to promote the project objectives.
Component A incorporated lessons learned in other transition countries about the priority needs
of newly private farmers. It incorporated best practice and lessons about the formalities required
to render land reform irrevocable, sustainable financing of irrigation (via WUAs), on-the-ground
experience of farm advisory services, and support the remonetization of rural areas by providing
rural credit.   Component B incorporated specific Azeri issues concerning infrastructure; in
particular, the outcome of participatory work that showed the crucial role of infrastructure in
furthering reform. Component C aimed to shore up the reform against equity issues that have
emerged in other transition economies where privatization has benefited some and deprived others
of their livelihoods. A Social Assessment undertaken in 1997 verified the direct relevance of
Components A, B and C to the perceived needs of people living in rural areas.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project did not undergo major changes. Some financing was re-allocated between IFAD and
IDA, and both the irrigation and drainage subcomponent and the rural credit component were
expanded to new areas. The changes did not amount to a restructuring, and there was no
notification of the Board.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project quality at entry was satisfactory. (The current QAG process did not exist when the project
was formulated.) As noted above, the objectives were consistent with the Government's reform
program and with the Bank Group's CAS. The activities designed to promote the objectives
reflected lessons learned to date in other transition countries, participatory work, and relevant


                                                - 4 -

good practices.

External risks were reasonably estimated and mitigated. The project design took into account the
risk of policy vacillation through use of pilots. It mitigated the risk of capture of project benefits
by local elites through measures such as the linkage between credit access and land titling/WUA
membership. It took into account the risk posed by credit to smallholders by requiring that they
have training and gain experience with small loans before undertaking larger loans. Sustainable
financing of operation and maintenance of the infrastructure in which the Bank invested was
promoted through development of Water Users' Associations, making ongoing financing the
responsibility of farmers, those most affected by its success or failure.

A weakness in design was use of Agroprombank as agent for the credit program. Threatened
with shutdown in accordance with Bank and Government-supported reform of the financial
sector, Agroprombank did not have a long view of its best interests and did not invest adequately
in performance.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is highly satisfactory, as the project met or exceeded all its relevant objectives and has
achieved substantial development results, without major shortcomings. The main objectives to
support effective farm land privatization, to establish a new water management regime and to
improve overall farm income have all been achieved successfully. Azerbaijan developed the
necessary legal framework to clarify and finalize individual ownership rights to farmland. In
January 1997, the first land title was issued in Azerbaijan in the course of project preparation. By
mid-1998, a year into project implementation, formal land titling was complete in the six pilot
farms: 23,282 citizens living in 21 villages received in total 10,458 ha of cropland and orchards,
through distribution to male and female heads of 6645 families. Some families chose to work
together; thus, in the Gilinjli pilot farm in Barda district, 325 families have established altogether
53 farms.

The overall project was extremely successful: building on the success of the pilots, land titling
was rolled out nationwide -- using the FPP methodology -- and privatization as envisioned in the
Law is now 99.2 percent complete. An area of about 1.4 million ha is now privately owned, and
corresponding titles have been distributed to 869,785 families. In addition, ownership of home
plots has also been established through titling (a further 0.2 million ha). As discussed later,
privatization had a profound effect on increasing productivity and, in all likelihood, on reducing
rural poverty.

The works dealing with rehabilitation of the water delivery to former state farms and
establishment of WUAs very quickly kindled a lot of interest among farmers throughout the
country.   Although only 19 WUAs were provided with direct support, the development of
legislation and provision of basic training and TA to WUAs helped establish the first steps toward
user-driven water management. Today's 580 WUAs in the country, although still in need of
support, are a testimony to this effort.




                                                 - 5 -

Altogether, about 95 percent of all arable farmland has been privatized. Of the 2020 state and
collective farms in existence in 1996, 1979 were privatized, while 41 remained in public
ownership as seed-growing and pedigree cattle-breeding farms. As well, of each privatized farm,
about 4 percent was set aside by law as a land fund for resolution of disputes. The remaining 0.8
percent of arable farmland comprises about 6500 parcels of land that are on the border between
former state and collective farms and nearby municipalities that dispute the state/collective farms'
former ownership.

Distribution of farmland in Azerbaijan was completed very rapidly; most was complete by the end
of 2000. Azerbaijan's is the current record time for essentially complete farmland distribution, but
the implementation team deserves better praise than that, as no other country in the CIS has yet
substantially completed it at all. The rapidity of the farmland distribution process is attributable to
the process tested in project preparation, which was seen as fair and acceptable. On a given farm,
land was first divided into parcels estimated as nearly equal taking into account area and quality.
Then parcels were chosen by farmers, whose place in the selection queue was set by lottery. In
this way it was assured that those responsible for the preliminary division would do their best to
ensure evenness in value, not knowing which they themselves might receive.

The finalization of land rights brought about an immediate and very substantial difference to
productivity, even though prior to the project the liveliness of "private" farming had already been
noted despite the fuzziness of ownership rights.        Following formal receipt of land titles as
evidence of absolute ownership, people used land differently.         It should also be noted that
privatization facilitated shifts in the crop mix, as farmers identified better income opportunities.
There was a shift from cotton to sugar beet production; winter wheat was introduced; tea
production fell. Data from 2001 compared to that of 1997 shows that on the pilot farms,
productivity increased 250 to 300 percent. Country-wide, overall agricultural output rose a little
more than 50 percent from 1995 to 2002. (That is, the agricultural production index normalized
so that production in 1990 has index=100 stood at 55 in 1995, 77 in 2002.) Output growth from
1997 to 2003 is shown in Figure 1.

                Figure 1. Country-Wide Production Growth, by Crop, 1997 to 2003




                                                 - 6 -

                                    Production in Tons as Percent of 1997 Values
                                                                - All Azerbaijan -


          1000%



                                                                                                                           2003 Level
           500%
                                                                                                                           1999 Level



              0%

                                                    Fruit
                     Barley         Cotton                Garlic   Maize         Onion          Rice Sugar
                                                                          Melons                                    Wheat
                            Cabbage        Cucumber                                    Potatoes            Tomatoes

        Source: Agency for Support to the Development of the Agricultural Private Sector, 2004.

   Note:    As it is off this scale, note that fruit production in 1999 was 1460% of 1997 value. In 1999, it
            was about 1900% of 1997 value.

   Note:    The weak performance of cotton is attributed by the team to the fact that real privatization of
            the cotton ginneries has not taken place. Due to lack of competition among ginneries, prices
            offered to producers have remained low, with the result that private farmers have little
            incentive to produce cotton. Farmers have therefore switched out of cotton and into others
            more supportive of household incomes, such as sugar beet.

This advance has taken place in substantial year-on-year changes since 1997 (see Figure 2).
Although hesitant to present dramatic conclusions, the ICR team does in fact attribute a major
part of national growth in output to land privatization and titling. The other major influences on
Azeri agriculture over these years were regional drought and a worldwide drop in cotton and
wheat prices. Privatization and the linked reforms appear to have been the principal cause of
resumption in agricultural growth.

                                    Figure 2. Trends in GDP and Agriculture Value Added




                                                                         - 7 -

                                        Economic Trends in Azerbaijan 1992-2002


                                     5                     1.0


                                     4                     0.8Agr
                                                                               GDP (constant 1995
                                                                 Value         US$billion) - Left Scale
                                     3                     0.6
                                                                               Agriculture, value added
                                  GDP                                 Added
                                     2                     0.4                 (constant 1995
                                                                               US$billion) - Right Scale

                                     1                     0.2


                                     0                     0.0
                                      1992    1997     2002

                                              Year

                             Source: World Development Indicators, 2004

Official statistics for 2003 show rural poverty, at 42 percent, to be lower than urban poverty, at
55 percent. The IMF has credited the lower poverty prevalence in rural relative to urban areas to
the successful land reform and privatization (see Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the PRSP:
State Programme on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development [2003-2005], April 15,
2003, para. 27).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overview
As noted above, the project design anticipated that farm information support services would be
tested and developed on the pilot farms before national rollout of land titling. In the event, land
titling moved far ahead of schedule as other state and collective farms eagerly took up the
distribution model. But this posed a challenge, requiring that the implementation team establish
successful models for the support services very quickly. Newly private farmers would need
access to credit, support for maintenance of irrigation and drainage, access to advisory services,
and so on. For this reason, having achieved the project's primary objective of privatizing farms
within about two years, the Bank and Government is now devoting the rest of the project's
implementation period to privatizing farms nationwide and later in a phased manner to resolve
related issues.

Component A
Land Registration: Highly Satisfactory. The land registration component far exceeded its
objectives, which originally concerned only title issuance on the pilot farms. By now, as noted
above, the SLC has issued about 870,000 land titles, privatizing nearly all the land made eligible
by the Land Law. As well, this subcomponent undertook early work to address the issue of titling
non-arable rural land, transferring to municipalities ownership of pastures, social buildings and the
like. It began technical work (not yet complete) toward a unified land registration and cadastre in
cities as well as rural areas. The SLC now has 60 functioning regional and district offices,
equipped and staffed with trained specialists to handle land transactions. The number of land
transactions is rising. This subcomponent exceeded objectives in the areas of privatization,
sector policy (private land management), and institutional development (land titling and the
establishment of centers able to facilitate transactions in land ownership).


                                                 - 8 -

Farm Information and Advisory Services: Satisfactory. This component established a FIAS
unit in the Ministry of Agriculture in Baku. It produced and distributed booklets describing legal
and management issues facing private farmers, access to credit, appropriate crop production
methods and related topics, provided training and seminars for newly-private farmers, and
undertook testing and demonstration of new on-farm methods.              This component met its
objectives, both preparing and distributing information, and the institutional development
objective of incorporating a fully-functional FIAS as part of the Ministry of Agriculture.

Support to Water Users' Associations: Highly Satisfactory. This subcomponent's outcome
greatly exceeded the subcomponent objective of setting up Water Users' Associations in the pilot
farms.   Water Users' Associations have been set up on the pilot farms, distributing water,
managing water infrastructure, collecting water charges and mediating cooperation on water
issues among their members.        Water charges collected cover 100% of the cost of WUA
operations, including on-farm operations and maintenance.

Beyond the pilot farms, the WUA model has spread throughout Azerbaijan, such that by project
end, more than 580 WUAs have emerged, together covering about 725,000 ha, broadly modeled
on the WUAs of the pilot farms. As well, the Bank/Government team had made significant
progress in identifying and addressing the institutional requirements of this national movement:
enabling legislative framework, a national policy concerning devolution of infrastructure
ownership to WUAs, and so on. Suitable legislation was prepared and passed in Parliament, and
Azeri experts in WUA formation developed and deployed by the Ministry of Agriculture.

Rural Credit Access: Satisfactory. This subcomponent exceeded its objective of launching and
piloting rural credit access on the pilot farms. However, the credit initiative had a slow start;
initial demand was lower than expected. The Bank/Government implementation team made an
intense effort to uncover and address the risks and constraints perceived by farmers. The loan
application was simplified, the tax burden on private farmers made lighter. A ramp-up in lending
followed. But in 2000, cotton prices fell and at the same time Azerbaijan was affected by regional
drought conditions. In the aftermath of this, both repayment rates and the demand for new loans
dropped.     Yet although these difficult events slowed disbursement in the early years,
borrowing/repayment then rose again. Now, at project end, the credit component has fully
disbursed and is achieving repayment at a rate of over 90 percent (with reflows being made
available for new loans). It has achieved a good reputation for transparency in loan approvals
and, at the Government's request, has expanded into a broader geographical area, making
additional villages eligible.

At project inception, Agroprombank (APB) was selected as the agent for the credit program
because, even though state-owned, it was the only institution that reached into all major
agricultural regions. During implementation, a Bank financial sector operation recommended sale
or closure of APB, but a compromise was reached that allowed the firm to provisionally remain
open (and state-owned) to disburse credit on an agency basis.            However, because of the
uncertainty generated by this process, APB did not develop as an effective lending institution as
the central Bank decisded not to allow APB to undertake credit on its own account. The



                                                - 9 -

insitution eventually functioned as anticipated, but the process took longer than expected and in a
shape where it is not shielded from being potentially forced to lend for political reasons due to its
ownership status.

Component B. Irrigation and Drainage Rehab. Satisfactory. This component originally
aimed to rehabilitate irrigation and drainage infrastructure on the six pilot farms so that every
privatized plot would be watered and drained as needed to assure it was capable of providing a
livelihood. The projected irrigation and drainage works were carried out, improving irrigation
and drainage over an area of 11,499 ha. In 2000, IFAD funds were reallocated from other
components (see "Costs and Financing," section 5.4) to expand irrigation and drainage
rehabilitation to six additional villages in the same raions as the pilot farms. The additional works
improved irrigation over an area of 5,617 ha. It was to allow time for completion of these later
works that the project was extended for 18 months.                 Altogether, the project financed
rehabilitation or new construction of 553 km of irrigation canals/pipelines, 631 km of
collector-drainage systems, 16 lift irrigation (pumping) units, and 16 artesian wells. Works on the
pilot farms were completed successively in 1999 (Salyan, Sharur, Xachmaz), 2000 (Barda,
Lenkoran), and 2002 (Udjar). Additional irrigation and drainage works were completed during
the project extension and finished in 2003. All irrigation and drainage works wihtin the project
area are now complete and functioning as intended. A subsequent irrigation project currently
being implemented will further strengthen the sector under a nationwide program for WUAs and
irrigation rehabilitation.

Component C. Community Development. Satisfactory. In the project's early years, the NGO
selected under ICB focused more on deliverables such as setting up business centers and offering
training courses than on participatory work with vulnerable members of the rural population.
Following a 1997 assessment of the needs of vulnerable people on the pilot farms, the NGO
worked with community members to develop proposals for small-scale income-earning
enterprises. However, the proposals were not technically strong. The NGO's contract was
eventually terminated. A new international consultant was hired in spring 2002, who organized
community initiatives to improve the drinking water supply in six raions. This component met the
goals set out in the PAD (setting up business centers, carrying out a needs assessment, promoting
development of community groups), and is therefore evaluated as satisfactory. However, the ICR
team considers that had the NGO's terms of reference focused on off-farm job creation, the NGO
would likewise have focused more intently on measurable economic benefit.

Component D. Project Management. Satisfactory. Project management was a decisive factor
in the success of the project. At the national level, the Project Management Unit in Baku was
responsible for planning, procurement and audit.         The component financed the professional
development of this group of state employees experience in, legal, regulatory, and technical
aspects of private land ownership; in rural credit issues; and in procurement and financial
management. The PMU was successful. Indeed, in 2000, the Government designated the project
PMU as the Agency for the Support of Development of the Private Sector, and charged it with
management of additional World Bank and IFAD initiatives in the rural sector. Independence of
the PMU from any single agency was an element of the PMU's design from the project's outset.
At one time, the project team considered physical location of the PMU within the Ministry of



                                                  - 10 -

Agriculture; however, this was only a matter of physical location, and in the end separate quarters
were obtained for it.

The Project Implementation Units in the project area raions were designed in an opposite manner.
While the PMU was designed as a free-standing entity, the six raion PIUs were staffed by
employees of the line ministries concerned with farm privatization, and all PIU staff members
were to revert to their line ministries at the close of the project. Each PIU was headed from the
respective raion administration and included staff from the Ministry of Agriculture, the State
Irrigation Committee, the State Land Committee, the Agrarian Reform Commission and
Agroprombank. As a result, during project implementation, initiatives required of these ministries
and agencies were advocated to them by their own staff members at the PIUs, who understood
the big picture of privatization as well as their own ministry's point of view. This advocacy
effectively harnessed the capacity of the various agencies, and was a significant success factor for
the project.

As planned, following project implementation all PIU staff immediately reverted to the line
ministries from which they were drawn, having internalized the multidisciplinary Azeri approach
to farm privatization. It is expected that they will continue to contribute to the sustainability of
project initiatives in the future.

Conclusion

The Government learned critical lessons from the FPP. In the course of implementation, the
Government developed important conclusions on how agricultural development could best be
pursued. The Government strategy reflected in the PRSP for example, highlights priority areas
for Government spending in order to achieve sustainable increases in agricultural incomes. These
include farm advisory services, agricultural research, veterinary disease control, rural credit,
rehabilitation of irrigation, and formation of Water Users' Associations.          Discussions with
Government officials confirmed that the Government often characterizes the FPP in its discussions
as "the school of agricultural development in Azerbaijan," and that the pilot initiatives and lessons
learned in the Farm Privatization Project are the basis on which the Government seeks to develop
initiatives in its priority areas.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A project-wide economic rate of return was not estimated in the SAR; instead, the economic
viability of the project was analyzed using a three-hectare model crop and dairy farm. Scenarios
"with project" and "without project" were presented, the "with project" scenario anticipating the
more-profitable operations to result from privatization and project investments in support
services. The SAR analysis of the model farm indicated that the financial rate of return would be
around 20 percent, and economic rate of return would be around 25 percent. Farm incomes were
expected to rise 50 to 100 percent in real terms.

It was not possible to update the farm-level ERR and FRR because of a lack of data: important
gains have been made by farmers' switching into crops outside the SAR baseline. However, the
"with project" crop model as presented in the SAR has been updated to the extent possible, using
data from the pilot farms. The results are presented in Annex 3, and show that the farmer's gross


                                                 - 11 -

margin per hectare increased more than the SAR anticipated, at least for the four crops analyzed
both before and after. However, these figures do not illuminate the changes and their causes
particularly well. First, it is not possible to present "without project" figures for comparison, as
there is no clear delineation of areas of Azerbaijan that were "with" and "without" project.
Second, the update of the SAR's model fails to capture gains from crop switching, nor from price
changes dependent in part on improved marketing of crops by the newly private farmers.

In any case, as the SAR properly noted, the project is aimed not at establishing prosperity at six
pilot farms, but rather at privatization of Azerbaijan's farmland, in turn a means to expand output
and the incomes of Azerbaijan's poor (cf. CAS cited in 3.2). PMU monitoring indicates that in the
pilot areas, household incomes have risen about 400%. For Azerbaijan as a whole, growth in
output has been dramatic, as Figure 1 shows. As noted on page 6, the agricultural production
index in Azerbaijan has risen from 55 in 1995 to 77 in 2002 (where 1990 production is 100) and
of GDP increases by 36% in real terms between 1995 and 2001. This change is generally
attributed to the effects of farm privatization.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR did not estimate a financial rate of return for the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was high. The project developed a successful model of land
privatization that was replicated country-wide and resulted in virtually complete privatization of
Azerbaijan's arable land in a period of a few years. Work is already underway in Azerbaijan to
extend the systems developed for titling arable land to cover non-arable and municipal land. As
well, the project initiated development of farm information systems (and linkage between these
and agricultural research institutions), the provision of rural credit with a sustainable level of
credit recovery, and Water Users' Associations, with the needed legislative/regulatory support.

Table 1. Macroeconomic indicators 1995-2002
Economic Indicator                       1995           1996     1997  1998    1999     2000    2001   2002
Current account balance (% of GDP) -17                  -29      -23   -31     -13      -3      -1     -13
Inflation, GDP deflator (annual %)       546            26       9     -1      2        12      3      1
GDP growth (annual %)                    -12            1        6     10      7        11      10     11
Manat exchange rate (30 June)            4530           4350     3980  3856    3975     4470    4631   4843
Fiscal balance (current revenue,         -4.9          -2.8      -1.6  -3.9   -4.7      -0.6    -0.4   -0.5
including grants, less total
expenditure, (including net lending) as
% of GDP
GNP per capita (US$ by Atlas             190           240       410   510    570       610     660    710
method)
Source: World Development Indicators, World Bank SIMA/LDB

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Pressure from the World Bank for closure of APB created a state of uncertainty that caused
difficulty in implementation of the credit component. The uncertainty over its future may have
restrained APB's willingess to effectively fight for survival and may have played a role in the
institution's reluctance to improve its credit operations and the delays in credit disbursement early


                                                     - 12 -

in the project.

The rise in oil prices was an external factor supportive of agricultural sector reform, as it created
new opportunities outside the agriculture sector that may have helped to buffer fears of change.

The regional drought of 2000 negatively affected project implementation, as the newly-private
farmers contended with elevated risks and difficulties. Repayment rates and demand for new
credits dropped. Repayment rates and credit demand later revived.

The drop in world prices for cotton and wheat negatively affected both implementation and
outcome: implementation, as newly-private farmers who had borrowed money and invested
sweat equity to raise production then found that higher production did not raise incomes from
those crops after all; outcome, as rural incomes from these crops gained less than expected, even
though farm productivity gained more.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
From the outset, the Government provided supportive signals: the PMU was supplied with
central facilities and a very competent, well-connected Director able to work with the Ministries
as needed. Higher-level intervention was provided when needed to resolve project issues. After a
lag in the provision of counterpart funds was flagged by the Bank team, the Government remedied
the shortfall and subsequently provided counterpart funds in full and on time. The Bank team met
often with high officials who helped facilitate project progress, and their involvement helped
overcome incentives at the local level to leave land management centralized in the hands of a few.

As noted earlier, the project benefited from Azerbaijan's macroeconomic stability (see Table 1).
The steady conditions maintained by the Government at the center limited uncertainty, creating an
environment conducive to growth as farmers experimented with new crops, new styles of
management and new associations, and undertook rural credit.

At several key points, the Government revised relevant regulations or legislation to promote
project progress. Legislation was revised to permit issuance of land titles in the raions rather than
the capital as a means of facilitating land transactions and in turn raising the value of land as
collateral. Legislation governing the character of voluntary organizations such as the Water
Users' Associations was revised to avert taxation of water charges and render the WUAs
sustainable. Farmers were granted a five-year tax holiday to provide them an opportunity to
invest in their new holdings, and the rural tax structure in general was simplified and streamlined
in order to promote transparency. However, most importantly, the privatization policy underlying
the entire project did not alter.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PMU led the project with dedication, carrying out social assessment, monitoring project
indicators, and making an ongoing effort to identify and resolve emerging issues. The PMU
undertook an active program of ongoing internal training that continually raised capacity in
community development, farm information services, rural credit, project financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, procurement, and other issues. As a result, the PMU was able to carry
out its end of the Action Plans agreed between Bank and Goverenment in a timely way. The



                                                    - 13 -

PMU achieved rapid procurement of ICB-procured items, which was critical to the quick start of
the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was cofinanced by an IFAD credit of US$9.3 million, originally allocated to WUA
development (US$1.3 million), irrigation and drainage works at Udjar (US$1.5 million),
community development (US$0.6 million) and rural credit (US$6 million).

In the project's first year, disbursement lagged somewhat due to a lack of qualified bidders to
enable ICB for the irrigation and drainage works contracts. Azerbaijan's domestic construction
industry was comprised of a single Government-owned entity, and no other bidders emerged.
This issue was resolved when the state construction industry broke itself up.              Forming
international joint ventures with companies from other countries, these companies then bid on
project contracts, enabling valid ICB. Disbursement on the irrigation and drainage contracts then
took place at about the expected rate. Disbursement on the credit component also lagged initially,
because farmers were hesitant to borrow money for fear of losing their new landholdings. As
noted elsewhere, the project team and Government worked to reduce farmer concerns, and had
success as farmers gradually became bolder in borrowing.

Some changes to activity allocations occurred as the project matured. First, IFAD agreed with
the Bank that full financing of the salaries of WUA staff from IFAD funds, as planned for the life
of the project) could develop the WUAs along unsustainable lines. Therefore, IFAD decided that
it would fund only a very limited number of positions. This saved US$0.7 million. Second, the
NGO contracted to undertake the social development component funded by IFAD did not identify
community-building entrepreneurial activities as had been hoped.         This left US$1.5 million
unspent. IFAD adjusted to these changes by reallocating: (a) US$1.5 million to an expansion of
the irrigation and drainage component to area beyond the pilot farms, and (b) US$0.7 million to
the credit line developed under other project components. As for IDA, its funds were spent as
planned, except that due to the slow spin-up of the credit component, eligibility was extended
from the original 21 villages to 113 altogether. Unallocated funds were ultimately disbursed by
the credit component. No funds were cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The principal achievement of the Farm Privatization Project, privatization and renewed
profitability of farmland, is highly likely to be sustained. Private farming is firmly established in
Azerbaijan, and there is very strong support for it among farmers and officials. The beneficial
effects in terms of a better crop mix and higher productivity are well understood. This, together
with higher farm income levels, makes backtracking very unlikely. The success of the model of
farm privatization used in the project has spread country-wide; nearly all of Azerbaijan's arable
land is now private. Support for the mechanism used for land registration is so strong among
officials and ordinary citizens that it is now being used for the privatization of non-agricultural
land.

Achievement of the contributing objectives is also highly likely to be sustained:



                                                 - 14 -

·        As noted earlier, WUAs have spread from the pilot areas to all parts of the country.
Operations are financed from water charges. Their efficacy in supporting irrigation schemes has
been well established.

·        The WUAs' acceptance of a role in operations and maintenace provides assurance that
improvements made under the project to the irrigation and drainage systems will be sustained.

·        The benefits from the project credit component are durable so far, as credits from reflows
continue to be granted to farmers. In the long run, this initiative is likely to be folded into a larger
one.

·        The Farm Information and Advisory service is recognized by the Government and by
farmers as providing a valuable service. It has become an established part of the Ministry of
Agriculture and is funded from budgetary sources.

In sum, the project made an important contribution to Azerbaijan's transition progress and greatly
facilitated the transformation of the agricultural sector to a competitive market system --
achievements that have broad institutional and political support in the country, and are highly
likely to endure.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Privatization of farmland. Azerbaijan's state and collective farms have now been privatized, and
virtually all arable land is now privately owned and managed. Regular operations are underway.

Support services to private farmers. Azerbaijan's land registration and titling system is now
free-standing of the project. As noted above, most of Azerbaijan's new WUAs were founded
independent of project support, and therefore do not face any transition issues. The WUAs on the
pilot farms have become free-standing as well.        The Farmer Information and Advisory Service
that has become established at the Ministry of Agriculture depends on a line in the national
budget. The Government is satisfied that FIAS adds value, and will continue to support it.

Investments in further development of the land registration system, sustainable rural credit
institutions and farm information advisory services were incorporated in the Agricultural
Development and Credit Project, a follow-on project approved in 1999 that aimed to further the
reforms launched under the Farm Privatization Project. The ADCP also invested in further
development of WUAs country-wide.

Irrigation and rehabilitation. The infrastructure works financed by the project are now owned
by the WUAs, which in turn are composed of farmers whose livelihoods depend on the good
operation of that infrastructure. This transition has already been made.

Community development. The business centers and training centers developed by the NGO
contracted under this subcomponent were folded into the FIAS initiative that is now sustained by
the Ministry of Agriculture.



                                                  - 15 -

Project management unit. The expertise developed at the Agency in the course of this project
has largely been retained. Those staff members continue to work on privatization of agriculture,
providing support to other Government initiatives including the follow-on Bank projects.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory, key to project success. The
preparation team attended to Government priorities, advice and experience, and in turn
contributed best practice in WUA development and emerging lessons concerning privatization of
farming and the transition. The Bank team stressed that titling be legally-executed and perceived
as equitable as key to making the reform durable. The Bank team sponsored study tours for a
group of key individuals, not only ministers but also those at the operational level, to visit private
farm enterprises in Canada. These tours were an opportunity for those involved to surface and
discuss issues, in the process developing ideas about Azeri solutions and a shared sense of
possibility that later provided ongoing support to project implementation.

The Bank/Government team worked with farmers through participatory exercises, discovering the
issues faced by those unable to farm and the hesitation of all farm members to undertake division
of the state farms that might be unfair and, in the worst case, might assign unwatered parcels to
the unlucky. The Bank/Government team revised project design in light of these issues. It
developed a process for dividing the farmland into parcels that was generally seen as fair and
transparent, and was elected by most state and collective farms that privatized in 1999-2000.

Preparation of the rural credit subcomponent was relatively weak, as the impact of APB's
uncertain situation was not fully assessed, intrinsically high transaction costs were underestimated,
and factors making the farmers hesitant to borrow were not fully anticipated. As noted earlier,
while credit disbursements were initially slow, the credit component was ultimately successful.

Experience of the task team in agriculture, community development and issues of the economic
transition were likely the most important factors in the overall success of the preparation effort.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory.          Project implementation progress was
realistically reported, and the TTL showed no hesitation in flagging components that strayed off
track, drawing high-level attention to the underlying issues.

The Bank team proposed good management practices for the PMU, encouraging the hire of
needed international technical assistance, for example in procurement, financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, community development, and other areas of TA where international
experience was cost-effective.

The project team brought international lessons learned to implementation. To that end, the task
team pressed for realistic water charges, pointing out that, however painful, these were needed for
sustainable financing of operations and maintenance of irrigation and drainage infrastructure. The


                                                 - 16 -

Bank team suggested topics and new areas for the Farm Information and Advisory Services,
encouraging demonstration plots, work on crops adapted to individual farming, links with
agricultural research, advice on marketing, and development of other extension topics that have
proved valuable elsewhere. The team pressed early on for procurement of expertise to improve
APB's management of its rural credit portfolio, noting that the ad hoc system in use was adequate
only for small-scale operations with no surprises. This turned out to be prescient when the
drought of 2000 harmed borrowers differentially depending on crops grown, and the portfolio
management system was found unable to analyze the changing pattern of borrower risk.

The Bank team worked with IFAD to ensure that IFAD's cooperation with the Bank met IFAD's
own standards of success; when the credit subcomponent faced delays, the Bank team facilitated
IFAD's decision to move its funds out of that subcomponent and into the irrigation and drainage
component, accepting the Bank's larger share of the higher-risk yet absolutely necessary rural
credit pilot.

The Bank team maintained very strong and cooperative relations with the Government, proposing
and supporting revision of legislation and regulation to render private farm management practical.

Continuity of the task team leader from preparation to closing was also an important factor in
success.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. While the performance of the preparation
and implementation team was exemplary, as noted above, in terms of its experience, application of
past lessons, diligent supervision and willingness to learn from partners, during the crucial year
2001 the Bank's contribution was less than it might have been, just following the mid-term review,
when the supervision schedule for 2001 was cut back for budgetary reasons.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government of Azerbaijan identified an opportunity for land reform, delineated the
conditions needed to make it work (above all, perceived equity), and supported it fully until it was
formally, finally complete. The final success of the project was largely the outcome of the
Government's initial vision and its openness during the preparation period.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
One key to project success was the Government's willingness to experiment on a pilot basis and to
adopt lessons learned for quick scale-up of the successes of the pilot phase. Another key was
excellent cooperation among the affected ministries, agencies and other Government bodies. This
was a direct result of the work of the implementing agency, which effectively harmonized the
Ministry of Agriculture, State Irrigation Committee, State Land Committee and raion
administrations. Given the scope for pursuit of divergent interests as infrastructure changed
hands, the tax structure altered and numerous opportunities for rent-seeking were eliminated,
the degree of cooperation attained was an outstanding achievement.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project was ultimately implemented not by the Ministry of Agriculture, as originally planned


                                               - 17 -

but rather by the Agency for Support to the Development of the Agricultural Private Sector, as
noted above initially a free-standing PMU, ultimately a new agency of the Government. The
Agency did an outstanding job. In terms of preparation for the job, the Agency was up and
running within a few months of effectiveness. International expertise was promptly hired and
retained as long as needed to lay the groundwork for Agency functions such as procurement,
financial management and evaluation functions. Procurement was fair and prompt, giving a boost
to the project when all the project's major procurement for components in the critical path (such
as land registration) was rapidly completed to Bank satisfaction.            Audits were completed
satisfactorily; monitoring and evaluation were excellent, and the Agency's local staff capacity rose
steadily.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance was highly satisfactory.          Government support for the principle that
distribution be equitable and perceived as such was vital to the good outcome of the project.
During implementation, the Government listened to Bank advice and perceptions, and for its own
part, used political capital to make numerous difficult choices: it restrained the influence of local
elites, surrendered tax revenue to support the struggling private farms in their early years,
cancelled farm debts, limited the authority of raion water administrations (Raivodkhoze) over
farm infrastructure, and created an enabling environment for private farming by working together
with international consultants to develop legislation needed for formation of Water Users'
Associations and limitation of taxation thereon. Counterpart funds were received on time after
the Bank flagged the issue.      The principal party responsible for this unique success is the
Government of Azerbaijan.

8. Lessons Learned

With Government support and advice about where the opportunities are for feasible reform, a
Bank project can support profound change. Even with strong preparation and good design, this
project required the active and energetic intervention of ministers, whose commitment was
strengthened by the fact that they were overseeing the success of their own initiative. Reduction
of taxes on farmers, devolution of water infrastructure to WUAs, pressure for very high levels of
productivity from the State Land Committee, were all vital and all required strong Government
support.    The credit component would likely have failed, had not the highest levels of
Government intervened to counter the expectation of political elites that they could borrow and
not repay.

Perceived fairness of distribution provides strong support for the sustainability of a land
distribution program. The methodology used to distribute farmland allocated parcels by lottery.
This approach assured that those who designed the parcel division would seek evenness in value,
not knowing which parcel they themselves might receive.

A key to success of rural credit initiatives is whether the project team correctly identifies the
issues faced by farmers. An over-lengthy credit application, the need to travel to the capital for
an application, inconveniently timed repayments, the likelihood that market profits will be robbed
on the road ­ all these and a host of other micro-issues affect success. Unraveling of these by
listening to the client and analyzing rural incentives can take a rural credit initiative from apparent



                                                - 18 -

failure to success.

NGOs are not necessarily well-prepared to focus on participatory work and listen to the voices
of the poor. As noted above in the description of the community development component, the
NGO hired for community development was not specifically instructed to achieve economic gain
for the poorest members of the community. It may have been believed by the project team that
NGOs automatically bring a grass-roots point of view to their contracted activities, and that this
performance indicator need not be spelled out. In practice the NGO performed as a for-profit
consultancy might, focusing on achievements easiest to monitor and quantify:              building,
contracting, delivering classes and lectures -- rather than on searching out and encouraging
fledgling economic efforts among vulnerable and commercially inexperienced village members,
whose initial ideas were often a long way from viable. Still, the latter is what needed to be done;
the former was an overlap and indeed a competition with the project's FIAS component, a point
the NGO could hardly have missed. In short, the NGO behaved as a rational economic actor
meeting its TOR and achieving payment and a growth in salable experience. Perhaps no more
should have been expected, and the TOR should have been written accordingly.

The transaction costs of rural credit are high. These costs are sometimes concealed by the
structure of donor or government-sponsored initiatives.           However, they must not be
underestimated if work toward sustainable rural credit is undertaken.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                                 Government of Azerbaijan Republic

                                  Government Commission's Views
                         on the Farm Privatization Project Implementation

           State Commission to Support the Development of the Agricultural Farms and a Project
   Management Unit (PMU) for the implementation of the World Bank assisted "Farm
   Privatization Project"     were established by a Decree of President of Azerbaijan Republic in
   September No: 195 on September 19, 1996. The project was very successfully implemented
   through the Project. Working Groups established in Pilot Districts (Raions).

           The statute of the Central and District Working Groups for the implementation of the
   Pilot Agricultural Enterprises Privatization Project was approved by Resolution No: 168 of
   Cabinet of Ministries of Azerbaijan Republic on December 2, 1996 and under this statute the
   role, responsibility and rights of Central and Local Working Groups were clearly defined.

           The organizational structure and their activities helped us to successfully implement
   "Farm Privatization Project" all the defined objectives and goals. All the issues related to the
   implementation of the Project were broadly guided regularly by the State Commission for
   Supporting the establishment of the privatized Agricultural Farms and their development and
   resolution to remove any impediments were made time in consultation with the visiting



                                                 - 19 -

missions of the Bank for smoother implementation of the project. It should be noted that, First
Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of State Commission for Agrarian Reforms, Mr. Abbas
Abbasov and members of state commission made special and concerted efforts and contribution
to all the proposals made by the Agency and helped through necessary government resolutions
to formulate and issue the government policies, rules and regulations to make the activities.

        The laws and legal normative acts passed and adopted by Azerbaijan Government had a
great role in privatization Project implementation. In this respect, we would like to mention the
step taken for exemption of land owners and farmers from different types of taxes that acted as
barriers for the privatized farmers to function independently. The Government of Azerbaijan
(GoA) has removed all the complexities and unified the tax impose only land tax now. The
committment of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan to the privatization process and
issuance of suitable decrees and related rules and regulation played a key role in the process of
privatizing State and Collective farms.

         Mr. T. Sampath Task Manager for the "Farm Privatization Project" from the World
bank, had a great knowledge on the natural-climatic condition and the socio economic
conditions of the pilot farms, who constantly interacted and kept the implementation of the
Project under the control and whenever there were delays he helped with his efficient and
productive proposals to successfully solve these problems. There was an excellent mutual
understanding between Mr. Sampath and Project management staff and farm people during the
implementation of the Project. Above all, the high level mutual understanding between the
Agency and Mr. Sampath had resulted to increase the number of villages covered by the
project components not only from initial pilot 21 to 113 and also out side the project areas.
The Government of Azerbaijan (GoA) request the World Bank approval to provide his
continued support for resolving the issues or difficulties we are facing in the implementation of
other Projects that the Agency continues to implement.

        Working with the Agency, the other beneficiaries, Ministry of Agriculture, State Land
and Cartography Committee, Amelioration and Water Farm Committee had properly realized
their commitment within the Project. Besides, the strong contribution for project is the credit
support provided by the Agency for Development of the Agricultural Private Sector. The
Agency developed the proposals for the improvement of the legislation related with the
provision of credit issues, establishment of "Agrocredit" Jointstock Credit Organization,
Implementing Agency for credit component had closely cooperated with the Agency.

        As a result of the implementation of "Farm Privatization Project" it was the first time in
Azerbaijan, which the privatization of land and property a legal framework was established
with the passage of necessary legislation and legal normative acts in pilot farms and 6645
families received land titles. The Information and Advisory Centers that meet the international
requirements had been established in Project Districts.

        The legal-normative documents prepared by the Agency for the operation of the first
water Users Associations (WUA's) established within Project for water fee collection,
operation and maintenance of the on farm irrigation infrastructures by the beneficiaries



                                             - 20 -

   themselves had played important role in developing legal base for other rest of the 550 WUA's
   established countrywide. At the same time, documentations prepared by the project Agency
   provide valuable assistance to the Parliament for evolving and passing new Low regulating the
   WUA's that are acceptable more widely in Azerbaijan Republic.



(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

In "The Environmental Implications of Privatization," Lovei and Gentry consider Azerbaijan
as a case study. While devoting most space to the future of the oil, gas and chemical industries,
they briefly note two countervailing tendencies in agriculture that will influence the level of
privatization-related potential environmental damage. First, use of toxic pesticides is a cause of
environmental degradation; second, there is broad public unease about the presence of toxins in
agricultural products. The authors do not try to go beyond these observations to forecast the net
trend, and it would be difficult to do so: while more-prosperous farmers will have the opportunity
to use a higher level of toxic pollutants, on the other hand, consumers will have the opportunity to
reject farm goods that are tainted with pollutants.        (We may add some observations from
implementation experience of the farm privatization project: farmers are interested in protecting
the future value of their land; farm households consume a substantial proportion of their own
produce; and farmers work with their own hands and those of family members on the crops where
they will choose to apply or not apply toxins.)

In "Republic of Azerbaijan State Programme on Poverty Reduction and Economic
Development, 2003-2005," the Government notes that according to Household Budget Survey
(HBS) data, urban levels of poverty are consistently higher than rural levels (55 percent versus 42
percent, for example, if the poverty line for monthly household income less than 120,000 AZM).
The difference is attributed to the importance of land and home produce as a safety net. The rural
population is better off, the Government notes, because of the value of produce consumed from
the household's own agricultural plot or livestock. The Government does not propose that this is
an outcome of privatization; however, the Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the PRSP:
State Programme on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development (2003-2005), dated
April 15, 2003, remarks (para. 27) that the lower poverty prevalence now found in rural relative
to urban areas can to a large extent be attributed to the successful land reform and privatization.

The ICR team agrees, observing that privatization was immediately followed by changes in
cropping patterns aimed to preserve subsistence production and enhance profitable marketing
opportunities. Low-profit tea bushes were torn up, poorly-remunerated cotton production was
dropped, and standard rotations wheat/barley/cotton/lucerne were revised. Farms now grow
peanuts, sugar beet, mustard, safflower, sunflower, chickpea and cowpea; production of livestock
forage has soared as has production of fruits and vegetables including potatoes.


                                                 - 21 -

The Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment also confirms the relevance of the project's activities
beyond land registration, as it notes the importance for medium-term poverty reduction of
rehabilitating irrigation and drainage infrastructure and financing its ongoing maintenance, and of
developing rural finance, rural off-farm enterprises, and agricultural extension services that are
useful and financially sustainable.     This confirms the relevance of the project pilots that have
tested models to meet these precise needs. Various reasonable approaches were tested on the
small scale of the pilots, yielding a harvest of relevant experience that will be applied by the
Agency and other ministries and partners involved in Azeri privatization issues.

The "Azerbaijan Republic Poverty Assessment," June 4, 2003 (World Bank Report No.
24890-AZ) notes that, "The farm and land reform effort which was initiated in 1995 was
successful in stimulating agricultural growth and in contributing towards poverty reduction in
rural households, but the poverty reduction achievements of the land privatization process now
need to be consolidated through ensuring that rural growth is sustained." The document lists
priorities for poverty reduction, which include national establishment of information and advisory
services, agricultural research, consolidation of land registration in support of land markets,
veterinary disease control, rural credit, rehabilitation of irrigation, and support for formation of
Water Users' Associations ­ in other words, rollout on the national level of initiatives to address
the issues for which approaches have been tested in the project pilots. This confirms project
relevance; the initiatives selected for testing and development on the pilot farms correctly focused
on what is required to promote rural development and poverty alleviation.




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                                Output Indicators
                       (Note that this table refers only to pilot farms, except where noted)
Indicator                                       Baseline              SAR Forecast              Actual
                                                                    for End of Project     at End of Project
 No. of Land Titles Issued                          0                     4800                   6645
 No. of Individual Farm Units                       0                      410                   6645
 Established
 Water Users' Associations formed                   0                      19                     31
 Total area covered by WUAs                         0                    9310 ha              17,116 ha
 No. of farmers covered by WUA                      0                      620                   7766
 Performance of irrigation water                    0                     >90%                   95%
 charges collection
 Cotton crop yield                          1500-2000 kg/ha             3000 kg/ha            2800 kg/ha
 Wheat crop yield                           1500/2000 kg/ha             3500 kg/ha            3200 kg/ha
 Barley crop yield                          1200/1500 kg/ha             3400 kg/ha            2200 kg/ha
 Corn crop yield                            about 2500 kg/ha            4500 kg/ha            3800 kg/ha
 Forage crop yield                            6100 kg/ha**              8500 kg/ha            9800 kg/ha
 Vegetable crop yield                    80 quintal ha, or 8000 140 quintal/ha or 14000 150 quintal/ha or 15000
                                                  kg/ha                   kg/ha                  kg/ha
 Fruit crop yield                         80 quintal/ha or 8000 140 quintal/ha or 14000 160 quintal/ha or 16000
                                                  kg/ha                   kg/ha                  kg/ha
 Cow milk yield                                 1050-1500          3500 kg/animal/year     3000 kg/animal/yr
                                              kg/animal/yr
 Buffalo milk yield                      800-1200 kg/animal/yr     3000 kg/animal/year     2800 kg/animal/yr
 Cropping intensity                                65%                    125%                   150%
 Irrigation conveyance efficiency                  45%                    > 65%                  65%
 Field application efficiency                      45%                    >65%                   80%
 Saline and waterlogged area                       32%                    <20%                   15%
 WUA water charges                                 50%                     85%              100% on pilots
 collected/budgetary requirement
Soil pH                                          8.7-8.8                  <8.5*                  ~7.5
Canals rehabilitated                                0                    940 km                1633 km
  Pipelines repaired                                0                     80 km                 94 km
  Water control structures                          0                 650 structures        2347 structures
  New canals                                        0                     92 km                 92 km
  Subsurface drains [rehabilitated]                 0                    150 km                185 km
*Indicator for soil pH presented in SAR showed ph>8.5 at project end. This was obviously a typo, and should have
read as it does here, pH<8.5.

                                       Outcome or Impact Indicators
Indicator                                       Baseline              SAR Forecast              Actual
                                                                    for End of Project     at End of Project
 No. of Land Titles Issued                          0                   6000-8000         869,785 nationwide
 Water Users' Associations formed                   0                  about 30 - 40        580 nationwide
 Rural Household Incomes                       US$200-300              Not forecast          US$950-1400
Note: Growth in farm incomes was more the result of growth in value-added per hectare a consequence of changes
in cropping intensity and changes in crop mix. Indeed, as crop mixes changed, different areas were used for each
crop, and thus productivity before and after is in general not a pure comparison of the same areas differently



                                                       - 23 -

managed. Among the important crop mix changes was the shift from cotton to sugar beet production, as the
farmers identified better income opportunities. Also important was the exit from tea production. This crop had
historically been grown for Soviet self-sufficiency, but as the bushes had not been renewed in over a decade, quality
was very low and the output was not competitive. Cropping intensity rose as winter wheat was introduced,
allowing double cropping in some areas. Crop mix and cropping intensity changes were facilitated first by
ownership rights, and second by the promulgation of new crops and farming and management techniques by the
Farm Information and Advisory Services component.




                                                         - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                            Estimate        Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million     US$ million
Farm Privatization Support Services                           18.57             11.46                62
Rehabilitation of Main Irrigation and Drainage Works           4.20              8.33               198
Community Development Program                                  0.98              0.55                56
Project Management and Implementation                          1.92              3.46               180

Total Baseline Cost                                           25.67             23.80
 Physical Contingencies                                        1.34
 Price Contingencies                                           1.80
                          Total Project Costs                 28.81             23.80
                   Total Financing Required                   28.81             23.80
Change in the rate of exchange between SDR and USD explains the reduced expenditure as denominated in
USD, from the projected US$28.81 million to US$23.80 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                  2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                            4.30            0.20           0.10            0.00           4.60
                                    (2.20)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.20)
2. Goods                            1.20            0.00           0.40            0.00           1.60
                                    (1.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)          (0.00)         (1.30)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           4.30            0.00           4.30
-- TA and Training                  (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.50)          (0.00)         (3.50)
4. Line of Credit                   0.00            0.00          12.80            0.00          12.80
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (5.60)          (0.00)         (5.60)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00           4.60            0.00           4.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.20)          (0.00)         (1.20)
6. Project Preparation              0.00            0.00           0.90            0.00           0.90
Facility                            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.90)          (0.00)         (0.90)
   Total                            5.50            0.20          23.10            0.00          28.80
                                    (3.20)         (0.00)         (11.50)         (0.00)         (14.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            2.56           0.00            0.00           3.43           6.00
                                    (2.03)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.48)         (4.52)
2. Goods                            2.62           0.00            0.49           0.21           3.32
                                    (2.25)        (0.00)          (0.40)         (0.19)         (2.85)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00            1.99           0.57           2.56


                                                - 25 -

   -- TA and Training                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.67)            (0.46)           (2.13)
   4. Line of Credit                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Project Preparation                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Facility                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                5.19               0.00              2.47             4.22             11.88
                                           (4.29)             (0.00)            (2.07)            (3.14)           (9.49)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Sub-Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
    Sub-Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Farm Privatization          10.09         0.78         7.22        6.27         0.21       4.98       62.1      26.9     69.0
Support Services
B. Rehab - Main                 2.43         0.89         1.49        4.01         1.23       3.09       165.0    138.2    207.4
Irrigation Water Supply &
Drainage Works
C. Community                    0.40         0.05         0.59                     0.00       0.55        0.0      0.0      93.2
Development Program
D. Project Management           1.78         0.45                     2.90         0.56                  162.9    124.4
and Implementation

   Note: Cofinancier is IFAD.
   Note: Table does not show appraisal estimate of contribution from Privatized Farm Units. The value of
   this was projected at US$1.94 million to Component A and US$0.71 to Component B. A final estimate of
   this contribution is not available.




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

As noted earlier, a project-wide rate of return was not estimated during project preparation and
appraisal or presented in the Staff Appraisal Report. However, farm models based on possible
farm size and crops were considered and analyzed, and from these, it was estimated that the
financial rate of return for typical farm models would be about 20 percent in the pilot areas.
Comparison of that projection to project experience is presented in the table below, an update of
the table provided in Annex F of the SAR. It is clear from the data that the farmer's gross margin
per hectare increased more than the SAR anticipated, at least for wheat, barley and corn, in the
case of cotton, the sharp drop of international prices, well below long term averages, for the year
2001 and 2002 have sharply cut into the margins. With the recovery of cotton prices in 2003,
however, the margin on cotton as well would reflect significant increases over SAR estimates.

Table 3-1. Comparison of SAR Projection to Project Experience

                  UNITS           WINTER WHEAT              BARLEY                 COTTON                 CORN
                             PRICE    AMT    VALUE  PRICE    AMT    VALUE   PRICE   AMT   VALUE   PRICE   AMT   VALUE
                           (USD/Kg)         PER HA (USD/Kg)         PER HA (USD/Kg)       PER HA (USD/Kg)       PER HA
                                             (USD)                  (USD)                 (USD)                 (USD)
Using Exchange Rate 4911 Manats/USD
                                      (kg)                    (kg)                  (kg)                  (kg)
PRODUCTION PER HA             0.18    3100   568.11  0.15    2800   427.61   0.41   2100  855.22   0.12   2800  342.09
GROSS INCOME PER HA (USD)                    568.11                 427.61                855.22                342.09


VARIABLE COSTS PER HA
1. Seed             KG        0.41    320    130.32  0.31     230   70.25    0.24    80   19.55    0.47    75   35.13
2. Fertilizer
 Urea               KG        0.10    312    31.77   0.10     178   18.12    0.10   398   40.52    0.10   178   18.12
 Phosphate          KG        0.06    462    27.28   0.06     366   21.61    0.06   479   28.29    0.06    83    4.90
 Potash             KG        0.04    135     5.50   0.04     174    7.09    0.04   186    7.57    0.04   194    7.90
 Complex            KG        0.14     0      0.00   0.14      0     0.00    0.14   202   27.56    0.14    0     0.00
3. Micro-
Nutrients           KG        0.31     0      0.00   0.31      0     0.00    0.31    11    3.36    0.31    6     1.83
4. Manure           KG        0.00    5500    0.00   0.00    4400    0.00    0.00   6221   0.00    0.00   5100   0.00
5. Herbicides       KG        1.63     0      0.00   1.63      0     0.00    1.63    5     8.14    1.63    0     0.00
6. Pesticides     LITRE       1.22     3      3.67   1.22      2     2.44    1.22    26   31.77    1.22    10   11.73
7. Fuel &
lubricant           KG        0.10     94     9.57   0.10     102   10.38    0.10   289   29.42    0.10   178   18.12
8. Labor         MANDAY       1.83     32    58.64   1.83      18   32.99    1.83   180   329.87   1.83    24   43.98


TOTAL VARIABLE COST PER HA (USD)             266.74                 162.89                526.05                141.72
variable cost per 1000 kg output             86.05                  58.17                 250.50                50.61
variable cost expected in SAR                43.85                  36.21                 115.17                54.83
GROSS MARGINS PER HA IN USD                  301.37                 264.72                329.17                200.37
SAR ESTIMATE OF GROSS MARGINS PER HA IN181.14USD                    177.38                437.50                190.28




However, comparison of the farm budget presented in the SAR with actual output is misleading.
While the SAR crop budget anticipated a gain in profitability as productivity rose while crop
prices stayed steady, in fact yield per hectare rose less than expected, while prices rose far more.
Comparison of yields turns out to be quite difficult, because of a more intensive agriculture crop
rotation increased so that the land that was assigned a certain crop in the SAR analysis, ultimately
held several shorter maturing crops during the course of a year. The SAR analysis held constant a
number of factors that the farmers optimized as soon as they were free to do so. Unfortunately,
data collection for M&E did not sufficiently take into account the crop rotation and cultures
beyond the main crops. However, in spite of not being able to perform an in depth review of


                                                         - 27 -

productivity increases due to weak M&E data, the project's economic development impact
achieved through the farm privatization nationwide and its impact on agricultural growth overall
should not be underestimated.

   Crop switching: A major factor in increased productivity was crop switching, as farmers
   expanded plantings of more valuable crops and moved crops from one area to another
   adopting more sustainable corp rotation patterns. Apparent changes in yield do not take this
   into account.
   Output prices:        Crop budget comparison shows that prices went up, contributing
   substantially to farmer income, but does not show why. The price increases are in part a
   consequence of improved quality differentiation -- Azeri wheat is now sold by quality level,
   not as undifferentiated bulk, for example -- and second, a consequence of entering the global
   market. Azeri cotton is no longer sold only to the countries in the USSR's trading bloc and at
   the price set there, but rather is sold on the global market. While this permitts higher prices
   overall, it also subjects the cotton to significant price fluctuations as they were observed in
   2001 and 2002.

The team notes that yield of major crops was significantly larger in the pilot areas than the national
average, in the cases where it was measured. The limited data available tends to confirm the value of the
comprehensive investments in the pilot areas.

         Figure 3-4. Yield of Selected Crops, Country-Wide and in Pilot Areas, 1997 to 2003


                                 Wheat Yield (Tons/Ha) as Percent of 1997 Values
                                        - All Azerbaijan and Five Pilot Areas -


                             500%

                             400%

                             300%                                                                                                              2003 Level

                             200%                                                                                                              1999 Level

                             100%

                               0%


                                    All
                                                    Salyan,                               Barda,
                                                            "Shafag"                             "Gilinjli"  Ujar,             Sherur, Pusyan
                                        Azerbaijan                              "Yerguj"
                                                                      Khachmaz,                                    "Gulaband"

                                                           Figure 3-4a. Wheat




                                                                                        - 28 -

                                Barley Yield (Tons/Ha) as Percent of 1997 Values
                                         - All Azerbaijan and Three Pilot Areas -


                            500%

                            400%

                            300%                                                                                                                                         2003 Level

                            200%                                                                                                                                         1999 Level

                            100%

                              0%


                                      All
                                                                        Salyan,         "Shafag"                                        Ujar,
                                                    Azerbaijan                                                     "Yerguj"
                                                                                                    Khachmaz,                                     "Gulaband"

                                                               Figure 3-4b. Barley


                                 Cotton Yield (Tons/Ha) as Percent of 1997 Values
                                         - All Azerbaijan and Three Pilot Areas -



                          600%

                          400%                                                                                                                                            2003 Level
                                                                                                                                                                          1999 Level
                          200%

                            0%


                                   All
                                                                 Salyan,                                     Barda,
                                                                                "Shafag"                                   "Gilinjli"        Ujar,
                                          Azerbaijan                                                                                                        "Gulaband"

                                                               Figure 3-4c. Cotton



The shortcoming of the M&E data collection also afffected the ability to undertake a conclusive
with/without project economic analysis. Here as well data collection failed to properly delineate
the areas of Azerbaijan that were "with" and "without" project and especially taking into account
the begining point of implementation of the various project components. For example, almost all
of Azerbaijan had privatized farmland in accordance with the project model by the midterm
review in 2000, with project support; meanwhile, on the pilot farms, irrigation and drainage
rehabilitation was not complete until 2002. Likewise, the WUA model spread to more than half
of Azerbaijan's irrigated farmland by end-project, supported by the project financing for technical
assistance and legislative development; meanwhile, the credit component in pilot areas was
ramping up slowly. Extension services developed in the pilot areas were rolled out country-wide
to the extent practicable. Even project investments extended beyond the original pilot areas:
irrigation and drainage rehabilitation was undertaken in additional villages adjacent to the original
pilot farms, and credit access yet more widely. The return on irrigation and drainage works
would be particularly hard to assess, as planned irrigation works were completed late, and the
further extension of irrigation and drainage works rehabilitation was agreed too late in the project
to have shown any results in productivity data. Thus, economic benefits are still largely in the
future.

Consideration of trends in Azerbaijan's overall production provides an indicator of the project,



                                                                                                 - 29 -

reflecting the project goal (national land privatization) and design (providing carrots for the
privatization of six pilots as a means to advertise the real possibility nationwide). It is however an
attempt to provide a comparative presentation of before and after situation as opposed to a strict
comparison of with/without scenario. Agricultural production in Azerbaijan fell after 1991 until
land titling began in 1996. From 1997 to 2002, it has risen steadily. As shown in the main text,
agricultural GDP gain estimated to be about 44 percent altogether between 1995 and 2002. The
growth in productivity is attributed principally to the ownership/titling process initiated during
preparation of the Farm Privatization Project that ultimately spread nationwide by the end of
2000, now standing at 99.2 percent. The charts below show trends in national production, yield
and (for clarification) area sown.

                Figure 3-1. Country-Wide Production Growth, by Crop, 1997 to 2003

                                    Production in Tons as Percent of 1997 Values
                                                                 - All Azerbaijan -


           1000%



                                                                                                                             2003 Level
            500%
                                                                                                                             1999 Level



              0%

                                                     Fruit
                     Barley         Cotton                 Garlic   Maize          Onion          Rice Sugar
                                                                            Melons                                    Wheat
                            Cabbage         Cucumber                                     Potatoes            Tomatoes

                                           Source: Agency for Support to the Development of the Agricultural
                                           Private Sector, 2004.

        Note:   As it is off this scale, note that fruit production in 1999 was 1460% of 1997 value. In
                1999, it was about 1900% of 1997 value.
        Note:   The weak performance of cotton is attributed by the team to the fact that real privatization
                of the cotton ginneries has not taken place. The team believes that it is for this reason that
                prices offered to producers have remained low. The low prices offered provide private
                farmers with inadequate incentive to produce. They have therefore switched out of this
                crop and into others more supportive of household incomes.

                           Figure 3-2. Country-Wide Yield, by Crop, 1997 to 2003




                                                                          - 30 -

                                                   Yield (Tons/Ha) as Percent of 1997 Values
                                                                                             - All Azerbaijan -


 500%

 400%

 300%                                                                                                                                                                                                2003 Level

 200%                                                                                                                                                                                                1999 Level

 100%

    0%

                                                                      Fruit
         Barley                        Cotton                                    Garlic        Maize                    Onion                       Rice
                                                                                                                                                             Sugar
                                                                                                           Melons                                                                        Wheat
                        Cabbage                      Cucumber                                                                      Potatoes                             Tomatoes

Source: Agency for Support to the Development of the Agricultural Private Sector, 2004

                     Figure 3-3. Country-Wide Sown Area, by Crop, 1997 to 2003

                                                     Area Sown as Percent of 1997 Values
                                                                                             - All Azerbaijan -


 500%

 400%

 300%                                                                                                                                                                                                2003 Level

 200%                                                                                                                                                                                                1999 Level

 100%

    0%

                                                                           Fruit
               Barley                        Cotton                                    Garlic       Maize                    Onion                      Rice
                                                                                                                                                                  Sugar
                                                                                                                 Melons                                                                       Wheat
                               Cabbage                       Cucumber                                                                      Potatoes                             Tomatoes

Source: Agency for Support to the Development of the Agricultural Private Sector, 2004.




                                                                                                          - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              7/8/1995                  7    Task Team Leader, Economist,
                                             Privatization and Banking,
                                             Finance and Project
                                             Management, Land Registration
                                             and Management (2), Financial
                                             Management
              12/8/1995               14     Task Team Leader, Privatization
                                             and Banking, Economist,
                                             Irrigation and Water
                                             Management, Finance and
                                             Project Management, Land
                                             Registration, Social Aspects and
                                             Participation (3), Procurement,
                                             Financial Restructuring, IFAD
                                             Representative, IFAD Economist,
                                             IFAD Lawyer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/20/1996               10     Task Team Leader,
                                             Economist, Finance and
                                             Project Management,
                                             Irrigation and Water
                                             Management, Financial
                                             Restructuring, Procurement,
                                             IFAD Representative, IFAD
                                             Water Mgt Specialist, IFAD
                                             Sociologist, IFAD Legal
                                             Consultant

 Supervision
              6/4/1997                  2    Task Team Leader, Finance            S              HS
                                             and Project Management
              11/21/1997                2    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                 S               S
                                             (1); FARM PRIVATIZATION
                                             (1)
              06/11/1998                3    CREDIT AND COM. DEV (1);             S               S
                                             FINANCE & ACCOUNTING
                                             (1); FARM PRIVATIZATION
                                             (1)
              12/17/1998                5    RURAL CREDIT (1);                    S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROJECT ACCOUNTS (1);
                                             MONITORING &
                                             EVALUATION (1); FARM
                                             PRIVATIZATION (1)
              08/21/1999                5    AGRICULTURIST (1);                   S               S




                                              - 32 -

                                           FINANCE,RURAL CREDIT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT &
                                           ORGANIZAT (1); IRRIGATION
                                           SYSTEMS (1); SOCIAL
                                           DEVELOPMENT (1)
               06/22/2000              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           FINANCE, CREDIT, MGMT
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               11/13/2000              7   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION             S    S
                                           (1); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                           (1); LAND REGIST. and
                                           AGRONOMY (1); FINANCE
                                           AND CREDIT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT PLANNING
                                           (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                           (1); PROJECT COSTS (1)
               12/08/2001              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           ENVIRONMENT ECONOMIST
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                           ORGANIZATION SPEC (1);
                                           FINANCE/ACCTS MGT (1)
               05/17/2002              7   IFAD REPRESENTATIVE (1);           S    S
                                           IFAD CONSULTANT (1);
                                           INSTITUTIONAL SPEC (1);
                                           FINANCIAL SPEC (1);
                                           ORGANIZATION SPEC (1);
                                           TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                           IRRIGATION SPEC (1)
               11/22/2002              6   ORGANIZATION SPEC (1);             S    S
                                           INSTITUTION SPEC (1); TASK
                                           TEAM LEADER & LR (1);
                                           SOCIOLOGIST (1); IFAD
                                           REPRESENTATIVE (1); IFAD
                                           FINANCE CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               04/2003                2     TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST
               10/2003                1     OPERATIONS ANALYST
               02/2004                2     TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            62.7                         218.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 17.9                         127.5




                                            - 33 -

Supervision    179          561.1
ICR            10.4           24
Total          270          931.1




                  - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-Mémoires

Supervision Mission 30 May ­ 10 June 1998
Supervision Mission 2-16 December 1998
Supervision Mission 12-20 August 1999
Supervision Mission 13-22 June 2000
Mid-Term Review Mission, 13-29 November 2000
Supervision Mission 24 November ­ 9 December 2001
Supervision Mission 5 May ­ 17 May 2002
Supervision Mission 10 ­ 22 November 2002

Monitoring Reports

The World Bank Farm Privatization Project: AgroProm Bank Staff - Report on their training,
training design and course inputs, by Sunderraman Krishnaswamy, June 1997.
Brief About the Working of the Farm Privatization Project, Azerbaijan Republic, Baku. Baku,
1998.
Project Monitoring Report (for the period until July 31, 1998)
Base-line Report, March 1999
Third Quarter Progress Report, July-September 1999
Project Monitoring Report (for the period 1997-July 31, 2000), August 2000
Project Monitoring Report for the period until July 31, 1999
Project Monitoring Report for the period 1997-1999
Detailed Report on Credit Component and a Case Study of Selected Raions, March 2000
Fourth and Sixth Monthly Reports by Irrigation and Drainage Consultant, February and August
2000

Studies

Azerbaijan Republic Farm Privatization Project Main Report on Final Monitoring and Social
       Evaluation. Elat Agro-Business Consulting Center, May-June 2003.
Land Reform in Azerbaijan: Legal and natural/ecological questions, by Garib Mamedov
(Chairman of State Land Committee of Azerbaijan), Baku, 2000.
Azerbaijan ­ Poverty Assessment, June 2003, World Bank, Washington DC (Two volumes).
Azerbaijan Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 15 April 2003.
The Environmental Implications of Privatization: Lessons for Developing Countries, World Bank
Paper, 30 April 2002.
The World Bank in Action: Stories of Development. World Bank Working Paper, January 1,
2002.
Social Assessment. Study undertaken for Farm Privatization Project. January 1, 1998.




                                              - 37 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

                                          Survey Methodology

In May-June 2003, a survey of project beneficiaries was undertaken by Elat, an Azeri NGO with
rural expertise, to quantify aspects of beneficiary experience with farm privatization. Elat aimed
to survey a representative rather than a random sample because, in Azeri rural areas, cold calls to
randomly selected households will not produced an unbiased result due to the non-representative
nature of those willing to respond to such outreach. Few women would respond to that survey
method, and fewer than half of men, among whom an even smaller group would feel obliged to
provide the most exact answers possible. Therefore, Elat sought to achieve a representative
survey by obtaining names from varied rural contacts and from members of village Baladiyas.

500 households were surveyed on pilot farms. Elat collected 500 names for that sample from the
21 villages included in the project frm the outset by asking the local PIU and the villages' elected
Baladiyas to supply names, including in the sample: (i) people who had applied for credit and
people who had not, (ii) people who were WUA members and people who were not, (iii) widows,
single people and married male heads of household, (iv) people receiving remittances from
elsewhere and people who did not, (v) people with on-farm enterprises and people without.

In addition, 500 households were surveyed on non-pilot farms in the pilot raions. These were
obtained from 21 villages selected for being closely comparable to the 21 pilot villages sampled in
the first group, on the basis of such factors as soil quality, water availability and population. From
these villages, as for the pilot villages, Elat assembled a list of interviewees, including farmers with
and without off-farm enterprises, and members and non-members of WUAs or other associations.
Interviewee references were sought from members of the elected Baladiya and also from Elat's
own contacts.

As well, 500 households were surveyed, drawn from the rest of the country. Elat identified two
comparison raions for each project raion: one similar, one very different. In each of these twelve
raions, Elat chose one or two villages to represent contrasting conditions of soil, infrastructure,
water availability and quality, etc. From these villages, Elat assembled (from references supplied
by the elected Baladiya and from its own contacts) a list of interviewees representing farmers with
and without off-farm enterprises, and members/non-members of WUAs and other associations.

Elat's final report is in the project files.

                                       Table A8-1: Respondents

Men: 1240                 Women: 260
Age less than 25: 58      25 < Age < 55: 1110         Age > 55: 332
Single: 128               Married: 1029               Widowed:181              Other: 162




                                                   - 38 -

                                    Highlights from the Survey

·       Tables A8-2 to A8-6 concern improved support for farmers in the pilot area.

Water. About 80% of farmers in the pilot area stated at project end that their farms were supplied
with water according to the requirements of their chosen crops, while only about 25% said the
same in non-pilot areas.

Land. In pilot areas, about 25% of land in control of farmers surveyed was land they had rented
or bought in addition to their allotted parcels; no such expansion was found among the non-pilot
farmers surveyed. In non-pilot areas, about 14% of the land under the control of newly private
farmers was unused in 2002 due to lack of water there; in pilot areas, it was about a third of that.
Family management and garden plots were dominant in pilot areas; but in non-pilot areas,
management of private land organized as large farms was more important. It would appear that
allotments off-pilot were smaller, at least in the surveyed groups.

Farm Information. Nearly all on-pilot farmers had obtained farm information in the form of
brochures, advice, demonstrations, or mass media dissemination.           About 80% reported an
improvement in income as a result of this information. Off-pilot, only about 5% of farmers had
received information from these sources though, again, about 80% of those who had reported an
improvement of income as a result.

Credit. While about 57% of off-pilot farmers said that obtaining credit for on-farm investment
was not really possible, only 1% of on-pilot farmers were equally pessimistic. As for off-farm
investment, the non-pilot farmers describing such loans as not really possible was 73%, compared
to pilot farmers, of whom only 18% were so pessimistic.

Chemicals. About twice as many respondents in pilot areas as outside were using fertilizers, and
the same for chemical pesticides.

·       Tables A8-7 and A8-8 highlight the increased incentives in the pilot areas for active
farm management and water conservation.

Changing crop mix. At the time of the survey, about 80% of farmers in the pilot areas had
already planned and implemented new cropping patterns on their farms, while only about 50% of
those in non-pilot areas had done so as yet. Presumably this reflects the fact that in off-pilot
areas, some farms had only just undergone formal titling.

Stewardship of land and water. At the time of the survey, about 95% of on-pilot farmers had
volunteered labor to maintain irrigation structures, and 50% intended to do so again.

About 85% of pilot-area farmers had taken steps to reduce water use in the field (75% intended
to do so again), and 45% had taken steps to protect the quality of their fields/land. Interestingly,
about 80% intended to take future steps to protect the quality of their fields/land; presumably, the
delay pertains to the cost of such investments. Off the pilot farms, these steps had not been taken,



                                                 - 39 -

though the level of commitment to such actions at some date was comparable.

Incentives for Water Conservation.       Farmers were asked why they undertook conservation
measures. In pilot areas, only 20% stated that they had reduced the volume of water used in
order to reduce water charges, while about 60% said they conserved water in order to protect the
quality of land and avoid waterlogging. In non-pilot areas, about 25% said there was no need to
worry about saving water at all. About 40% were concerned about water charges, and only 20%
about protecting the quality of land.

·       Tables A8-9 to A8-10 show that although the surveyed pilot and non-pilot areas had
comparable incomes in 1998, income from crops and livestock had diverged dramatically
by 2002.

Table A8-9 shows that incomes from various sources (crops, livestock, agroprocessing, pensions,
remittances) were generally similar in the pilot areas and the surveyed off-pilot areas in 1998.
However, by 2002, while income in the off-pilot areas had approximately doubled (in current
manat), income in on-pilot areas had increased about tenfold (in current manat), mostly driven by
increases in crop income and secondly by livestock income.

Table A8-10 details the larger crop production and sales on-pilot compared to off-pilot.

·       Tables A8-11 to A8-13 show that privatization was seen as more equitable in pilot
areas. Beneficiaries were more hopeful, and saw the result as fairer to weak members of
society.

Table A8-11 shows that the reasons for supporting privatization were generally similar on-pilot
and off-pilot. In all areas, water supply, credit and business advice were significant support to
farmers' willingness to undertake the transition.

Fears of privatization were also similar in pilot areas and outside. The most widespread initial
fears were that the newly private farmers would not be able to pay startup costs for seeds and
other inputs; that the new system would be reliant on bribes, which the newly private farmers
would not be able to pay; and that the farmers would not be able to overcome lack of experience
in private farming.

Table A8-12 shows that the distribution of state/collective farmland as private plots was
ultimately perceived as being fair overall.

Table A8-13 shows how respondents sized up the winners and losers from privatization. 88% of
respondents in the pilot area considered themselves winners from privatization, as did 54% of
respondents outside the pilot area. In general, non-pilot respondents perceived more inequity in
the outcome. While about 65% of on-pilot respondents saw pensioners, the old and disabled as
losers in privatization, 80-90% of off-pilot respondents saw these vulnerable groups as having lost
out. In pilot areas, about 70% of respondents saw "average" people as winners, while outside the
pilot, about 50% of respondents did so.



                                                - 40 -

                                       Table A8-2: Water Supply
                                                                          Pilot   Outside Pilot
                                                                      Villages, %  Villages, %
                                                                       (N=500)       (N=1000)
Concerning water availability
My farm is supplied with water according to the requirements of            81           23
chosen crops
My farm is supplied with water, but the timing does not correspond         12           34
to the crops
My farm is supplied with some water, but it is not as much as the          2            11
crops require
I do not have any crops that need watering                                 1            30
Concerning condition of water supply infrastructure
It is getting worse every year                                             0            64
It is bad, but it has improved for the last years                          23           19
It is neither very good nor very bad                                       28           11
It is good                                                                 45           0



                                          Table A8-3: Land Use
 Category of Land Use/Rights                                     % of Area           % of Area
                                                               Owned/Rented by Owned/Rented by
                                                                 Pilot Village     Respondents
                                                                 Respondents       Drawn from
                                                                  (N=500)          Outside Pilot
                                                                                 Villages (N=1000)
 Personal garden plot                                                 34                32
 Land received from privatization. but people do not work              9                26
 there independently. it is shared in a large farm
 Land received from privatization but no one used it in 2002           4                14
 because of lack of water there
 Land received from privatization. which is rented to                  3                11
 someone else
 Land received from privatization. which is not used for               1                 6
 some other reason
 Land received from privatization. working on it as a family          18                 7
 unit
 Land received from privatization. working on it with                  9                 4
 relatives and neighbors
 Land rented from the municipality                                    16                 0
 Land rented from some other person entity                             3                 0
 Land bought                                                           5                 0
In the future, do you intend to use all the land allotted to you?
 Yes                                                                  95                70



                                                   - 41 -

 No                                                                5                    30
Why are you not using some portion of land [N varies, as this question asked only of
respondents for whom it was applicable]?
 Lack of money for seeds and inputs                               20                    70
 Do not have good health                                          15                    10
 The land is not good quality and I cannot afford to              20                    10
 overcome the problems
 Received land too late to plant it this year                                           10
 Other reasons                                                    45


                          Table A8-4: Availability of Farm Information
Type/Source of             Pilot Villages, % (N=500)              Outside Pilot Villages, % (N=1000)
                 Brochure, Advice, Paid For    Improvement Of Brochure, Advice, Paid For   Improvement
Information      Demonstration,    The Advice Income Resulted Demonstration,    The Advice Of Income
                 Mass Media                                   Mass Media                   Resulted
Private                  97             39             79            5             100           80
advisory
service
State advisory                 -                          -                 -                       -
service                                 -                                           -
Neighbors or             34             5              51           28              36           71
relatives



                                  Table A8-5: Credit Availability
                                       Pilot Villages, %          Outside Pilot Villages, %
                                           (N=500)                        (N=1000)
                               For               For Off-Farm For               For Off-Farm
                               Plant-Growing     Activities   Plant-Growing     Activities
                               and Animal                     and Animal
                               Husbandry                      Husbandry
Find it difficult to obtain credit
Not too difficult                     64               36           18                 8
It is possible, but with              34               39           22                15
difficulty
Not really possible                    1               18           57                73
Not interested in a credit             1                7            3                 4
Have used land as collateral for a loan
Yes                                           78                             12
No                                            22                             88
Will use land for collateral in future
Yes                                           64                             89
No                                            36                             11




                                                 - 42 -

                             Table A8-6: Fertilizer and Pesticide Use
                                 Pilot Villages     Outside Pilot      Pilot Villages   OutsidePilot
                                    (N=500)       Villages (N=1000)       (N=500)         Villages
                                                                                          (N=1000)
                                             Fertilizer                      Chemical Pesticides
Respondents using inputs, %            79                  38                62              31



                              Table A8-7: Management of Resources
           Activity                     Pilot Villages, %              Outside Pilot Villages, % (N=1000)
                                            (N=500)
                              Since you became a    In the future, do   Since you became a  In the future, do
                             landowner,have you-     you intend to -  landowner, have you -  you intend to -
Planned and implemented a             79                   95                   48                 80
new cropping pattern
Collected information about           65                   90                   25                 60
market prices for crops
Volunteered my labour to              95                   50                   -                  95
maintain the main irrigation
structure
Took steps to reduce water            85                   75                   -                  60
use in the field
Took measures to protect              45                   80                   -                  75
the quality of the field or
land



                           Table A8-8: Incentives for Water Conservation
                                                                            Pilot       Outside Pilot
                                                                         Villages, %     Villages, %
                                                                           (N=500)        (N=1000)
I have reduced the volume of water used in order to save money on             19             38
water charges
I have reduced the volume of water used in order to protect the quality       59             19
of the land and avoid waterlogging
I have reduced the volume of water used so that my neighbor will              13              5
have enough
There is plenty of water and no need to worry about it                         4             27



                                  Table A8-9: Sources of Income
 Income                          Income, Pilot Villages            Income, Outside Pilot
 Sources                                (N=500)                      Villages (N=1000)
                                  1998            2002              1998           2002
                              (1998 manat)    (2002 manat)     (1998 manat) (2002 manat)




                                                   - 43 -

 Crops                           780,000      18,000,000      760,000     1,000,000
 Livestock                        500,000     25,000,000      485,000     1,100,000
 Fishing or fish-processing       350,000        250,000      360,000       200,000
 agro-processing (dairy/jam,      250,000        300,000      265,000       250,000
 canning, sugar, tobacco, ets.
 Other off-farm enterprise      1,000,000      1,000,000      110,000     1,200,000
 Pension and social support       300,000        800,000      270,000       700,000
 Remittances from abroad          250,000        220,000      267,000       200,000
 Payment for labour on            120,000            -        110,000            -
 another person's farm got
 from livestock/fishing
 activities
 Salary                         1,000,000        980,000      980,000     1,000,000
 TOTAL                          4,550,000     46,550,000    3,607,000     5,650,000



                               Table A8-10: Crop Production and Sales
Income Source           Total Crop Production (Tons) For   Total Sales (Manat) For Eligible
                               Eligible Respondents                  Respondents
                         Outside Pilot        In Pilot       Outside Pilot        In Pilot
                             Villages     Villages (N=500)      Villages         Villages
                            (N=1000)                           (N=1000)          (N=500)
 Wheat                         450              2625            36 450            219 038
 Cotton                        100               450             5 250            21 250
 Alfalfa                       500              1050            26 000            10 050
 Barley                        200               525            28 000            28 000
 Other vegetable              1000              1500            11 900             9 000
 Rice                           65               105             9 750            14 850
 Tea                                              0
 Cabbage                       700               225            90 000            315 000
 Tomato                       1000              1800            320 000           320 000
 Potato                       2000              2250            262 500           262 500
 Onion                        2150              2150            255 000           255 000
 Eggplant                      960               960            111 000           111 000
 Apple                        1400              1400            260 000           260 000
 Lemon                                            0
 Pomegranate                  1250              1250            210 000           210 000
 Sugar beet                   1000              1000
 Dairy products, litr          280               900            50 000            126 000
 Meat                          136               500            189 000           800 000
 Egg, unit                    34000            50000             1 400             3 500
 Wool                           12                40            14 400            57 000



                  Table A8-11: Hopes and Fears Concerning Land Privatization
                                                          Pilot Villages, %        Outside Pilot
                                                              (N=500)               Villages, %


                                                  - 44 -

                                                                                    (N=1000)
Reasons for supporting privatization
The community voted for privatization, so I had no                  17                22
other choice.
I had lost belief in kolkhoz/sovkhoz and wanted to                  34                41
operate as a private farmer
I trusted in reforms carried out by the Government                  26                31
I was influenced by the relatives or neighbors                       9                14
I thought that, with a water supply, I had a good chance            14                 8
to increase my income
I thought that, with some credit, I had a good chance to            17                21
increase my income.
I thought that, with business advice, I would be able to            21                14
increase my income
I trusted in it because it is an international model                14                13
I supported farm privatization for other reasons                    23                26
Fears of privatization
I was afraid I would not succeed because I thought I                61                64
would have to pay bribes, and I do not have enough
money to do that.
I was afraid I would not succeed because I have never               47                51
had any experience of private farming.
I didn't believe a Government initiative could work.                31                22
I didn't believe that farming could be profitable                   17                12
because the irrigation infrastructure was deteriorating.
I was afraid I would not succeed because I didn't have              67                59
any money to start out, to buy seeds and rent machines,
etc.
I didn't believe I could succeed in the private system              31                27
without the support of the sovkhoz/kolkhoz.
I had some other anxiety about privatization                        29                38



                              Table A8-12: Distribution and Use of Land
                                                        Pilot Villages, Outside Pilot
                                                              %         Villages, %
                                                           (N=500)       (N=1000)
When the state/collective farm was divided up, did you receive a property share
of the same average value as others?
Same                                                          45            35
Better                                                        50            35
Worse                                                         5             30
For the village as a whole, was the division fair or unfair?
Fair                                                          50            35
Unfair                                                        40            45



                                                     - 45 -

No opinion                                          10            20



                 Table A8-13: Estimated Winners/Losers in Privatization
                            According to Respondents in  According to Respondents
                                  Pilot Villages, %      Outside Pilot Villages, %
                                      (N=500)                    (N=1000)
                             This Group      This Group This Group     This Group
                             "Benefited"       "Lost"   "Benefited"       "Lost"
Officials                        21               29        68              10
Farmers                          61               9         49              29
Pensioners and the old           15               65         7              89
Disabled                         10               67         3              80
The young and strong             63               8         51              28
Women                            34               39        21              67
Men                              69               2         38              33
Average people                   70               18        51              46
Future of children               89               9         33              19
The bourgeois                    78               2         90               8
The respondent                   88               5         54              37
People who were rich before      65               21        80              17




                                            - 46 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

A workshop was held in Baku on May 25, 2004, to gather the views of project stakeholders. Workshop
participants included private farmers, employees of the project PMU (the Agency for Support to the
Development of the Agricultural Private Sector), representatives of Agrarcreditbank, the Agrarian Reform
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Land Committee and the State Irrigation Committee,
and the World Bank's Resident Representative in Baku, among others.

Workshop participants uninimously agreed that the project has had a positive effect on incomes in
Azerbaijan's rural areas. The following points were particularly emphasized.

Extension. The farm information and advisory service component, which offered extension services to the
newly private farmers, was initially not popular with the Government, who thought it a substantial expense
aimed at a vague goal. But by the end of the project, however, the Government as well as private farmers
were enthusiasts for this component. It was named more often than any other as having been key to
success.

First, it completely changed the rural worldview. Besides detailed information on credit, land privatization
and so on, Ministry brochures conveyed the implicit message that the Government's rural policy was public
and up for discussion, and that rural residents were to reflect on their own best interests and participate in
decisions affecting them. Officials noted that it is very difficult to change people's worldview, but that the
implicit message carried over and over again in Ministry brochures had done so.

Second, it was noted that in all of Azerbaijan, about 3,408,000 people became private farmers. While all
were village residents, many had not farmed before, having been sovkhoz/kolkhoz teachers, for example, or
administrative employees. These new farmers needed not only to learn market principles, but even to learn
to farm. Ministry information explained to them how to use their new farms.

Several following forms of outreach were specified by various speakers as having been particularly
effective.

   l The Ministry of Agriculture undertook an extensive pilot outreach to the pilot farms. Ministry
         employees visited the villages to ask farmers to list their problems and the issues they would like to
         learn about. The Ministry then organized workshops by specialists from MoA or the universities
         to cover the demanded topics.
   l The Ministry of Agriculture prepared brochures describing crop alternatives appropriate to
         Azerbaijan's agroclimate zones, explaining the time and depth of sowing, and describing the
         various cash/non-cash inputs that would support yield increases:                good quality seeds,
         labor-intensive methods, etc. Because the former state-owned farms tended toward monoculture,
         much of this crop information was new even to those who had worked on the state farms before,
         and was invaluable to the many who had not farmed at all.
   l The pilot farmers from Ujdar, among others, cited the support for preparation of business plans as
         particularly useful.
   l Demonstrations by Ministry employees showed the private farmers the importance of drainage for
         productivity. As drainage was a task the farmers would need to undertake themselves, convincing
         them of its importance was necessary. For example, Ministry employees showed the farmers how
         drainage helps prevent salinization of land. The representative of Salyan farm flagged the training
         received by the newly private farmers on the operation of irrigation equipment, processes for
         measuring water level in canals, use of irrigation water. Other Water Users' Associations then



                                                     - 47 -

        made use of the Salyan example and technical basis.

Community focus. The project's community decision-making focus was remarked on in several respects.

l The project's community development component, which ultimately resolved the drinking water
    problem in five areas, was very important for those living nearby.           The communities involved
    participated in these works.
l The involvement of the community in credit decisions was specified as a reason for the success of the
    credit program. The farmers themselves participated in credit decisions, and always decided by
    majority vote. Farmers are eager to return the credit on time. 5,800 farmers have received credit from
    that fund by now. In this contribution of IFAD, both technical assistance and financial help were
    appreciated.

WUAs and infrastructure. The representative from Salyan farm noted that the Water Users Association
arrangement was initially found difficult, a situation exacerbated by the fact that the infrastructure it was to
maintain was in very poor condition ("like 1910"). The project identified the needed works and undertook
them. According to this farmer's recollection, no increases were observed until the irrigation and drainage
works were complete, and all project benefits resulted from rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage.
Again, the financial assistance of IFAD that enabled implementation of this vital component was
appreciated.

Interministerial cooperation. Project success was attributed also to the close cooperation of ministries,
directed toward comprehensive solution of the problem.

Country conditions. Representatives of the ASDAP highlighted the support provided by the Government
of Azerbaijan. In the first years of independence, agriculture did not show an improvement. Under Aliyev,
it has improved. The Aliyev administration promoted a new entrepreneurial mentality, seeking to promote
understanding of entrepreneurship, and to actively identify problems and remove them.

Emigration. Participants remarked that before the project, villagers wanted to emigrate to Baku or to
Russia. Now, however, the villagers are better off than those in Baku. It was said that the emigration of
the young from rural areas to the cities and to Russia has halted, and that the flow now is in the other
direction.

                         AZERBAIJAN FARM PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
                       "Lessons Learned and Recommendations of Stakeholders"
                                                 Workshop

                                  Agency for Support to the Development
                                      of the Agricultural Private Sector

                                          Government House, Baku
                                          10:00 a.m., May 25, Baku

        l Presentation by the Agency Director
        l World Bank Country Manager makes opening speech and contribution on the "Farm
            Privatization Project" and opens the floor to discussion by the full assembly.
        l Mr. Famil Mehtiev, on behalf of the Agency Director, presents briefly the project
            accomplishments.


                                                     - 48 -

                                    Stakeholder Statements

l On the Farm Information and Advisory Services: Statement by representative of the Ministry
  of Agriculture
l On Land Privatization and Titling: Statement by the representative of State Land and
  Cartography Committee
l On the Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage: Statement by the representative of
  Amelioration and Water Farm Committee
l On Rural Credit: Statement by the Chairman of Agrarcredit
l On the Water Users' Associations: Statements by WUA Chairmen
l On the privatized farms: ; Statements by Farmers from Pilot Farms
l Additional Statements by Workshop Participants


                 Documentary film on Farm Privatization Project




                                         - 49 -

- 50 -

