OIMCA E     CEDIT NUMBER 1340 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Education Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           ,1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1340 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                      , 1983,
between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from United States
Agency for International Development (hereinafter called USAID) a
grant (hereinafter called the USAID Grant) in an amount of one
million one hundred thousand United States dollars to assist in
the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the USAID Grant Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development   Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Project Unit" means the project implementation unit
established under Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment (Education Project) dated July 19, 1973, between the
Borrower and the Association, as the said Project Unit shall be
maintained pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to tim- by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be finanr-ed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, based on detailed lists and
specifications thereof acceptable to the Association, and civil
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Cfedit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in


﻿-3-
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1993, and ending December 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Education with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
educational, financial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to facilitate the supervision of the
construction and the procurement of the goods and services under
the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project Unit with
such facilities, powers, organization, staff and terms of
reference as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of Parts C, D (1) and E of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the


﻿-4-
Association, such consultants, other than those for Part C of the
Project, to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that at least one qualified
counterpart staff is assigned to work on a full-time basis with
each of the consultants to be employed pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section by the date of such employment.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, studies, contract documents and construction and pro-
curement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 5 -
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association  shall  reasonably  request, on    the  execution  and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which


﻿-6-
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records- and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) afford the Association a reasonable and timely oppor-
tunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the cotclusions and
recommendations of the study referred to under Part E (1) of the
Project; and
(b) on the basis of the above and taking into consideration
the Association's views on the matter, take all action necessary
to carry out the recommendations of the said study in accordance
with an implementation plan satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times cause:
(a) the facilities provided under the Project to be oper-
ated in conformity with appropriate administrative and educa-
tional policies and practices and with due regard to economy; and
(b) the buildings, equipment and furniture of the facili-
ties provided under the Project to be maintained and necessary
repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate technical practices.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The USAID Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by March 31, 1984 or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement


﻿-8-
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Se tion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02..The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of
the Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
CENPLAN                            2266
Sana'a                             CENPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through thair
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /SI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                 -k
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               3,865,000        36%
(2) Equipment and             2,850,000        100% of foreign
furniture                                 expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'                920,000        100% of foreign
services and                              expenditures
fellowships for
Parts.C, D
and E of the
Project
(4) Basic training
facility under
Part B of the
Project
(a) civil works            368,000        100%
(b) equipment,             460,000        100% of foreign
furniture                            expenditures, 100%
and materials                        of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(c) operating               92,000        100%
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 645,000
TOTAL     9,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "operating expenditures" means expenditures
for salaries of instructors appointed to the basic vocational and
literacy schemes carried out under Part B of the Project and for
the transportation of the staff of the Borrower's Ministry of
Education and of the District Training Centers during the
carrying out of their supervision of the operations of the said
schemes during the first two years of commencement of training
under each such scheme.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
AT


﻿- 12 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of.the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A
Construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing of:
(1) four primary teacher training institutes for the
carrying out of the Borrower's teacher instruction program for
the qualifying of primary school teachers; and
(2) three district training centers for the carrying out of
the Borrower's program to increase the literacy rate in rural
areas and to provide basic vocational and other training in
skills relating to agriculture, village and community life,
traditional crafts and home and family life for the population of
rural areas.
Part B
Establishment and operation, in accordance with the criteria
set forth in the Annex to this Schedule, of a basic training
facility for the promotion and execution of basic vocational and
literacy training schemes in rural areas.
Part C
Development and application of a suitable curriculum for the
instruction of students in teacher training institutes, including
those provided under Part A (1) above.
Part D
The provision of: (1) appropriate managerial and technical
support to the Project Unit; and (2) about 8 man-years of
fellowships to the staff of the Project Unit for specialized
training in the management of school expansion programs.
Part E
Carrying out studies to: (1) evaluate the operation of the
district training centers and to recommend the ways and means


﻿- 14 -
suitable for ensuring the effectiveness of the Borrower' s program
of non-formal community-based education; and (2) assess the
feasibility of, and prepare the basic designs for, a program for
the upgrading and expansion of the educational facilities in the
Borrower' s territory.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 15 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Criteria for the Operation of
the Basic Training Facility
under Part B of the Project
Except   as  the   Association  may   otherwise  agree,   the
Borrower's National Board for Non-Formal Education (hereinafter
called the National Board) shall operate the basic training
facility under Part B of the Project on the basis of the
following criteria:
(a) Only such basic vocational and literacy training
schemes (hereinafter called training schemes) as the National
Board shall have determined to be consistent with the Borrower's
strategy for non-formal education in rural areas, shall be
approved by the National Board for execution under the Project;
provided, however, that the reasonably estimated cost of each
such scheme in any single community shall not exceed the
equivalent of $50,000 in the aggregate.
(b) Each proposal for a training scheme shall be submitted
to the National Board by the Director of the District Training
Center within whose jurisdiction the training scheme is to be
carried out and shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1) the proposal shall be supported by a detailed
description   of  the  training   scheme  and   the
training program to be carried out thereunder and
of the construction, furniture and equipment
required therefor and reasonable estimates of its
operating  expenditures  in  accordance with    the
definition of such expenditures in paragraph 2 (c)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(2)  the proposal shall include satisfactory evidence
that: (A) a qualified instructor shall be avail-
able for the training scheme; (B) adequate funds
shall be available from the budget of the District
Training Center to meet recurrent costs of the
training scheme; and (C) the community in which
the training scheme is to be carried out has
undertaken to make a contribution in kind amount-
ing to at least 25% 'bf the cost of the training
scheme.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in- March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages, each estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the


﻿- 17 -
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
infGrmation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Yemen
Arab Republic if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Yemen Arab Republic
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 18 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods which the Association
agrees: (a) cannot be grouped pursuant to Part A.3 hereof, or (b)
are of a specialized nature which makes them unsuitable for
procurement in accordance with the procedures set forth in Part A
hereof, may be procured in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association; provided, however, that the aggregate
of all such goods so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$700,000.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Part B of the Project may be
procured in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the As'ociation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 19 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    /7  I  day of
198a-.
FOR SECRETARY


