Document of
The World Bank
FOR-OFFICIAL USE ONLY
teport No. 6949-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
October 27, 1988
Asia Regional Office
This docmnt bas a resicted dibutIon _ad may be used by        oney In tbe peduo_naa   of
their official duties Its content may not othewise be disdosedwb   Wodd Bankc ou       |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1988)
US$4.00             Rupiah (Rp) 1,660
Rp 1 million    ~  US$602
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YAMRS
Covernment Of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
PTP: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
Bappenas   -    sdan Perancanan Pembangunan Nasional; National Development
Planning Agency
BBD        -   Bank Bumi Daya; a state-owned commercial bank
BEl       -.  Bank Ekspor-Impor Inidonesia; a state-owned commercial bank
BI         -   Bank Indonesia; the Indonesian Central Bank
CPO        -   Crude Palm Oil
DCI        -   Directorate General of Estates
DOA        -   Department of Agriculture
DOF        -   Department of Finance
FFB        -   Fresh fruit bunches (oil palm)
QOI        -   Government of Indonesia
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
LNG        -   Liqiuified Natural Gas
LPP        -   Lembaga Petadidikan Perkebunan; Estates Training Institute
NES        -   Nucleus Estat.- and Smallholder Project; the English acronym is
used here to refer to foreign-assisted projects
PIR        -   Proyek Inti Rakyat; nucles~) estate and smallholder project;
like NOS, but the Indonesian acronym is used here to refer to
wholly locally-financed projects
PMU        -   Project Managemrsnt Units (to carry out smallholder tree crop
programs within DGE)
PTP        -   Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan; State-owned Limited L4ability
Estate Company
Repelita   -   Rencana Pembangunan Lima Tahun; National Five-Year Development
Plan; Repelita III (1979-84); Repelita IV (1984-89)
SCB        -   State Commercial Bank
SOE        -   Statement of Expenditure
Tim Khusus -   Tim Khusus Proyek Perkebunan Inti Rakyat (TKPIR; Special Team
in DGE for nucleus estate and smallholder projects)
TOR        -   Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY......................... ............        v
I. BACKCROUND
The Agricultufal SectorI............. ...... .   * -      ...*.       1
The Tree Crop Subsector betor...............................o.        3
Lank Role and Subsector Lending Strategy..........4..........         9
iationale for Bank Invwlvem                     e     n     t        10
II.   PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Prepdration ...                                              11
Project Objeetivei..                                                 11
III.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ComponeiQnts .....444. ~44~0 044444.4 #44004040 4400.400444 @,4 040  11
Processing Faciiisi.s                                                12
Staffing and Training .....15
Tecbahical .....................       .               .......       16
Environmental Protection         .. ....................             17
Studies .........................                                    18
Monitoring and Evaluation Component..........................        20
Start-up Funds............ .                                        20
IV. PROJECT COSTS AVD FINANCING
Costs                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
Financing ...... , .............................................21
27
29
Special                               Ason ......v29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
July 1987. The mission consisted of Messrs. Mark Cackler, Philippe Boyer,
Dennis Whittle, Roger Batatone, Ronald Ng (Bank); Thomas Beattie and Pierre
Michel (Consultants).
Thh document has a estricted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be dbclosed without World Bank autdontion.



- ii -.
Vale No.
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMU ITATION
Status of Prepatation..................... ............*.....       30
Implementation Schedule ......................................      30
Project                              Msnageuent...............      30
Accounts and Audits............................. ...........        32
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Production       ...........................*                       33
Marketing. eec..... eccee. cc e... eee cc.. c...... e.....e eec.....  ^33
Pricing of Smallholder Produce .ec*.ec.eeecc.c...eece.ee..e.    33
PTP Financial Raturns.......        ...................c            34
Economic Analysis3..........e...                                    34
Social and Environental Impact..............................        37
Project Risks        ....        .....  c                           37
Summary of Project Benefits.............. ccc......c.e......0    38
Cost Recovery.................. ..            ...... eec......      38
VII.   AAEURMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION
Assu ances     .       ..      .     .....cccccccc.                 39
Conditions ......... ceeccecoce e cec..cccc.c.cc....c..ec.e....   e39
Lacoumen4ation .. .................... e*.cc..cc. c..c.e.c c.cc..c  39
TABLES IN MAXN REPORT
3.1   Summary of Factory Requirememtscc.c.ccc.e.eeents  .c.e....c.    13
4.1   Project Cost Sulmary.... .............             ........e        21
4.2   Expected Price Increasese          ...cec.c....e...c..o c...oo .. o*o ccc.c  21
4.3   Financing Arrangements    ...        ...... .......cc.c....         24
4.4   Procurement    ....    ... . . .               ..     ..c.....      28
6.1   Sensitivity Analysis - Rubber Sitesecce.c..c.eeo cc.ece .cc.ooo     36
6.2   Sensitivity Analysis - Oil Palm Sie*ooe...c....c.ee.cce.o.... 36



- iii -
AB8U
1.   Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements
Table 1      -  Sumary Cost and Financing Table
Table 2      -  Project Costs by Year
Table 3      -  PTP Equity Cont4bution
Table 4      -  Financing Plan by Project Site
Table 5      -  Summary Financing Plan for Factory (Credit) Component
Table 6      -  Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 7      -  Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements
Table 8      -  Calculation of 8CB Spreads
Table 9      -  PTP Technical Assistance
Table 10     -  Project Support (Von-Credit) Component (excluding
studies)
Tables 11/12 - Technical Studies
Table 13     -  Other Studies
Appendix A   -  Statements of Expenditure
2. Implementation and Organization
Tables 1/2 - Project Sites
Chart 1.1 - Project Implementation Schedule
Chart 1.2 - Rubber Factory Schedule
Chart 1.3 - CPO Factory Schedule
Chart 1.4 - Schedule for Survey of Effluent Control in Existing
PTP Factories
chart 1.5 - Schedule for Strengthening Provincial Pollution Monitoring
Capabilities
chart 2    - Project Organisation Chart
Chart 3    - Project Flow of Funds
Appendix A - Selection Criteria for Factories
Appendix B - Procurement of Factories
Appendix C - Training
Appendix D - Project Management
Appendix E - Project Monitoring and Evaluation
3.   Crop Processin& and Factory Requirements
Table 1 - Base Yield Profiles for Rubber and Palm Oil
Table 2 - Rubber Yield Projections Used for NES VII
Table 3 - Site Specific Rubber Yield Assumntions
Table 4 - Site Specific FFB Yield Assumptions
4.   Economic and Financial Rates of Return
Table 1    - ERR/FRR by Project Site
Tables 2/5 - ERR and FQR calculations for representative sites



IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- iv -
5.   Terms of Reference for Project Studies and Coniultants
TOR 1  - Standsadization of Palm Oil Factories
TOR 2  - Standardization of Rubber Factories
TOR 3 - Engineering Consultancy for Individual Factories
TOR 4 - Processing Engineers Attached to PTP Headquarters
TOR 5  - Site Training Engineer
TOR 6 - Tim Rhusus Training Consultant
TOR 7  - Tim Khusus Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant
TOR 8 - Tim Khusus Rubber Processing Adviser
TOR 9  - Tim Khusus Oil Palm Processing Adviser
TO 10 - Survey of Effluent Control in Existing Factories
TOR 11 - Strengthening of Provincial Pollution Monitoring
TO 12 - Rubber Marketing
TOR 13 - Long-Term Requirements for Rubber and Oil Palm
Processing Facilities
6.   Selected Documents and Data Availabie in Project Files
MAP:  IBRD 20265:  Project Sites



v 
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Loan And Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiariess      12 Government-owned estate companies (PTPs) and 60,000
smallholder families
Loan Amount:       US$118.2 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Term:s  US$70 million would be on-lent through Government to 2
state commercial banks (SCBs) for 12 years, with a grace
period of 5 years, at an interest rate of 10% per annum,
which provides a margin above the interest rate on the IBRD
loan, to compensate for the foreign exchange risk which
Government would bear. The SCBs would also pay a 0.751
commitment fee on the undisbursed balances. Subloans by
the SCBs to 12 Government-owned estate companies (PTPs)
would be for 10 years, with a grace period of 3 years, at
an interest rate of 161 per annum. US$40 million would be
provided to the PTPs as equity. The remaining US$8.2
million would be used directly by Government agencies for
the project support component.
Project
Description:     The project's factor component would construct or expand
11 rubber and 14 palm oil factories, including effluent
control facilities, for existing nucleus estate and
smallholder projects in the Outer Islands without access to
existing factories. It would also train PTP personnel in
factory management and o9eration and provide technical
assistance to the PTPs. The project's support component
would train DGE and related agency personnel concerned with
tree crop processing, particularly for project monitoring
and evaluation; support technical studies to develop and
recommend more efficient processing methods, and studies on
rubber marketing and long-term tree crop processing needs;
provide start-up funds for preparing future tree crop
projects and introducing advanced tree crop processing
technology; and promote compliance with GOI environmental
regulations by strengthening provincial pollution moni-
toring units and developing action plans to improve the
quality of effluent treatment in existing PTP factories.
The Directorate General of Estates in the Department of
Agriculture would have overall coordinating responsibility



- vi -
for the project and apecific responsibility for the support
component. Implementation of the factory component would
be the responsibility of PTPs. Debt financing for the
factories, including on-lent IBRD funds, would be provided
by SCBs. bThe proposed project would reduce current and
potential losses due to insufficient and inefficient
processing facilities and as a consequence increase 'armer
and estate incomes and non-oil exports. The project would
ensure that palm oil and rubber produced as a res-ilt of
earlier investments (some in Bank-financed Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder Projects and all involving smallholder pro-
duction) are efficiently processed. Finally, the project
would strengthen the institutional and policy framework for
tree crop processing and improve planning for long-term
needs. The economic rates of return on the factories range
from 18X to 130Z with a weighted average of 61X. The
primary project risk is a potential loss of benefits
resulting from delays in project implementation and meeting
the project's capacity and efficiency objectives due
to institutional weaknesses. Project management
arrangements and technical assistance are designed to
minimize this risk.
Estimated Costst/a                                Local      Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Factory Component
Factories                    28.7        53.3      82.0
Housing                       11.5        3.8      15.3
Vehicles                       3.2       12.7      15.9
Technical Assistance
and Training                11.2        7.1      18.3
Initial Working Capital       6.8         0.8       7.6
Support Component                3.0        7.9      10.9
Total Base Costs              64.4       85.6     150.0
Physical contingencies           3.8        6.4      10.2
Price contingencies             10.7        9.5      20.2
Total Project Costs           78 9      101.5     180.4 /a
Interest during construction   40.0        18.6      58.6
Total Financing Required    118.9       120.1     239.0



- vii -
Financiag Plant
IBRD                             18.5       99.7      118.2
Japan Crant Facility               -         1.8        1.8
2 State Com_ercial Banks         80.1       18.6       98.7
12 Government-owned estate       19.6         -        19.6
companies (PTPS)
Government of Indonesia           0.7         -         0.7
Total                         118.9      120.1      239.0
/a   Including taxes and duties estimated at US$13.9 million.
Estimated
Disbremnts:         Bank FY      1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
---- UMS million) --- -
Annual        12      30       24      27       20      5.2
Cumulative   12       42       66      93      113    118.2
Economic Rate of Returns 612 /b
Map: IBBD Vo. 20265
lb ERR, have been calculated for ea,h of the 20 sites proposed for this
project and range from 181 to 1302, with a weighted average of 612.



INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
1.1       Background and Performance.  Agriculture remains a key sector of the
Indonesian economy, contributing 'about one-fourth of GDP and providing employ-
ment to 551 of the labor force. The sector has an important role in non-
oil/liquified natural gas (LNG) merchandise trade, with major agricu.tural
exports accounting for 411 of the value of non-oil/LEC exports, and food for
72 of imports. Of the country's cropped area of 24 million ha, about 8
million ha are under perennial crops, 9 million ha are in dry land farms, and
7 million ha in wetlands suitable for rice cultivation. Food crops account
for 631 of agricultural GDP; with rice alone accounting for a 301 share in
1985. Farm holdings are predominantly small--35 of all household lots are
less than 0.25 ha, and about 30X are between 0.£5 and 05. ha.
1.2       Since 1969, agricultural growth has averaged about 41 per annum and
outpaced population growth by a significant Margin.  Rice output, wiEhc  has_
grown at 51 p.a. since 1969 (6.31 p.a. since 1975), has made a solid contribu-
tion to the sector's impressive performance. Other food crops (particularly
corn) and cash crops (such as oil palm and spices) have also shown marked
growth and added to the significant gains registered in rural welfare in the
past several jears. This impressive performance in agriculture can be attri-
buted to three basic sets of policies: (a) sound macroeconomic management
through a responsive and flexible exchange rate policy combined with prudent
fiscal and monetary policies; (b) successful rice intensification programs
sparticularly in Java) supported by subsidies for fertilizers, pesticides and
credit, introduction of and continuing research on high yielding varieties,
and investments in irrigation and rural infrastructure; and (c) an increased
focus on tree crop development as a major economic activity in the Outer
Islands.
1.3       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agriculture
sector during Repelita IV (1984-89) are to: (a) increase production to meet
domestic requirements for food while meeting the needs of industry and expand-
ing agricultural exports; (b) increase farmers' incomes and generate employ-
ment; (c) promote a more balanced distribution of economic opportunities,
regional development and land settlement; and (d) improve the health and
nutritional status of the population.
1.4       Sector issues and Challenges.  The sector is in a period of transi-
tion, partly as a result of the normal development process, but also due to a
need to adjust to recent developments, including volatile prices for primary
coumdoities, constraints on the resource availability for public sector sup-
port, and the possibility that rice may no longer provide the same momentum of
growth as in the past. Thus the strategies of development need to change.



Th6se strategies include inter alia input subsidies on a scale which are
unsustainabl* over a conti  edperod of time, direct administration of
production targets which may not lead to development of production systems
based on the relative profitability of alternative crops, large-scale con-
struction of now irrigation infrastructure with inadequate attention to
operations and maintenance of existing facilities, and limited private sector
participation in agricultural marketing and processing which has put excessive
onus of development of the sector on Government. The question facing
Indones'an policy makers is how to sustain growth in the sector through
greater economic efficiency, intensification and diverse patterns of
production. Fortunately, relatively low labor costs, and varying agro-
climatic conditions are conducive to addressing this question in a technically
sound and environmentally sustainable manner.
1.5       Employment generation and poverty alleviation are among the coun-
try's most pressing development problems. These are viewed in the context of
the agriculture sector's capacity to absorb labor both in Java and off-Java.
During 1980-85, employment in agriculture in Java grew at 0.91 p.a., contribu-
ting about 242 of total employment growth in Java. Employment in agriculture
off-Java grew at 3.12 p.a., contributing nearly 611 of total employment growth
in the Outer Islands.  There have been fewer opportunities for nonagricultural
employment in the Outer Islands, with 65 million people (402 of population)
and only 202 of medium- and large-scale industries, which contributed only 61
of employment growth during the 1980-85 period. Even the trade/transport
sector contributed only about 21X of employment growth in the Outer Islands
during this period compared to 492 in Java. With the increase in rural labor
force in the Outer Islands estimated to be about 3X p.a. during 1985-90
(compared to 0.7% p.a. in Java) and 2.2X p.a. during 1990-95 (compared to 0.62
p.a. in Java), the agriculture sector will continue to face the challenge of
generating productive employment opportunities (a challenge which is
exacerbated by a limited amount of land agronomically suitable for food
crops). Labor absorption will also remain a major challenge in Java, where
virtually all economically irrigable areas are already under irrigation and
planted with high-yielding rice varieties. Therefore, throughout Indonesia,
food crops can be expected to absorb only limited amounts of additional labor,
so zhe expansion of agricultural lands through exploitation of high-value tree
crops may be the only effective means of generating growth and employment on a
large scale in the Outer. Islands.
1.6       Some 342 of the population (412 of rural population) live below the
absolute poverty level. Although Java had, in 1984, the highest concentration
of poverty, poverty in the Outer Islands was also high at 312. Moreover, the
gap in poverty incidence between Java and the Outer Islands has been narrowing
as poverty has worsened in rural areas of the Outer Islands. Whereas rural
Java's poorest 40X experienced an increase in per capita consumption of 1.92
p.a. during 1980-84, the consumption of the poorest 402 in rural Outer Islands
decreased at an annual rate of 1.62. In 1984, about 4.3 million people in
rural areas (3.62 of the rural population in Indonesia) had per capita expend-
iture levels that were insufficient to adequately meet the food demand. Of
this group, about 852 live in the Outer Islands.



- 3 -
1.7       In summary, the challenges faced by the agriculture sector are to:
(a) achieve sustained growth through increased efficiency and competitiveness;
(b) maintain the productivity of existing assets through improved operation
and maintenance of rural infrastructure and improved management and conserva-
tion of natural resources; (c) improve the policy environment for greater
private sector participation in agricultural marketing and processing; and
(d) generate employment opportunities particularly in the Outer Islands (where
the growth of labor force is higher and nonagricultural opportunities more
limited), thus allowing the rural poor to share the benefits of growth.
The Tree Crop Subsector
1.8       Background.  Rubber, oil palm and coconuts together occupy about 5.5
million hectares, or over 20% of the cropped area in Indonesia. They provide
employment and cash income for some 151 of the agricultural labor force,
account for 16% of agricultural CDP an4 20X of non-oil/LNC export earnings,
and provide a base of growing importance for the development of related pro-
cessing and manufacturing industries. Smallholders predominate in the culti-
vation of rubber and coconuts, and oil palm is largely grown on public and
private estates, although smallholder production is increasing.
1.9       Prospects.  Significant land resources exist in the Outer Islands,
which can be utilized in a technically sound and environmentally sustainable
manner to generate growth and employment opportunities. The climate and soil
conditions on these islands provide a strong natural advantage for the
production of tree crops. It is estimated that the annual return to one
hectare of land under optimal shifting cultivation is about $120, while under
low-input food crops it is about $450, and systems with block-planted rubber
have returns to land as high as $1,100/ha. While timber production by a good.
stand of natural forest can generate high returns as well, tree crops are
planted primarily in areas formerly occupied by secondary forests, brush and
run-down plantations. Returns to household labor and capital are also much
higher in the case of tree crops compared to food crop cultivation on similar
soils.
1.10      Compared to other sectors of the economy, such as manufacturing,
tree crop development is a more cost-effective means of generating employment
and raising rural incomes in the Outer Islands: the ccst per job created in
tree crops is US$3-4,000 compared to an estimated IJS$10-20,000 per job in
industry. Tree crops are important in the economy of the Outer Islands where
growth in the labor force is high (para 1.5) and significant poverty exists
(para. 1.6), nonagricultural activities are limited, and there are virtually
no cash crop alternatives that can be developed efficiently on an environ-
mentally sustainable basis and on a large enough scale to have a major im-
pact. During Repelita III (1979-84) some 540,000 ha of rubber, oil palm and
coconuts were planted or replanted under Government programs, creating
approximately 1 million jobs, equivalent to almost 201 of all new jobs in the
Outer Islands during the period. A further 500,000-600,000 ha are being
planted during Repelita IV (1984-89). These planting programs have so far
directly benefited some 400,000 smallholder families (or about 2,000,000
people), up to 80% of whom were landless transmigrants from the target poverty
group in Java and Bali.



- 4 -
1.11      At current and projected commodity prices, production of rubber and
palm oil is economically viable. Indonesia, as a major producer of crude palm
oil (1.4 million tons p.a.) and rubber (1.1 million tons p.a.), enjoys a
competitive cost advantage over other large producing countries due to its
favorable agro-climatic conditions and low average wage rates. Even with
fairly conservative assessments of yield potential, rubber production costs
are significantly lower than projected world market prices. More important,
the costs of producing palm oil in Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, are
substantially lower than those of any other source of traded edible oil--less
than one-third the production costs of rape and sunflower oils, for example.
Since the costs of soybean production ere attributable to soymeal as well as
soybean oil, the future price competition of soybean oil will depend to a
large extent on the strength of world meal demand. However, analysis of world
supply and demand prospects for all vegetable oils and oil meals for the years
ahead indicates rising oil values with relatively tighter oil supplies. Due
to substantially lower production costs, palm oil will clearly continue to be
the most profitable edible oil commodity in the years ahead, with world market
prices well above Indonesia's production costs. Price increases in real
terms, projected by 2000 of 12X for rubber and 60% for crude palm oil over the
estimated 1987 average price, provide more than adequate incentives for
continued production increases in Indonesia.
1.12      Rubber and oil palm together cover 3.2 million ha and account for
some 271 of agricultural export earnings (averaging US$1.1 billion annually
during 1979-85). During 1984/85, while about 70% of Indonesia's export of
rubber was to the USA and Singapore, only about 2% of the palm oil exports
went to the USA, with Netherlands accounting for the largest share of
Indonesia's palm oil exports, and the shares of India and Pakistan increasing.
Between 1979 and 1986, rubber production in Indonesia grew only 2X annually.
This relatively low growth rate in comparison with the rest of the
agricultural sector was caused by declining yields from senile trees, and the
long immature period of recently planted trees. However, the next few years
should see a significant increase in the annual growth rate, to 4%, due to an
increase in total area from 2.4 million to 2.7 million ha between 1979 and
1986, mostly on smallholdings using improved planting material. Over 90% of
rubber (mostly crumb and ribbed sheet) is exported. While the domestic demand
for rubber is expected to double from 60,000 tons in 1985 to 120,000 tons by
1995, exports of rubber should grow from 1.0 million to 1.4 million tons by
1995. This growth rate of 3.4% per year is higher than the estimated growth
in world demand of 2.31 as Indonesia is expected to increase its world market
share in the face of near static production by Malaysia, the market leader.
This growtl, however, will be partially dependent on Indonesian rubber pro-
ducers keeping pace with increasingly demanding end-user requirements.
1.13      Palm oil production grew at 121 annually between 1979 and 1986 as
the total area under palm oil almost doubled from 260,000 to 500,000 ha,
mostly on public estates. There has been a rapid increase in domestic demand
in recent years (28X p.a.. between 1970 and 1984) due to growth in population
and per capita income, aided by a high income elasticity of demand for edible
oil products and stagnant supplies of coconut oil. The uses of palm oil are
also widening further due to technological developments, particularly in the
oleochemicals inidustry. Domestic demand for crude palm oil currently averages



-5-
about 50% of production and is expected to grow by 8X per year, but increased
planting rates should result in production growth of IlZ per year, leaving an
increasing surplus for export. Growing demand from developing countries,
which accounted for 11X per yea: in Indonesia's main export markets during
1978-84, should absorb this surplus and offset market constraints in more
developed countries.
1.14      The current restrained outlook for petroleum revenues has reinforced
the importance of tree crops as the key to more balanced regional development
and poverty alleviation, and as a principal source of growth in employment and
non-oil/LNG export earnings. Given the technical and economic efficiency of
tree crop development in the Outer Islands and the favorable domestic and
export market prospects, Government strategy is to continue and maintain
Indonesia's competitive cost advantage by improving efficiencies in produc-
tion, processing and marketing, for which there is still considerable poten-
tial, and thereby improving returns to low-income farmers participating in the
subsector. Key elements of this strategy aimed at increasing output per unit
of input include replanting old/senile trees to improve yields, improving
transport and processing facilities to reduce losses, and improving the
efficiency and financial performance of state enterprises engaged in the
subsector.
1.15      Structure of the Subsector.  Tree crops are cultivated by three
groups: smallholders, Government-owned estate companies (PTPs), and private
estates. Eighty-five percent of rubber is cultivated by smallholders, while
oil palm is grown almost exclusively on estates. PTPs are Government-owned,
but operate as autonomous entities reporting to th2 Departments of Agriculture
and Finance. Together, the 26 PTPs have about 270,000 ha of rubber and 160
rubber factoriei with a capacity of 1,270 tons/day; and 390,000 ha of oil palm
and 42 palm oil factories with a capacity of 1,500 tons FFB/hour. Private
rubber and oil palm estates with their own processing facilities now account
for about 50% and 30% of estate-produced rubber and palm oil, respectively.
There are also private rubber processors concentrated in ports and large
cities.
1.16      Government's primary technical support fer tree crops comes from the
Directorate General of Estates (DGE) in the Department of Agriculture.
Because of GOI's commitment to using tree crop development as a primary
vehicle for allev.ating poverty, especially in rural areas of the Outer
Islands, direct Government support for tree crops has concentrated on small-
holder programs, using two basic approaches. The first involves the formation
of geographically concentrated project management units (PMUs) within DGE
which assist smallholders to plant, replant or rehabilitate their holdings by
supplying extension advice, planting material and fertilizer, and payments for
labor. The second approach involves the use of PTPs to establish block-
planted tree crops for smallholders, often in remote sites with large numbers
of transmigrants. The PTPs also operate the processing facilities and nucleus
estates adjoining smallholder areas. Bank-assisted Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder (NES) projects and GOI-financed Perkebunan Inti Rakyat (PIR)
projects are examples of this approach. The Special Team for Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder Projects (Tim Khusus) is the unit within DGE primarily
responsible for oversight and monitoring of implementation of NES/PIR
projects.



-6-
1.17      Financing for Government-sponsored tree crop programs comes from the
Government budget, Bank Indonesia (BI; the Central Bank), state commercial
banks (particularly Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Bank Bkspor-Impor Indonesia, and
Bank Bumi Daya), the PTPs, smallholder sweat equity and external financing. A
major goal of'Government's strategy for tree crop development is to move the
financing of the subsector off-budget and onto a more commercial basis involv-
ing banking and private resources.
1.18      Several organizations are involved in the marketing of PTP output.
A Marketing Association representing the PTPs was established in 1984 and
assists them in strategic planning, market research, new product development
and the establishment of marketing and sales offices in Indonesia and over-
seas. It also advises the Minister of Agriculture on policy measures to
improve the marketing of estate crop products. Three Joint Marketing Organi-
zations act as sales agents for the PTPs, especially for exports. The Rubber
Association of Indonesia (Capkindo) was established in 1971 to provide
marketing assistance to enterprises dealing with rubber, and a similar organi-
zation, the Palm Oil Association of Indonesia (Gapki), was established in
1981.
1.19      Subsector Issues and Challenges.  The strategy of using tree crops
to increase rural employment and non-oil7LNG exports has been fundamentally
sound. However, efficient and sustainable growth of the tree crop subsector
is currently constrained by a number of institutional weaknesses, distortions
in the incentives framework, and processing inefficiencies. The high planting
targets have exceeded the management and financial resources of the implement-
ing agencies. Consequently, both quantity and quality targets have fallen
short of expectations. Major constraints have been a shortage of trained man-
power, erratic and declining Government financial support caused by cumbersome
budget mechanisms and falling petroleum prices, and inadequate institutional
coordination among Government agencies. Furthermore, many PTPs are now in
financial difficulty, due to ambitious development programs, recent low commo-
dity prices, and export taxes in earlier years when prices were high.
1.20      Government now has two major groups of challenges:
(a)  to protect Past investments by ensuring that existing trees are
properly maintained and harvested, and the raw material from those
trees is efficiently processed; and
(b)  to promote uture planting to take advantage of Indonesia's attrac-
tive competitive position in the major tree crops.
1.21      Protecting Past Investments.  Government-sponsored oil palm estate
and smallholder plantings are generally of high quality. However, smallholder
rubber plantings have suffered from major implementation problems and poten-
tial annual losses in export earnings due to substandard tree establishment
and maintenance are estimated to be US$37 million.
1.22      The substantial efforts of the past to expand tree crop planting
have not been accompanied by a sufficient expansion of processing infrastruc-
ture. Current annual losses caused by the lack of factories to process the



- 7 -
output of trees now coming into production are estimated at US$20 million. In
addition, efficient processing of the incremental output has become a major
issue for both rubber and palm oil in NES/PIR projects. Inefficiencies in the
processing of rubber and palm oil are estimated to result in a loss of US$170
million each year due to low extraction rates and poor quality output. They
may also result in 15-252 lower farm-gate prices to smallholders. Both effi-
ciency and capacity losses will increase rapidly as recent plantings reach
maturity, unless improvements are made to existing factories and mills, new
efficient factories are constructed, and overall operating efficiency
increased.
1.23      Actions already taken to address these problems include:  (a) the
curtailment of the wholly-locally financed PMU program, and a large reduction
in the NES/PIR rubber program.(only 10,000 ha planted in 1986/V7 compared to
39,000 ha in the peak year of 1982/83) to permit the implementing PMUs and
PTPs to allocate a greater share of scarce management and financial resources
to the upgrading and maintenance of existing investments; (b) issuance of a
Ministerial Decree delegating full authority for all aspects of the GOI tree
crop program (including PTPs) to the Director General of Estates;
(c) reorganizing the DGE units concerned with the implementation of PMU and
liES/PIR projects, to take advantage of the experience of the more successful
Rank-assisted programs; (d) the issuance of a Presidential decree allocating
responsibilities between DGE and the Deportment of Transmigration on sites
involving transmigrants, an issue which has adversely affected project
implementation in the past; and (e) commencement of a series of finar.cial/
technical studies of the PTPs to determine ways to improve their financial
performance and alleviate implementation problems caused by management and
efficiency shortfalls and by poor cash flow management.
1.24      The above actions have already had a positive impact particularly in
the PIR rubber program.  However, the standard of rubber planting remains
generally unsatisfactory. Two other major efforts now in the final stages of
preparation are: (a) a program to construct new factories urgently required
for NES/PIR projects; and (b) a program to train additional staff for
implementing agencies, especially those dealing with maintenance, smallholder
extension and processing. Further actions under discussion include:
(a) strengthening of the role of DGE to provide coordination and oversight for
smallholder areas developed by PTPs in the NES/PIR program; (b) the establish-
ment of an inspection service for tree crop projects; (c) a program to provide
large-scale rehabilitation of existing substandard areas; (d) improvement of
budget procedures to ensure that PTPs and PMUs receive adequate funding for
smallholder projects on time; and (e) establishment of farmer groups to assist
maintenance and harvesting, initial processing and marketing, together with
strengthening of extension services.
1.25      Promoting Future Planting.  The measures described above to improve
the quality and efficiency of field maintenance and processing will also bene-
fit future plantings. However, by themselves these measures will not elimi-
nate the fundamental financial and management constraints to the new planting
required to optimize the use of tree crops to alleviate poverty and increase
nonpetroleum exports. For this new planting to take place, the most important



- 8 -
issues are the need to: (a) increase cost recovery from smallholder benefici-
aries; (b) improve the financial/technial performance of the PTPs; (c) mobi-
lize private sector resources; (d) increase the supply of trained manpower;
and (e) ov;ircome remaining institutional bottlenecks.
1.26      Existing smallholder programs are based on credit schemes whereby
smallholders receive inputs to develop their holdings and undertake to repay
the cost of those inputs, with interest, to a state comrcial bank. Because
of a long grace period corresponding to the immature phase of the trees, prob-
lems with smallholder repayment have only recently surfaced. They concern
delays in surveying smallholder land for issuance of land titles and assessing
the quality of the tree crop areas-steps which are required prior to the
start of loan repayment--and delays by the participating state commercial
banks to establish branches and set up individual smallholder accounts. In
view of receit low commodity prices and the existence of substantial
substandard areas, a review is underway of the debt repayment capability of
the smallholders, particularly in the early years after maturity when yields
are low. GOI has indicated that it will make some modifications in the credit
package following this review.
1.27      Although their long-term prospects are good, the PTPs have suffered
in recent years from severe cash flow problems due to low commodity prices,
ambitious development targets, and, in many cases, poor operational and finan-
cial management. The corporate management and finances of the PTPs are now
under review in a series of studies being carried out under the Bank-assisted
NES VII project. Broader actions possible for improving the performance of
the PTPs include the introduction of an incentive program for PTPs to give
more attention to their smallholder dervlopment role, and rationalization of
the PTPs on a geographic and/or crop bisis.  In the longer term, Government
wishes to relieve much of the PTPs' burden for executing NES/PIR projects by
mobilizing private sector resources, a.t described below, and may in addition
consider administrative reforms of soue or all of the PTPs.
1.28      In contrast with the rapid increase of PTP and smallholder plantings
in the 1980s, the area under private estates has remained stagnant, due to low
commodity prices and uncertainty about Government policies on key matters such
as land titles and export taxes. Government's strategy now is to create an
environment that would encourage increased private sector participation in the
production, processing and marketing of tree crops, particularly in NES/PIR
projects. The major policy directions to improve the environment for
increased private sector participation woul4 include the following: (a)
rationalization of policies relating to export restrictions, obligatory domes-
tic saleo, price controls and export taxes for crude palm oil; (b) review of
the policy requirement that private nucleus estates also must develop large
smallholder areas and provide initial financing for smallholders; (c) review
of the policies affecting domestic manufacture of processing equipment and/or
their importation; (d) streamlining procedures for land titling, obtaining
usufruct as well as business and operating licenses for tree crop establish-
ment and processing; and (e) establishment of effective and industry-wide
pricing formulas for smallholder rubber and oil palm fresh fruit bunches
(FFB), under which the private estate would operate in a NES/PIR project.



1.29      With respect to nonfinancial constraints to future planting, the
most important tasks are to: (a) increase the number of trained staff for
carrying out tree crop projects; and (b) improve institutional arrangements
between different agencies dealing with tree crops. As described earlier,
some measures have already been taken, including the preparation of a program
for subsector manpower development. Regarding institutional arrangements, the
emphasis in the future should be to further strengthen the role of D6E,
including strengthening its capability to review major investment proposals
and PTP performance against physical and financial standards, and addressing
key problems of smallholder pricing, processing and marketing.
1.30      Environmental Protection.  In addition 4o the issues described
above, a growing problem associated with the tree crop subsector is increased
pollution caused by tree crop processing facilities. In particular, liquid
effluents from palm oil factories can cause serious water pollution if dis-
charged directly into rivers and lakes without treatment. In many instances,
effluent treatment has either not been installed or is so poorly designed or
operated that the treatment has been ineffective. Provincial authorities are
responsible for enforcement of pollution control regulations, but institu-
tional arrangements are inadequate to monitor or control industrial waste
discharges.
1.31      GOI has been working in the irrigation, water supply and urban sec-
tors to develop arrangements for pollution monitoring and control which can be
implemented adequately at the provincial level. Considerable progress has
already been made under the Bank-assisted East Java II Water Supply Project
and in June 1987 new Government regulations were issued to bring existing fac-
tories into compliance with GOI effluent standards. Government's strategy for
improving environmental protection in the tree crop processing subsector is
to: (a) ensure that effluent treatment in new factories is adequately
designed and constructed; (b) study and implement the actions required to
bring existing factories into compliance with environmental regulations; and
(c) continue to improve the ability of provincial authorities to adequately
monitor and control industrial pollution.
Rank Role and Subsector Strategy
1.32      The Bank has committed about US$800 million net of loan cancella-
tions to four PMU and seven NES tree crop projects, averaging more than one
project per year during the late 1970s and early 1980s. Two Project Comple-
tion Reports have been completed: for the North Sumatra Smallholder
Development Project (Credit 358-IND) in 1982, and for the Smallholder Rubber
Development Project I (Credit 984-IND) in 1987. Two other Project Completion
Reports for tree crop projects are now under preparation. In general, while
Bank-assisted tree crop projects have had better results than other GOI-
financed projects, they have also suffered from the significant manpower,
financial and institutional constraints that arose from the ambitious
expansion program and affected the whole subsector. Due in part to
implementation problems in existing projects, planting targets were scaled
down for Repelita IV and no new Bank-assisted NES projects have been approved
since 1983. The last PHU project was approved in 1985. Through the recently
approved Tree Crops Human Resouce Development Project, the Bank will assist



- 10 -
Government in strengthening the Department of Agriculture's Directorate
General of Estates.  The Indonesia Major Tree Crop Sector Report (No. 5318-
I[D$ April 1985) and the Indonesia Mon-Oil Export Report (No. 6356-IND;
December 1986) both reasserted the importance of tree crops to Indonesia's
economic development, and endorsed Government's long-term strategy of using
tree crops as an effective means of promoting rural employment, non-oil
exports, and regional development. Bank support is considered important to
further build upon recently initiated institutional and policy reforms
(paras. 1.23-1.24), especially at a time when macroeconomic constraints
dictate an external debt strategy which minimizes con_trcial borrowings.
Continuing involvement of the Bank in the Indonesian tree crop subsector,
through supervision of existing projects, economic and sector work, and sup-
port for new operations, would be aimed at assisting Government in:
(a) supporting smallholder tree crop programs to help alleviate poverty,
promote regional development in the Outer Islands, and increase non-
oil/LNG exports;
(b) maintaining an appropriate balance between consolidating the sub-
stantial existing investments in the subsector (with improved qual-
ity and efficiency), and expanding the area under tree crops through
new planting;
Cc) improving the policy environment of the tree crop subsector, partic-
ularly in areas related to cost recovery and finance, by improving
the efficiency and financial performance of state enterprises,
mobilizing greater private sector and commercial bank resources, and
overcoming problems in delivering and recovering smallholder credit;
and
Cc) supporting institutional development for tree crops by: (i)
strengthening and rationalizing responsibilities among Government
agencies; (ii) promoting human development including the effective
delivery of technical advice to smallholders, estates and proces-
sors; (iii) developing effective pollution monitoring and control
systems for processing facilities; and (iv) improving field, proces-
sing and marketing research.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.33      The project would complement the Bank's past and ongoing support for
the tree crop subsector by ensuring that the raw material produced as a result
of earlier investments (some in Bank-financed NES projects and all involving
smllholders) is processed and marketed efficiently. Because of its world-
wide experience in the subsector, Bank support for the project would also
assist in addressing technical, environmental, institutional, and marketing
constraints on the efficiency of the processing sector as a whole.



- 11 -
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Prepsration
2.1       The project has been prepared by the Special Team for Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder"Projects (Tim ghusus/TKPIR) within the Directorate General of
Estates (DGE). 'Draft preparation reports were submitted to Bank missions in
November 1986 and March 1987 and the final preparation report was issued prior
to the Bank appraisal mission in July 1987*
Project Obiectives
2.2       During Repelita III (1979-84), rndonesia planted over 350,000 ha of
rubber an. oil palm, and many of these plantings are now coming to maturity.
Although the required processing facilities were identified at the time of
planting, for many NES/PIR sites funding has not been provided in on-going
projects because the factory requirements fell outside the project period.
While in earlier years when the tree crop program was smaller and export
prices higher, the PTPs were able to finance new processing facilities from
retained earnings, most are not currently in a position to do so. Therefore,
Government has prepared this project specifically to address the need for
increasing processing capacity and efficiency in existing NES/PIR sites.
2.3       The project's primary objectives are to raise the productivity and
efficiency of the tree crop subsector, safeguard smallholder and estate
incomes, and increase non-oil exports by providing essential processing
facilities and addressing technical, institutional and marketing constraints
on factory efficiency, generate rural employment, and improve smallholder
increases in the Outer Islands. The project would accomplish this by:
(a) building new factory capacity to process the raw material from existing
NS8/PIR projects; (b) providing technical assistance and other support to
improve processing efficiency; and (c) strengthening the ability of DCE and
related Government agencies (including those concerned with environmental
protection) to provide technical, institutional, marketing and other support
to the tree crop subsector, through technical assistance, training and
studies.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1       Components.  Project components are as follows:
(a)  Processing Facilities (Credit component)
(i) Construction and expansion of 11 rubber and 14 palm oil facto-
ries, including effluent control and associated housing.
(ii)  Vehicles needed at each new or expanded factory site.
(iii)  Training of PTP staff to provide the manpower skills to operate
new and expanded factories.



- 12 -
(iv) Technical assistance to the PTPs to review the operations of
the existing factories, to train and coordinate the training of
engineering staff, and to monitor the construction and commis-
sioning of new and expanded factories.
(v) Working capital.
(b) Project Support (Non-credit component)
(i)  Environmental protection including the strengthening of pollu-
tion monitoring units in two project provinces, and a survey to
determine the current status of effluent control in existing
PTP factories.
(ii) Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) including technical assistance
and other support to DGE (Tim Khusus).
(iii) Training of DGE and related agency personnel with responsibili-
ties in the tree crop processing subsector.
(iv) Studies: (i) technical studies to develop and recommend more
efficient processing methods taking account of local conditions
and the structure of the Indonesian tree crop subsector; and
(ii) non-technical studies of rubber marketing and long-term
processing needs.
(v)  Start-up funds related to future tree crop projects, including
possible introduction of advanced tree crop processing
technology.
Processing Facilities
3.2       The scope of the factory component is based on an evaluation of the
needs of the PTPs for rubber and palm oil factories to process the output of
existing NES/PIR nucleus estates and surrounding smallholdings. This program
would cover the processing needs for factories which need to be commissioned
by 1992/93 and would include,20 sites in 9 provinces and involve 12 PTPs which
would own and operate the factories. Project sites and PTPs are shown in Map
No. 20265.
3.3       The project would include the following factories:
(a) Rubber factories. The additional rubber processing capacity
provided by the project would be 210 tons/day, consisting of:
(i)  Construction of 7 new crumb rubber factories with a total
capacity of 130 tons/day.
(ii) Expansion of 4 existing crumb rubber factories with an
additional capacity of 80 tons/day.
(iii) Construction of coagulation centers at one site.



- 13 -
(b) Palm oil factories. The additional FFB processing capacity provided
by the project would be 450 tons FFB/hour, consisting of:
(i) Construction of 9 new crude palm oil factories with a total
capacity of 300 tons FFr/hour.
(ii) Expansion of 5 existing crude palm oil factories with an
additional capacity of 150 tons FOB/hour.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF FACTORY REQUIREMENTS
Year /a                88/89     89/90      90/91     91/92     92/93      Total
Rubber Factories
New Construction    CC /b        0          1         1         5          7
Expansion              0         1          1         1         1          4
Capacity
(tons rubber/day)      -         20        40        40        110       210
Palm Oil Factories
New Construction       0         0          6         2         1          9
Expansion              0         0          0         1         4          5
Capacity
(tons FFB/hr)          -         -        210        90        150       450
ia   Refers to the year the factory would be commissioned.  See Annex 2,
Tables 1 and 2 for the detailed factory requirements per site and per
year.
lb   Coagulation centers at PTP XIII - Sintang, West Kalimantan.
3.4       The above requirements for new or expanded rubber and pa'sw oil
factories have been determined based on the followiag data: (a) the amount of
expected production to be processed from NES!PIRtprojects or local non-project
plantings, (b) the availability of existing spare local processing capacity,
and (c) the minimum size of factories for efficient operation (see Annex 2,
Appendix A). The data related to (a) and (b) were collected from the PTPs and
reviewed during field visits to all project sites.
3.5       Standardizaltion of processing facilities.  Because of the large
program of new factory construction under the project as well as the expected
needs in the future, standardized factory designs would be used to the extent
possible to construct and operate the required facilities. The advantages of
standardized designs are that they lead to (a) faster preparation of tenders;
(b) reduced construction time and costs; and (c) simplified and more familiar
operating procedures and staffing. DCE is hiring consultants to carry out
design standardization studies for rubber and palm oil factories (to be



- 14 -
financed under the on-going YES VII project) for which terms of reference
(TOR) have been prepared by Tim Khusus and reviewed by the Bank (see Annex 5,
TORe 1 and 2).  To maximize their impact on project factories, the design
standardization studies should be started as early as possible for the results
to be available in preparing tender documents for the second group of project
factories.  The evaluation of proposals from consultants is now in its final
stages and work is expected to start before end-1988.  Because of the need to
construct six urgent palm oil factories immediately, it will not be possible
to utilize the full results of the palm oil standardization study in the
design of these factories. However, technical specifications have been
prepared by DGE and the PTPs, and reviewed by the Bank, for "pre-standardized"
designs to be used based on existing experience and standards that have been
developed in Indonesia.
3.6       Engineering Consultancy for Individual Factories.  It will be
necessary for the PTPs to recruit consultant engineers for each factory to
ensure proper execution of the construction contracts. TOR have been prepared
by Tim Khusus and reviewed by the Bank (see Annex 5, TOR 3). The work to be
undertaken by the engineering consultants would includes
(a) Preliminary Design Stage (excluding urgent palm oil factories)
Immediately before tendering, review of the justification of each
factory based on actual NES/PIR and nearby non-NES/PIR plantings,
crop projections and the existence of any local processing facili-
ties.
(b)  Main Design and Construction Stage
(i)  Tender preparation incorporating standard specifications as
determined by the design standardization study and incorporat-
ing the civil engineering characteristics specific to indivi-
dual sites.
(ii) The technical appraisal of bids and advice on their relative
merits.
(iii)  The supervision of the contracts during construction through to
commissioning and hand-over to the PTP.
(iv) The provision of monthly reports to the PTP, through the
Project Implementation Unit, reviewing physical progress and
costs to completion of the contract (para. 5.6).
(v)  Preparation of proposals for operation and training.
3.7       The work is expected to extend for two years for rubber factories
and for three years for palm oil factories and is expected to require about 28
and 63 man-months respectively per factory. The engineering consultancy work
for the main design stage of individual factories should only start after the
review has confirmed the justification for the factories based on the avail-
able data. Letters of invitation to an agreed short list for these



- 15 -
consultants have been sent for the six urgent palm oil factories. Recruitment
and mobilization of these consultants would be a condition of disbursement for
each factory site (para. 7.3a).
3.8       Vehicles.  Vehicles are needed at each factory site, especially to
bring the harvested raw material from the field to the factory. In most
recent projects, vehicle purchases have been treated as reserved procurement
and thus ineligible for IBRD financing. However, due to recent changes in 001
procurement procedures, vehicles will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and therefore will be financed by the Bank under
this project.
3.9       Working Capital.  When a factory is commissioned the PTP will need
working capital for cash on hand, raw material and final product inventories,
spare parts, etci This working capital is estimated as the cost of spare
parts (shown as 52 of factory investment costs) plus the equivalent of two
months' cost of the factory's normal raw material purchase (rubber or FFB).
Staffins and Training
3.10      General.  The project would train project factories personnel and
selected staff of DGE and related Government agencies. This approach was
indicated during project preparation when it was determined that:
(a) No program of systematic processing related training was available
to the subsector.
(b)  The subsector training institution, Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan
(LPP), hid neither experience nor capacity to provide such training.
(c) 1o processing training coordinating mechanism was available to the
PTPs.
3.11      This project has therefore focused its training component on:
(a) Meeting the immediate management and operating needs of personnel
responsible for the operation and maintenance of project factories.
(b) Providing subsector capacity for processing expertise through
training for staff of DCE and related Government agencies.
(c) Laying the foundation for post-project processing training
coordination by making provision for LPP staff development in the
area of processing technology and management.
3.12      The project will construct suitably equipped modest training
facilities (classroom and dormitory space for 25 trainees) for palm oil
processing at one of the new palm oil factories (PTP V, Riau), and develop,
field test and evaluate processing training courses, materials and methodology
which would be used post project to extend training to n'n-project PTP
personnel.



- 16 -
3.13      Factory Staffins and Training.  The efficient operation of process-
ing facilities requires highly specialised and well-trained engineers and
supporting technical staff. At the present time, there is a shortage of PTP
personnel to meet the requirements of the existing factories and therefore
additional staff would have to be recruited and trained for the new or
expanded factories. Based on (a) the number of staff required to operate
rubber and palm oil factories of standard capacity, and (b) the number of
factories to be built or expanded under the project, about 850 staff would
require training. Most of the training would be practical atd carried out at
the training facilities built under the project (para. 3.12), in existing PTP
factories, and in machinery supplier workshops. Theoretical training would be
provided by short courses in the LPP institutes at Medan and Yogyakarta. In
addition, training for selected senior factory managers (consisting 3f the
factory manager, assistant factory manager and maintenance engineer) would be
provided at overseas locations. Details of the project's training program are
contained in Annex 2, Appendix C. Training of the PTP staff would be coordi-
nated by the training consultant in Tim Khusus (para. 3.27 and Annex 5,
TOR 6).
3.14      An assurance was obtained at negotiations that, because of the
critical role for efficient processing, senior managers for a given factory
would be appointed and trained six months before factory commissioning.
Training for all other categories of staff would be completed prior to factory
commissioning.
3.15      Government Agency Training.  There is at present no structured
training program for staff of the DGE in the area of processing and no
existing or planned project has addressed processing manpower weaknesses in a
systematic manner. Therefore, training would be provided under tha project
support (non-credit) component of this project to staff members of DGE and
related agencies to strengthen the capacity of these agencies in the tree crop
processing subsector. Training would include Master's degree courses and
short-term courses. Details are contained in Annex 2, Appendix C.
Technical Assistance
3.16      To ensure the successful implementation of the project, and improve
processing efficiency in existing PTP factories, each project PTP would
recruit a rubber and/or palm oil processing consultant(s) with international
experience to be attached to its headquarters. Directly reporting to the PTP
First Directors, these consultants would: (a) review the operations of the
PTP existing processing facilities with a view to improving their efficiency;
(b) liaise with the engineering consultants supervising the construction and
commissioning of new or expanded factories; (c) coordinate the training
programs for factory staff with the Tim Khusus training consultant; and
(d) set up monitoring and evaluation systems for all factory operations (see
Annex 5, TOR 4).
3.17      The consultants would be employed from the start of construction
until one year after commissioning for a new construction; and 1/2 year after
commissioning for an expansion. This means that in the case of palm oil
factories, the consultants would be needed for 3 years for new construction



- 17 -
and 1 1/2 years for factory expansion; in the case of rubber factories,
2 years for new construction and 1 1/2 years for factory expansion (see
Annex 1, Table 9).
3.18      Letters of invitation to an agreed short list for these PTP consul-
tants h zve been sent for the six urgent palm oil factories. Recruitment and
mobilization of the PTP headquarters processing consultant(s) (rubber and/or
palm oil processing engineer) wc4ld be a condition of disbursement for the new
construction or expansion of factories for the relevant PTP (para. 7.3a).
V!,wvironmental Protection
3.19      A serious environmental problem associated with tree crop processing
facilities is water pollution caused by factory effluents. A recent GOI regu-
lation, No. 29/1986, pertaining to the Analysis of Impacts upon the Environ-
ment, became effective on June 5, 1987, and requires that all existing fac-
tories be brought into compliance with GOt effluent standards. Simple, easy
to operate technologies have been developed in Malaysia to treat rubber and
palm oil factory effluents using an anaerobic/facilitative ponding system.
These measures can be adopted in Indonesia and all project factories would be
provided with suitably designed liquid effluent t-reatment facilities.
3.20      The proposed environmental protection program which is being
incorporated into this project has three elementes
(a)  For factories to be financed under the project, either as a new
facility, or as an expansion of an existing one, liquid effluent
treatment capacity would be installed to meet 60I effluent
standards.
(b)  For existing PTP factories which are not included within this
project, consultants would be appointed to assess the current status
of effluent treatment, and to estimate the investment requirements
for upgrading existing effluent control facilities or installing new
capacity to meet 001 effluent standards (see Annex 5, TOR 10). The
survey would not be limited to rubber and palm oil factories but
would include existing PTP processing facilities for all crops.
Because the investment requirements are difficult to estimate in
advance of the survey, and are likely to be quite large, funding for
upgrading effluent control in existing non-project PTP factories has
not heen provided in this project, but could be considered
subsequently for external assistance.
(c)  For strengthening existing pollution monitoring capabilities in
North Sumatra and West Kalimantan and studying options for future
institutional arrangements in these two provinces, consultant
services and other support would be provided as the initial stage of
a longer-term CO objective to establish effective monitoring and
control institutions in all provinces of Indonesia. The
strengthening of pollution monitoring capabilities, covering all
sources of pollution, has been limited to two project provinces in
order to keep the component manageable at this initial stage, but



- 18 -
subsequently the results could readily be replicated in other
provinces.
3.21      In relation to (c) above, the provincial office of the Public Works
Department (PU Kanwil) has the legal authority to cover water pollution
monitoring. However, most of the these offices are poorly equipped and do not
have the resources to undertake any monitoring activities. Separate Public
Works units (PU Dinas), reporting directly to the Governor, are responsible
for issuing industrial waste discharge permits. However, the units issue
permits as a routine activity without determining the water pollution
imo)lications, nor do they verify from monitoring data whether the industries
a.e conforming to the waste discharge permit. By strengthening pollution
monitoring capabilities in North Sumatra and West Kalimantan, the project will
enable provincial authorities to systematically and accurately carry out their
legally mandated monitoring on a routine basis. This will include not only
tree crop processing factories, but also the other industrial and domestic
waste discharges. Consultants would be provided to make an assessment of the
current status and availability of existing laboratory facilities, the extent
of pollution monitoring (PU Kanwil), the procedures for issuing discharge
permits (PU Dinas), the st&tus of Governors' decrees relating to pollution
monitoring in the provinces, the availability and experiences of laboratory
technicianst and the effectiveness of quality control over laboratory
procedures, as well as the collection, preservation, transport and storage of
samples for analysis. Recommendations would be made for strengthening
insLitutional arrangements for pollution monitoring and control, the
analytical capabilities of the laboratories, and making the most effective use
of facilities and staff. The consultants would provide training to laboratory
staff to improve quality control of the monitoring process from sampling
through to processing of analytical results. Capital and operating budgets
will be prepared and staffing levels estimated to meet the requirements of the
expanded program and the quality control objectives. External quality checks
by national institutes such as Institute of Hydraulic Engineering at Bandung
would be instituted, since the ultimate objective is for these laboratories to
be integrated into a pollution monitoring and control function for each
province. The terms of reference for this work is given in Annex 5, TOR 11.
3.22      Draft letters of invitation for consultants for strengthening
provincial pollution monitoring in North Sumatra and West Kalimantan and for
the survey of existing PTP factories have been submitted to the Bank for
review. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government would
submit an action plan by December 31, 1990 satisfactory to the Bank to bring
all existing PTP factories into compliance with GOI effluent control
regulations.
Studies
3.23      Technical Studies.  To improve the processing efficiency of the
PTPs, a number of technical studies are required to develop and recommend the
most efficient processing methods for rubber and FFB, taking into account the
specific characteristics of tree crop production in Indonesia and particularly
the different types of raw material produced by estates and smallholders. The
main topics covered by these studies would be (a) for oil palm: the use of



- 19 -
empty bunches as fertilizer, and certain characteristics of CPO and palm
kernel oil; (b) for rubbert characteristics of raw material, dry rubber
content determination, and processing methods adapted to different types of
raw material; (c) for both oil palm and rubber: effluent monitoring
techniques. These studies would be carried out under contract from DGE by
Indonesian tree crop research institutes under the auspices of the Agency for
Agricultural Research and Develo .2nt. A proposal covering 5 years has been
prepared by Tim Khusus with the Research Institutes and has been reviewed by
the Bank (see Annex 1, Tables 11 and 12). This propoasl covers the most
urgent research requirements for tree crop proce.sing and is expected to be
consistent with, and could later form part of, an anticipated master plan for
Indonesia's overall agricultural research activities to be prepared by the
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development.
3.24      These studies would be undertaken as early as possible in 1988/89
for their findings and recommendations to be made available to the factories
proposed under the project. Draft contracts between DGE and Tree Crop
Research Institutes would be finalized before end-1988.
3.25      Other studies proposed under the project are listed in Annex
Table 13 and include:
(a) Rubber Marketing. The Natural Rubber (NR) market is very complex
due to the large number of types and grades of MR produced and
traded such as latex, sheet, crumb, and crepe. Given the proposed
program of construction of rubber factories under the project and
the expected long-term requirements for large additional rubber
processing capacity in Indonesia, a rubber marketing study would be
useful to"indicate possible marketing strategies for GOI. The study
would (i) evaluate the long-term trends for domestic and
international demand, and potential profitability for the Cifferent
types and grades of rubber produced in Indonesia; (ii) review
current marketing channels and industry organizations dealing with
marketing issues; and (iii) make recommendations on available
marketing strategies (see Annex 5, TOR 12).
(b)  Long-Term Requirements for Rubber and Palm Oil Proce
Facilities. In order to plan the systematic development of the
processing subsector, it is necessary to determine the long-term
requirements for rubber and palm oil factories in Indonesia. The
proposed study would start following issuance of the draft reports
for the Rubber Marketing Study to build upon their findings with the
aim of formulating appropriate strategies and investment programs,
particularly taking into account the evolving roles of the public
and private sectors (see Annex 5, TOR 13).
3.26      Revised Terms of Reference for these studies have been submitted by
DGE to the Bank. The studies are expected to be completed by e-i-1989.



- 20 -
Monitoring and Evaluation Component
3.27      Tim Khusus would be responsible for overall monitoring and evalua-
tion of project implementation and for preparation of progress reports to the
Bank, as in various Bank-supp,ited NES projects (para. 5.4).  Because of the
additional volume of data collection, analysis and reporting, the project
would provide for the existing Monitoring and Analysis Division in Tim Khusus
to be strengthened by at least five additional technical staff members, two
consultants (an M&E specialist and a training specialist), each for three
years, additional support staff and three microcomputers. Provision has also
been made in this project for continuing for three additional years the
services of the Tim Khusus consultant rubber and palm oil processing advisers
now being financed by the Bank under the NES VII project. Draft letters of
invitation for the M&E and training consultants have been submitted to the
Bank for review. The additional technical staff for the Monitoring ard
Analysis Division have been recruited and are in post.
Start-Up Funds
3.28      As in previous Bank-assisted tree crop projects, funds have been
provided for the preparation of future tree crop projects, especially those
related to the rehabilitation and construction of processing facilities. The
project alo includes funds (US$1.0 million) for the possible introduction of
advanced tree crop processing technology at PTP V. However, since this
technology is still under development, detailed technical, financial, and
economic analyses would be required prior to the Bank's final agreement to
disburse against this component.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Costs
4.1       Total project costs excluding interest during construction are
estimated at US$180.4 million, including US$13.9 million (8X) in taxes and
US$101.5 million (562) in foreign exchange. Base costs are expressed in mid-
1988 values. Detailed cost tables are included in the Project File. Summary
project cost tables are shown .in Annex 1.
4.2       Quantities and costs are based on the DGE preparation report
prepared in 1987 and reviewed during appraisal in July 1987. They are consis-
tent with other rubber and oil palm projects financed by the Bank. Cost
estimates include physical contingencies estimated at 82 on factory costs, 1OZ
on houstng, and 15X on vehicles. Estimated price contingencies are equivalent
to 132 of base costs plus physical contingencies and are based on the expected
price increases shown in Table 4.2.
4.3       Interest during construction is shown in Table 4.1 for the interest
chargeable to the PTPs by the two state commercial banks (SCBs) for the
processing facilities (credit) component. During the grace period (covering
most of the project period) this interest would not be paid, but would accrue
and thus be financed by the SCBs.



- 21 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMDARY /a
Foreign X of total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  exchange  base cost
--- (Rp billion) ---   -- (US$ million) --- X
Factory Component
Factories              47.6    88.6   136.2   28.7    53.4    82.1         65         55
Housing                19.1     6.3    25.4   11.5       3.8    15.3       25         10
Vehicles                5.3    21.1    26.4    3.2    12.7    15.9         80         11
Tech Assistance/
Training            18.6    11.8    30.4   11.2      7.1    18.3        39         12
Initial Working
Capital              11.3     1.3    12.6    6.8      0.8      7.6       11          5
Subtotal           101.9   129.1   231.0   61.4    77.8   139.2         56         93
Support Component
Environmental
Protection            1.2     2.1      3.3    0.8     1.2      2.0       62          1
Tech. Assistance/
Training             1.5     4.1      5.6    0.9     2.5      3.4       74          2
Studies                 1.4     2.6      4.0    0.8      1.6     2.4       66          2
Start-up Funds          0.8     4.2      5.0    0.5     2.5      1.0       83          2
Subtotal             4.9    13.0    17.9    3.0      7.8    10.8        72          7
Total Base Costs /b    106.8   142.1   248.9   64.4    85.6   150.0           57       100
Physical
contingencies /c       6.3    10.6    16.9    3.8      6.4    10.2        63          7
Price contingenJes/d 17.8    15.8    33.6   10.7        9.5    20.2        47         13
Total  zoject Costs    130.9   168.5   299.4   78.9   101.5   180.4           56       120
Interest d'*ring
construction           66.4    30.9    97.3   40.0    18.6    58.6         32         39
Total Financing
Required              197.3   199.4   396.7  118.9   120.1   239.0         50        159
/a   US$1.00 - Rp 1,660.
7T   Including taxes and duties estimated at US$13.9 million.  Total project costs
excluding taxes and duties are estimated at US$166.5 million.
/c   Total physical contingencies are 7% of base costs.
7i   Local price contingencies are 16% and foreign price contingencies are 10% of the
respective base costs plus physical contingencies.



- 22 -
Table 4.2: EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES (X)
Calendar Year                                  1988    1989      1990+
Local                                           5.0     5.0       6.0
Foreign                                         3.0     3.0       4.0
Financing
4.4       General.  The total financing required is estimated to be US$239.0
million equivalent, including taxes and duties of US$13.9 million, interest
during construction of US$58.6 million, and direct and *'ndirect foreign
exchange costs of US$101.5 million. The proposed Bunk loan of US$118.2 mil-
lion equivalent (about 49Z of total financing required, and 52X of the total
financing excluding taxes and duties) would cover part of the costs of
factories, housing, vehicles, technical assistance, training, monitoring and
evaluation, the environmental component, and start-up funds for the
preparation of new projects and the possible introduction of advanced tree
crop processing technology. Financing for the factory component would also be
provided by 8 of the 12 PTPs who would own and operate the factories (81 of
total project financing or US$19.6 million), and two state commercial banks
(411 or US$98.7 million). 'JOI would provide US$700,000 (less than 1% of total
project financing) to cover costs of identifiable taxes for the project's
support component and the incremental staff costs for the monitoring and
evaluation component. The Covernment of Japan would provide US$1.8 million
for technical assistance to the Monitoring and Analysis Division of Tim
Khusus, DCI. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in
Annex 1, Table 1.
4.5       Factory Financing.  The cost sharing percentage for IBRD financing
of the credit component (factories and related subcomponents, but excluding
interest during construction) would be 65%. As described below, this would be
provided as both equity (through the Department of Finance) and debt (through
the SC8s). Consistent with Government's goal of moving the financing of tree
crop development to a more commercial basis, there is no Government budgetary
support for the factory component of this project. In addition, subsidized BI
liquidity credits, which have been used in previous programs, have been
excluded from this project and the SCBs will act as financial intermediaries
on a commercial basis, bearing 10OZ of the default risk. Furthermore, the
interest rate to the PTPs will be increased to 16% from 12-13.5% in existing
programs.
4.6       Equity.  The debt:equity ratio for each factory would be 65:35 which
is consistent with Government guidelines and coumercial practice. Each PTP
would invest 0X-35% of its total project costs as equity from its own
resources, depending on the strength of its financial position. Three of the
12 project PTPs are financially strong enough to fund all of their 35% equity



- 23 -
contributions from thair own resources. Some PTPs, however, are too finan-
cially constrained to finance their full 351 equity portion due to cash
shortages caused, e.g., by very low recent commodity prices, and the costs of
implementing on-going development programs. Four of the project PTPs are so
financially constrained that all the equity contribution for the factories in
this project needs to come from fresh equity infusions from GOI. The
remaining five PTPs are judged able to contribute half the required 351 equity
from their own resources and would need the remainder in fresh DOF equity.
For this project the fresh DOF equity needed for the financially weak PTP.
would be financed by IBRD. In accordance with normal GOI practice, for admin-
istrative reasons this would initially be in the form of an interest free
loan, on-lent through DOF to the PTPs, which would be accounted for as equity
on the PTP balance sheet, and formally converted to equity within 6 months of
the last IBRD disbursement.
4.7       The determination of how much equity a PTP could provide (all, half
or none) from its own resources has been determined by reviewing its most
recent financial statements. The amount each PTP would invest is shown in
Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5. Through the Bank-financed YES VII project, corporate
studies are being carried out for all PTPs involved in the Tree Crop
Processing Project, and are scheduled for completion by end-1988. Despite the
current short term financial problems of many PTPs, their long-term outlook is
good, especially as the large plantings of the recent past, now a major cash
drain, reach maturity, and commodity prices continue to recover. Assurances
were obtained that COI would prepare by June 30, 1989 for each project PTP, an
action plan satisfactory to the Bank, based on the Bank-financed corporate
studies, to address financial and other issues identified by the studies.
Before June 30, 1989, each of the five PTPs with factories in the first group
of six palm oil factories would submit and commence implementation of a
preliminary action plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.2).
4.8       Debt.  Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia (BEII) and Bank Bumi Daya (BBD)
would be the state comuercial banks (SCBs) in the project. As described below
the SCBs would lend the PTPs funds provided from their own resources combined
with on-lent IBRD funds. A list of the proposed project sites by SCB is shown
in Annex 1, Table 4.
4.9       Because the cost sharing percentage for IBRD financing of the credit
component (excluding interest during construction) would be a constant 651,
the share of IBRD financing on-lent as debt financing to the SCBs for a given
factory will depend upon the share of IBRD equity financing. For example, if
IBRD would finance the full 351 equity portion of a factory, only 301 would be
available for IBRD financing of the debt. The remaining debt financing would
be provided from the SCB's own funds. Table 4.3 shows the three financing
plans for the project. For the four project PTP. who would finance all their
equity, Category A applies. Similarly, Categories B and C apply to the PTP.
which will put up half and none of the equity, respectively. Overall, the
credit component of the project (excluding interest during construction) will
be financed 651 by IBRD, 231 by the SCBs and 121 by the PTPs (see Annex 1,
Table 5).



- 24 -
Table 4.3: FINANCING ARRANCEMENTS
Category A:         Category B:         Category C:
PTPs Investing      PTPs Investing       PTPs Investing
1001 of Equity /a   501 of Equity /b    02 of Equity /c
Equity:
PTP self-financed equity          35Z               17.5X                  0O
IBRD financed equity              0                17.5X                  351
Total equity                  35X                 351                  35Z
Debt:
SCB self-financed debt             01               17.51                  351
IBRD financed debt                651               47.51                  30X
Total debt                    651                 651                  651
Total Capitalization               1001                 1001                1001
/a   PTPs VII, XIII, XXIII.
Jb   PTPs III, V, VI, XVIII, XXVI.
7-c  PTPs I, IV, IX, X.
.ote:     Annex 1, Table 4 shows the financing plan by project site, and Annex 1,
Table 5 showis the financing plan by PTP and SCB.
4.10      8CB Cost of Funds and Spreads.  The SCB cost of funds, excluding
write-offs, provision for bad debt and overheads is about 10-14X. The cost of
funds is defined as the weighted average cost that an SCB pays for demand
deposits (checking accounts), savings accounts, term deposits and any other
sources of cash used for its lending, with the exception of subsidized 8I
liquidity credits. IBRD money on-lent to the SCBs through DOF for this
project would be at 101. As shown in Annex 1, Table 8, the SCB spreads for
the project would range from 3.81 to 6.01, depending on the SCB's own cost of
funds and the share of its own funds to be blended with on-lent IBRD funds.
The overall average spread would be about 5.51. This range of spreads is
considered adequate to cover overheads and risks, both of which should be
lower than usual due to the large size of each sub-ioan (and the fact that the
borrowers are Government corporations) and still give the SCBs an acceptable
profit margin.
4.11      Summary Lending Terms.  IBRD money on-lent through DOF to the SCBs
under Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) for 12 years, with a grace period of 5
years, at an interest rate of 101 per annum which provides a margin above the
interest rate on che IBRD loan, to compensate for the foreign exchange risk
which Government would bear. The SCBs would pay a 0.751 commitment fee on the
undisbursed balances. Loans from SCBs to the PTPs under Credit Agreements



- 25 -
(CAs) would be for 10 years, including 3 years grace. The SCB would bear 1001
of the d4Eault risk. Interest would be charged during the grace period and
added to principal each month for both SLAs and CAs.
4,12      Fund flows for the prdcessing facilities (credit) component.  Fund
flows are shown in Annex 2, Chart 3 and summarised below:
(a)  Factories and Housing.  IBRD would disburse 701 for factory and
housing contracts, and the PTPs 301 (using 8CB funds and/or its own
funds). As contractual payments come due a PTP would first pay its
301. The PTP would submit evidence of this payment as part of its
withdrawal application (W/A). The Bank would then disburse its 701
share directly to the supplier, to keep IBRD and PTP payments on a
pari passu basis.
(b)  PTP training under contract and PTP technical assistance (consult-
ants). The Bank would disburse 100X directly to the supplier upon
submission of W/A from the PTP (sent through Bank Indonesia and
copied to Tim Khusus).
(c) PTP non-contract training. In-house PTP training not covered by
contract would be prelinanced by the PTP and disbursed directly to
the PTP by the Bank upon submission of a W/A as described above.
(d)  Vehicles.  Disbursement procedures for vehicles would be similar to
those in para (a) above.
(e)  Working Capital.  The PTP would finance its working capital require-
ments using its own funds or commercial working capital lines of
credit.
4.13      Fund flows for the project support (non-credit) component.  The Bank
would disburse 100X of the project support component, less identifiable taxes
(estimated at US$100,000) as follows:
(a)  Consultants.  The Bank would disburse directly to consultants upon
receipt of a W/A prepared by the executing agency submitted through
Tim Khusus and BI.
(b)  Other non-credit items.  DGE training, and supplies and equipment
for technical studies, the environmental component and Tim Khusus
would be prefinanced by Government under authorization in the Tim
Khusus budget. These costs total about US$2.4 million. The Bank
would reimburse 1002 (less identifiable taxes) upon receipt of a W/A
submitted by BI based on Government payment documentation initiated
by the executing agency through Tim Khusus. Incremental staff costs
for the Tim Khusus Monitoring and Analysis Division (US$600,000)
would be financed by Government.
4.14      To insure smooth implementation, each year DGE should submit the
draft budget for the project support component to Bappenas and the Department
of Finance by December. Bappenas and Department of Finance approval of the



- 26 -
final budget should then be received before the start of the fiscal year on
April 1. All project expenditures for the project's support component,
including environmental protection, would be included in Tim Khusus budget.
Financing Documents
4.15      Loan Agreement.  IBRD would have a Loan Agreement with Government.
4.16      Financing Agreement for Equity.  For each factory, if a portion of
the IBRD loan would be provided through DOF to a PTP as new DOF equity, DOF
would sign a Financing Agreement (FA) with the PTP which provides for the
"IBRD equity" disbursements to be considered, for administrative reasons, tem-
porarily on-lent to the PTP as an interest-free loan. The interest-free loan
would be accounted for as equity on the PTP balance sheet and converted to
equity within 6 months of the last IBRD disbursement.
4.17      Subsidiary Loan Asreement and Credit Agreement for Debt.  For the
portion of the IBRD loan going to a PTP as debt, there would be a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement (SLA) between DOW and each SCB in the project. In other words,
RBD and BEII would each have only one SLA covering all the IBRD funds to be
on-lent to them by DOF under the project. In addition, the SCBs would sign
Credit Agreements (CA) with the PTPs covering all the debt financing, whether
the money originates with the SCB or IBRD.
4.18      Debiting the Accounts.  For the IBRD money, as of the day IBRD makes
a disbursement:
(a) The portion of the IBRD payment which is equity will be debited
under the FA between DOF and PTP.
(b) The portion of the IBRD payment which is debt will be debited under
the SLA between DOF and the SCB.
(c) The same amount as in (b) will be debited under the CA between the
SCB and the PTP.
4.19      Timing of Financing Documents.  Draft Financing Agreements, SLAs and
CAs for the project have been agreed between GOI and the Bank. A condition of
disbursement for each project factory would be submission of signed versions
of the above documents relevant to that factory (para. 7.3b).
4.20      Bridging Finance for the PTPs.  Although it is expected that most
IBRD disbursements would be by direct payment to the suppliers, some prefin-
ancing of the IBRD loan would required, such as for PTP in-house training
expenses. The SCBs would provide the prefinancing as bridging finance under
the PTP's normal line of credit (working capital) at the SCB's normal working
capital interest rate (now about 18-19%). An alternative would be for the
PTPs to prefinance these amounts themselves.



- 27 -
4.21      Retroactive Financing.  Provisions would be made for retroactive
financing of expenses incurred in 1987/88 between November 1, 1987 and Bank
loan signing. These expenses would consist primarily of consultant services
and site prepara..ion and are estimated at about US$3.0 million. Anv items
financed retroactively would be procured in accordance with IBRD guidelines.
Procurement
4.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4 and described
below:
(a) All civil works and equipment for the factories (US$97.0 million)
and vehicles (US$20.9 million) would be procured by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). according to IBRD procedures, except as.
noted below in (b). The factory contracts would be let on a single
responsibility basis with the main contractor responsible for supply
and erection of equipment, associated works and services, and com-
missioning based on standardized designs (prestandardized designs
for the first six palm oil factories). The main contractor would be
free to import goods for the factory without hindrance (See Annex 2,
Appendix B).
(b) Equipment and works for the rubber coagulation centers, at Sintang
(US$700,000), rubber dryers for existing facilities at Air Molek and
Bajubang (US$200,000), the training facilities at PTP V Riau
(US$200,000), and all housing for factory staff (US$19.4 million)
would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) due to the
small size of each contract, the scattered nature of the contracts
and the consequent lack of interest which could be expected from
international firms. None of the contracts would exceed US$2.5
million.
(c) Consultants for technical assistance services (US$15.9 million)
would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines based on an
evaluation of proposals from agreed short lists of consultant firms
with international experience. Based on past experience it is
anticipated that approximately half the man-months financed by the
project would be provided by local consultants.
(d) Training (US$10.9 million) would consist of:
(i) Overseas fellowships at selected institutions and agencies.
(ii) Contracts between PTP. and Indonesian training institutes
(LPP).
(iii) Construction of training facilities for palm oil processing, on
site training in existing PTP factories and precommissioning
training in the new factories.



- 28 -
(e) Equipment and other supplies required for the Tim Khusus Monitoring
and Analysis Division, project technical studies and the strengthen-
ing of provincial pollution monitoring units are available locally
at reasonable prices and would be procured through prudent shopping
with at least 3 price quotes, subject to a limit of US$50,000 for
each purchase and an overall limit of US$3.0 million for the
project.
(f)  Due to the possible proprietary nature of sne advanced technology
that may be adopted under the start-up funds component, special
procurement arrangements may be necessary and would be discussed
prior to implementation.
Table 4.4s PROCUREMENT /a
(iUS$ million)
Project Element               ICB        LCB       Other /b   N.A. /c   Total
Factories                     97.0        0.9                             97.9
(67.9)     (0.6)                            (68.5)
Housing                                  19.4                              19.4
(13.4)                           (13.4)
Vehicles                      20.9                                        20.9
(6.2)                                       (6.2)
Working capital                                                 9.6         9.6
(0.0)      (0.0)
Environmental protection                             2.2                   2.2
(2.2)                 (2.2)
Training                                  0.2                  1u.7       10.9
(0.2)               (10.7)      (10.9)
Technical assistance                                15.9        0.6       16.5
(13.5)     (0.5)      (14.0)
Start-up funds                                       1.0        2.0        3.0
(1.0)     (2.0)       (3.0)
Total                   117.9      20.5        19.1      22.9       180.4
T-(74)    (14.2)      (16.7)    (13.2)    (118.2)
la   Including physical and price contingencies.  Figures in parentheses are
the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
/b   Other means of procurement include prudent shopping and recruitment of
consultants.
/c   Not applicable.  Includes administration, overheads, training, working
capital and preparation funds for future projects.



- 29 -
4.23      Review of Procurement.  The Bank would review, prior to tendering
and award, all factory and consultant contracts, and housing contracts with an
estimated value of over US$1.0 million. These contracts would account fcr
over 80X of Bank financing. Other housing contracts and training contracts
would be reviewed by the G0I Procurement Control Units, and, subsequent to
their award, by the Bank on a sample basis.
Disbursement
4.24      The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is shown in Annex 1,
Table 3 and summarized as follows. The Bank would disburse:
(a) 1001 of PTP training and technical assistance, and the project
support component (except incremental Tim Khusus staff costs), less
any identifiable taxes (for technical assistance to the Tim Khusus
Monitoring and Analysis, the first US$1.8 million would be funded by
the Government of Japan and administered by the Bank).
(b) 701 of factory and housing contracts.
(c) 1001 of foreign expenditures, 951 of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 651 of local expenditures for other items procured
locally, of equipment and vehicle costs.
4.25      For most other components, disbursements would be made on the basis
of standard documentation. Disbursements would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (WOEs) for PTP in-house training and fot the pro-
ject support component for expenditures of less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Detailed documentation for the SOEs would be retained in Indonesia and made
available to the Bank for inspection (Annex 1, Appendix A). The estimated
schedule of 0RD disbursements is shown in Annex 1, Table 7. Disbursements
would run six years from FY89 to FY94. The project Closing Date is
September 30, 1993.
Special Account
4.26      In order to avoid the necessity of prefinancing expenditures which
are reimbursable by the Bank and to simplify and expedite disbursement
administration, the Government would establish a Special Account in Bank
Indonesia to be maintained by the Directorate General of Budget, DOF. The-
Special Account would be used for local currency payments made for the non-
credit component. The Bank would make an initial deposit (US$0.2 million)
equivalent to an estimated four-months' disbursements for local expenditures
to the Special Account upon loan effectiveness and upon confirmation of the
establishment of the Special Account. The Account would be replenished every
month or when payments reach one-half of the initial deposit. A monthly
statement on the Special Account would submitted to the Bank by the
Directorate General of Budget, DOF.



- 30 -
V. PROJECt IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Preparation
5.1       All sites proposed for the project have beed visited during project
preparation to confirm the size and timing of project factories. The esti-
mates of raw material availability are considered sound as project factories
would process the output of trees already in the ground and the quality of
maintenance and the likely impact on yields can be estimated with a high
degree of confidence. Preliminary design specifications have been prepared
for all project factories. Financing arrangements and terms for the factories
have been agreed and draft-financing documents have been submitted. Tim
Khusus has prepared a draft budget for the project support (non-credit) compo-
nent. The role of Tim Khusus as project coordinator for the factory
component, and budget controller for the project support component, has been
confirmed.
5.2       Tender documents foz the first group of six palm oil factories to be
commissioned in 1990/91 have been prepared by Tim Khusus and the relevant five
PTPs, reviewed by the Bank taking into account pre-standardized specifications
(see para. 3.5 on standardization of processing facilities) and issued to the
list of prequalified suppliers. Prior to the award of the contracts, each of
the five PTPs would prepare and commence implementation of a preliminary
action plan satisfactory to the Bank to improve financial, managerial and
technical aspects of such PTP (para. 4.7). Submission and commencement of
implementation of these action plans would be conditions of disbursement for
these six palm oil factories (para. 7.3c).
Implementation Schedule
5.3       The project would be implemented during 1988-1993 (see Project
Implementation Charts in Annex 2). The standardization of factory designs
would be a priority task beginning earLy in the implementation schedule. The
strengthening of the Tim Khusus Monitoring and Analysis Division to monitor
project implementation would begin immediately. Factory staff recruitment and
training would be timed to the commissioning of the processing facilities. In
addition, the effluent treatment plants at each of the PTP project sites would
be constructed and commissioned at the same time as the processing facilities.
The upgrading of the pollution monitoring capabilities and discharge permit
procedures in North Sumatra and West Kalimantan would be brought into effect
over the first three years of project implementation. Sector studies would be
carried out in the first two years of project implementation.
Project Management
5.4       Tim Khusus would have the central role in managing the
implementation of the project, acting on behalf of DGE as the executing
agency. The Chairman of Tim Khusus, supported by che Tim Khusus Monitoring
and Analysis Division, would be the Project Manager.  Under the project, the
Monitoring and Analysis Division would be significantly strengthened with
additional staff and technical assistance (see Annex 2, Appendix E). The key
point is that overall responsibility for the project would be centralized to



- 31 -
ensure coordination and successful procurement and implementation. During
implementation, the Project Manager would meet regularly with key Government
agencies, including Bappenas, the Department of Finance, the SC8s, the
Department of Agriculture, the Department of the Environment, and the
Marketing Associations and the Joint Marketing Offices.  The functional
relations for this project closely follow established Government procedures.
5.5       Tim Khusus Monitorina and Analysis Division.  Factory construction
and operation are the direct responsibility of concerned PTPs, but, for the
project as a whole, the day-to-day implementation supervision would be
exercised by the Chairman of Tim Khusus in his capacity as Project Manager.
He would also be directly responsible for the project support component. The
Monitoring and Analysis Division would col?ect, aggregate and analyze all data
on project progress and inform the Chairman, on a regular and timely basis, of
implementation problems and delays. The functions and staffing of the Tim
Khusus M6E team have already been defined (para. 3.28) and are similar to
those for other Bank assisted projects in the tree crop sector. The Chairman
would regularly hold meetings with senior staff of Tim Khusus, procurement and
budgeting officials from the DGE Directorate of Programming, the Project
1dentification and Formulation Divisions of the DOA Secretariat General, and
tree crop processing experts from the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development. The Chairman would request attendance of representatives of
Covernzbent agencies concerned with particular aspects of the project to help
resolve implementation problems when deemed necessary.
5.6       PTP Project Implementation Unit.  During the construction period, at
the PTP level there would be a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) on site
consisting of a leader and three sub-units, viz: Engineering, Finance/
Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation. This PIU would report directly to
the PTP First Director and closely liaise with the Site Manager concerned.
The functional responsibilities of the PIU would include (a) representing the
iaterests of the PTP; (b) facilitating smooth contract execution by coordinat-
ing local logistics and other procedural matters; and (c) serving as the
progress reporting channel through Tim Khusus. Terms of Reference for all
posts in this PIU are being prepared by Tim Khusus.
541       While the overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation would rest with Tim Khusus, the M&E subunit of each PTP
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), with three to six staff, would be respon-
sible for the monitoring of factory construction as well as the financial and
operational efficiency of the project factories. Such a PTP-level M&E system,
targeted to improving management effectiveness in the tree crop processing
subsector, should be maintained beyond the initial investment period and, when
proven effective, would be adopted as standard procedure for factory manage-
ment as an integral part of the management information system.
5.8       The Monitoring and Analysis Division in Tim Khusus, together with
the PTP headquarters processing consultants, would assist the project PTPs to
institute their M&E system by (a) adopting factory operations efficiency
indicators, (b) establishing the reporting format, (c) training PTP MUE staff
and (d) revising the system as necessary. The detailed design of such a
monitoring system would be submitted to the Bank for review. The monitoring



- 32 -
results from the PTPs would be aggregated, analyzed and interpreted by Tim
Rhusus which would provide DGE and the Bank with an annual report on the main
findings.
5.9       Pollution Monitoring.  The monitoring of factory effluents would be
the responsibility of the provincial offices of the Public Works Department
(Kanwil). During the life of the project, two such units in North Sumatra and
West Kalimantan would be strengthened. Responsible managers within these
units would be identified to supervise the initial studies and strengthen the.
pollution monitoring capabilities of the department. Newly constructed or
expanded factories would be fully equipped with effluent control structures,
and factory managers would be responsible for maintaining records of effluent
discharge. Such records would be submitted to Tim Khusus which would report
the integrated results to DGE. Tim Khusus would appoint a qualified pollution
control specialist to its Monitoring and Analysis Division to coordinate
budgeting and reporting for the component, and to supervise the PTP effluent
treatment study in consultation with the Department of Public Works and the
Department of the Environment.
5.10      Project Completion Report.  DGE (Tim Khusus) would be responsible
for preparing a Project Completion Report and submit it to the Bank no later
than six months after loan closing.
Accounts and Audits
5.11      PTP Accounts.  Under Indonesian law, PTPs are required to maintain
proper accounts and records and to have these accounts audited by an indepen-
dent auditor. In preparing its detailed annual corporate accounts, each PTP
would include a separate schedule detailing the expenditures under the
project, and the funds received for project purposes. This separate project
schedule would also be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that audited PTP corporate
accounts, including the separate schedule of project expenditures and funding,
would be submitted to the Bank no later than nine months after the close of
the PTP fiscal year.
5.12      Government Agency Accounts.  Accounting control of individual
government agencies is exercised by the Department of Finance (DOF) and the
State Auditor. Detailed annual applications for budget allocations are
prepared by agencies and submitted to DOF by end-February. These applications
are reviewed and approved by DOF and form the basis for the quarterly distri-
bution of funds. Following automatic fund distribution for the first quarter
of each fiscal year, DOF requires submission and approval of expenditure docu-
mentation before releasing funds for subsequent quarters. In addition,
agencies are not permitted to exceed unit costs used in the approved budget
applications. Consequently, there is a great deal of ongoing control exer-
cised over agencies' financial affairs. In this project, estimated project
support (non-PTP) expenditures are US$11.7 million. The Government agencies
responsible would be required to maintain accounts and records in sufficient
detail to support expenditures and have them audited annually.



- 33 -
5.13      Separate audit reports would also be required for expenditures
involving reimbursements on the basis of SOEs or through the project's Special
Account. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government (DWE)
would obtain and submit copies of each year's audited accounts, including
audits of SOEs and Special Account, no later than nine months after the close
of the Government fiscal year (see Annex 1, Appendix A).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.1       Production.  By 1992/1993, the incremental production from project
factories would be about 70,000 tons rubber annually. Incremental processing
of FFB would be about 1.6 million tons with an expected output of 340,000 tons
of crude palm oil and 70,000 tons of palm kernel. Improvement of processing
efficiency obtained through standardization of factory design, training of
factory staff, technical assistance and technical studies would result in the
production of higher quality rubber and higher CPO extraction rates, and in
the associated reduction of processing costs.
6.2       Marketing.  Due to a deficit of vegetable oil production in
Indonesia, the Department of Trade reserves the right to restrict exports of
CPO through a domestic quota system. CPO producers are each assigned a
tonnage which must be sold locally at a controlled price and on occasion up to
7OX of CPO production has been reserved for the domestic market. Production
above the quota may be exported. Because the domestic price of CPO is con-
trolled to protect consumers, from time to time the Department of Trade also
imposes export taxes on CPO to keep the FOB price relatively close to the
controlled domestic price. While the export tax on CPO is currently 0U, it
reached 421 in 1984. The combined effect of domestic quotas at controlled
prices and export taxes has averaged about 20X of FOB since they were intro-
duced in 1978.
6.3       Based on recent years and expected trends about 901 of the rubber
and about half of the CPO produced as a result of the project would be
exported. Palm kernels would be sold to existing factories for processing
into palm kernel oil (PKO).  Nearly all PKO would be sold domestically due to
a chronic deficit in lauric oils for cooking. Paras. 1.8-1.10 describe the
long term price and market outlook for Indonesian rubber and CP0, which appear
favorable.
6.4       Pricing of Smallholder Produce.  The project factories would buy FFB
and rubber from smallholders for processing. The price to be paid to the
smallholders for FFB cannot be determined by market forces, because the
technical need for immediate processing usually leads to a monopsony situation
for the nearest palm oil factory. Therefore, Government considers oversight
of the prices paid to smallholders desirable to ensure a fair return to the
smallholders (which among other things is needed to enhance the prospects for
a high level of credit repayment), and provide a sufficient return to the
factory, whether public or private, to attract the required investment. In
addition, pricing arrangements are also needed for rubber in accordance with
the original plan for smallholders in NES/PIR projects to sell a portion of
their raw rubber to the nucleus estate for reasons of both technical effi-



- 34 -
ciency and cost recovery. The Minister of Agriculture has issued a decree on
the general principles to be followed by DOE to regulate smallholder FFB
prices, and a follow-up decree waS issued by DCG in June 1987. In late 1987,
the Minister issued a similar decree for rubber, and the DCG issued circulars
detailing the procedures for pricing smallholder rubber and FFB in early
1988. These procedures are being reviewed by Bank staff.
6.5       During discussions with Government, the Bank's key recommendation
has been that any detailed DCE decrees on smallholder pricing should refer to
the precise formulas to be used to calculate the payment to the smallholder
and the formulas' explanation. This need for clarity is especially important
because of the desire for increased investment by the private sector in tree
crops. The recent issuance of the decrees on FFB and rubber are major steps
forward in creating a legal framework for further progress on this matter. In
particular, for the first time DCE has the authority to set smallholder prices
in NES/PIR projects. At negotiations, GOI submitted the detailed formulas to
be used by the PTPs for determining the price paid for smallholder rubber and
oil palm products
6.6       PTP Financial Returns.  The financial rates of return were cal-
culated on the assumption that smallholders would be paid 80Z of FOB for
rubber and 601 of FOB for FFB. The percentage is lower in the case of FFB
because export tanes and domestic price controls on CFO are estimated to
reduce the PTP's gross revenue to approximately 801 of FOB. Using these
assumptions, the financial rates of return (FRRs) for rubber factories range
from 201 to over 100l in real terms. For palm oil factories the estimated
FRRs range from 17Z to 37X. The large variation in rubber factory FRRs is due
to two factors. First, some sites will require only relatively minor
additions (such as dryers) to increase capacity, while at other sites entire
factories must be built. Second, at some sites, the PTPs will derive their
raw material primarily from their own estates, which is substantially cheaper
than having to buy it from smallholders, on whom other PTPs must heavily
rely. The variation in palm oil factory FIRs is due primarily to this second
factor, as new construction is required at all palm oil sites. Returns from
both rubber and palm oil exceed the cost of debt to the PTPs under this
project (161 in nominal terms). (For a list of FRRs by site, see Annex 4,
Table 1.)
6.7       Economic Analysis.  Each proposed factory has been analyzed using
site-specific data on costs and production levels. In computing the economic
rate of return, the following assumptions were made:
(a) 'onversion Factors. Industrial plant and machinery 0.85; transport
1.0; construction 0.8; non-traded services 0.75; other traded manu-
facturers 0.8; general project costs 0.8. On an average weighted
basis, these factors are equivalent to a conversion factor for all
costs of 0.85.
(b) Sunk Costs. Since the factories financed by the project would
process only the output of existing planted tree crop hectarage, the
costs of land clearing and crop establishment are treated as sunk.
On-farm cost is therefore the variable cost of maintaining and har-
vesting the existing hectarage.



- 35 -                       t
(c)  Sector Support Costs.  The costs of general sector support, which
cannot be attributed to specific sites and whose (non-quantifiable)
benefits are not limited to participating estates, have been exclu-
ded. Similarly, the costs of the environmental component not asso-
ciated with specific project factories and start-up funds have also
been excluded. These non-credit costs amount to 6% of total project
costs.
(d) Benefits. The incremental net benefit was calculated for each site
based on with and without project scenarios. For palm oil sites,
there are no alternative processing facilities available, and thus
all net benefits are incremental. For rubber sites, however, alter-
native private processing facilities do exist., Incremental benefits
from the project-financed PTP factories derive from: (i) lower
field-factory transport costs; (ii) lower processing costs; and
(iii) a higher quality final product, which will command a price
premium. Benefits for both palm oil and rubber outputs were cal-
culated on an export parity basis.
6.8       Based on the above assumptions, which exclude non-quantifiable
social and economic benefits (see paras. 6-17 to 6.19), the economic rates of
return for the rubber sites range from 18% to 1301. ERRs for palm oil sites
range from 501 to 97% (see Annex 4, Table 1). The overall project ERR is
61%. If general sector support costs are included, the project ERR is 57%.
These returns all exceed the estimated economic opportunity cost of capital of
102 for Indonesia (see Annex 4, Tables 2 to 5 for the calculation of ERRs for
representative rubber and palm oil factories). Analysis of all sites are in
the Working Papers. For palm oil factories, financial returns are lower than
economic returns due to two factors. First, the estimated taxation on CPO
output reduces the PTP profit margin, which in turn reduces the FRR without
affecting the ERR. Second, the lack of alternative processing facilities
means that all net benefits from the palm oil factories are incremental to the
economy, resulting in a relatively high ERR. For rubber factories, the
opposite situation holds. There are no output taxes on rubber which would
reduce the FRRs vis-a-vis the ERRs, and the availability of alternative
processing facilities means that not all net benefits from the factory are
incremental to the economy, tending to depress ERRs relative to FURs.
6.9       Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analyses were carried out for
both rubber and palm oii factories, testing for the effects of various adverse
assumptions both on "average" sites and on those sites with the lowest ERRs
(see Tables 6.1 and 6.2). For both rubber and palm oil factories, even the
lowest case sites can sustain a 252 increase in investment or factory operat-
ing costs without the EnR falling below the 101 opportunity cost of capital in
Indonesia. They can also easily sustain a 25Z drop in price or yield4 or a
one-year increase in construction time.



- 36 -
Table 6.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS - RUBBER SITES
Assumptions                  Low Case ERR (X)       Average case ERR (X)
Labuhan Batu               Ketahun
Base case                                       18                     28
25% increase in investment costs                13                     22
25% increase in factory operating costs         15                     25
25% decrease in price                           15                     25
25t decrease in yields                          12                     21
1 year increase in construction time            17                     26
Switchins values at 101 OCC              Low Case                     Average Case
(Rp Bn Constant 1987)          SAR   Switching   Percent-    SAR   Switching   Percent-
value    value    age Change  value    value    age Change
---- Rp Bn -----               ---- Rp Bn ---
Investment costs               3.2       4.7         48X       2.6      5.6          1172
Operating costs                2.3       3.8         67X       1.7      4.7          1731
Table 6.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS - OIL PALM SITES
Assumptions                   Low case ERR (Z)       Average case ERR (Z)
Kalianta                Sei Bahar
Base case                                    50                       69
25X increase in investment costs             43                       59
25% increase in factory operating costs    49                         68
25% decrease in price or yields              39                       50
1 year increase in construction time         46                       60
Switching values at 101 OCC              Low Case                     Average Case
(Tp Bn Constant 1987)          SAR   Switching   Percent-    SAR   Switching   Percent-
value    value    age Change  value    value    age Change
--- Rp Bn -----                ---- Rp Bn -
Investment  costs             15.9      91.8         477      38.7    254.2          /a
Operating costs                1.9      77.8           /a      5.8    221.9          7a
Total costs                   31.7    107.6          240      88.5    304.0         24
Prices or yields/benefits   100.7       31.7         -69    304.0      88.5         -71
/a   Over 500Z.



- 37 -
Social and Environmental Impact
6.10      Poverty Orientation of the Project.  The direct beneficiaries of the
project are 12 Government-owned estate companies (PTPs) and about 60,000
smallholder families participating in nucleus estate and smallholder
projects. These smallholders are in the target poverty group and were
promised processing facilities at the time the trees were planted. Failure to
provide them now would result in personal hardship as well as wasting the
resources already spent bringing the trees to maturity.
6.11      The Role of Women.  This project has no component directed specifi-
cally at women. However, the project provides factories for NES/PIR pro3ects,
where the family is the primary economic unit in smallholder areas, and all
family members are expected to benefit from the higher incomes attributable to
the factories provided by the project. As in existing rubber and CPO facto-
ries a substantial percentage of project factory employees would be women.
6*12      Environmental Impact.  Processing of oil palm can have a substantial
adverse impact if untreated liquid effluents are discharged into the environ-
ment. Through this project, GOI seeks to demonstrate that effective effluent
treatment technologies can be designed, operated, and maintained in the tree
crop processing subsector. A fully integrated program of development has been
initiated which will ensure the design and construction of effective pollution
control facilities, the training of operators to monitor, maintain and control
these facilities, and the strengthening of the pollution monitoring capabi-
lities of provincial units in North Sumatra and West Kalimantan provinces.
With these provisions and with an effective follow-up to the survey of pollu-
tion control facilities in existing PTP factories, water quality in the tree
crop processing areas of Indonesia can be significantly improved.
Project Risks
6.13      Technical.  Project factories would use well established technology
and no design problems are expected. The primary technical risk is possible
inefficiencies due to insufficiently trained management and staff, parti-
cularly given the shortage of skilled management and staff in existing PTP
factories. This has been taken into account in designing the project's
training and technical assistance components.
6.14      Financial.  Many Bank-financed tree crop projects have experienced
implementation delays due to problems in releasing funds from Government
and/or participating state commercial banks. Particular attention has been
paid to minimizing this risk in this project by keeping fund flows as simple
as possible and Government financing at a minimum. Financing documents have
been agreed between OI and the Bank. Submission of the relevant final signed
financing documents would be a condition of loan disbursement for each project
factory.
6.15      Environmental.  Given the poor record of effluent control in exist-
ing PTP factories, there is a risk that the effluent control systems of
project factories, however well designed, would be poorly maintained and
operated. The project would seek to lower this risk by the provision of tech-



- 38 -
nical assistance and training at the PTP level, and the strengthening of the
pollution monitoring capabilities in two provinces, Worth Sumatra and West
Kalimantan, as the first phase of a longer term overall Bank strategy of
assisting GOI to establish effective pollution monitoring and control institu-
tions at the provincial level.
Summary of Project Benefits
6.16      Quantified.  At full production incremental production from project
factories would be about 70,000 tons of rubber, 340,000 tons of crude palm oil
and 70,000 tons of palm kernel per year with an FOB value of US$175 million.
Improvements in factory operating efficiency built into the design of these
factories and the project's technical assistance and training components are
estimated to increase PTP and smallholder incomes up to 15X-25X over the
average in existing factories. The FRRs for project factories range from 17%
to over 100% and the project ERR is 61%.
6.17      Non-Quantified.  All project factories would process the raw
material of trees already in the ground, including, in all cases, smallholder
areas. As such; the project would fulfill a commitment made to the small-
holders at the start of the NES/PIR projects that the PTPs would construct
adequate processing facilities. Failure to provide these factories on time
could result in human and social problems as well as wasts the large invest-
ments in planting already made.
6.18      Direct non-quantified benefits would accrue in the short term from
effective pollution control in factories included in the project; and in the
long term from the subsequent pollution control investments generated by the
study of existing non-project PTP factories, and from the strengthening of
institutional capacity for monitoring effluent discharge in the tree crop and
other industrial sectors. Users of water resources in the provinces would
benefit from the reduced pollution loads which would result from the project.
6.19      Through the project's technical assistance component, improvements
would also be made in the monitoring and evaluation capability of Tim Khusus,
and tree crop processing technology.
6.20      Cost Recovery.  Ninety-three percent of the total project costs will
be subject to cost recovery through the project credit mechanisms. The
remaining costs are for Government's institutional strengthening and are not
appropriate for cost recovery.
VIIl AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       At negotiations, the following items were reviewed and agreed:
(a) draft financing documents, including Financing Agreements,
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and Credit Agreements (para. 4.19).
(b) detailed formulas to be used by the PTPs for determining the price
paid for smallholder rubber and oil palm products (para. 6.5).



- 39 -
Assurances
7.2       At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) Government would prepare by June 30, 1989 for each project PTP an
action plan satisfactory to the Bank to improve financial and other
aspects of such PTP (para. 4.7).
(b) Government would submit by December 31, 1990 an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank to bring all existing PTP factories into
compliance with GOI effluent control regulations (para. 3.22).
(c)  Audited PTP corporate accounts, including a separate project
expenditure schedule, and audited accounts for tie project support
component, including SOE audits, would be submitted to the Bank no
later than nine months after the close of the relevant fiscal year
(paras. 5.11 and 5.13).
(d) Government would select and train, for each project PTP, the
relevant factory senior staff and would appoint such persons at
least six months prior to the estimated commissioning date of the
relevant factory (para. 3.14).
Conditions of Loan Disbursement
7.3       The following are conditions of loan disbursement:
(a) For each PTP: Consultant(s) for PTP headquarters technical assis-
tance and supervision of factory construction in post (paras 3.7 and
3.18).
(b) For each site: Submission of the following signed financing
documents: the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between DOF and the
relevant SCB; the Credit Agreement between the SCB and the relevant
PTP; and the Financing Agreement for equity (if applicable) between
DOF and the PTP (para. 4.19).
(c) For each of the five PTPs constructing the six palm oil factories:
Submission and commencement of implementation of a preliminary
action plan satisfactory to the Bwak to improve financial,
managerial and technical aspects of such PTP (para. 5.2).
Recommendation
7.4       With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$118.2 million for a term of 20 years, including
a 5 year grace period, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



10-Oct-s8
'suwostji                                             IIDGISIA
10-Oct-88
16:49                           TREE CROP PROCRSSIIG PROJECT
SUIKARY COST AID FIWAICING TAILK
IBED                PiP                  SCB                 GOI           GOVOF JAPM
Factory Component                            $USS                                 I Rp B          t I ap                                              - Ip-  IRpE B  USS-H I--p-B
Factories/Equipment/Civil Works   15.5            25.8      70    10.9       18.1      10       2.5        20      5.2
Housing                              3.2           5.2      70     2.2        3.6      10       0.5        21     1.1
Vehicles                             0.7           1.1      30     0.2        0.3      23       0.3        47      0.5
Design Consultancy                   0.5           0 8    10       0          2     8   0       00                0.0
Training                             1.4           2.3    100    01.4         2.83    00       00.0         0     0.0
Initial Working Capital              3.6           6.0       0     0.0        0.0     33        2.0        67     4.0
Technlical Assistance                3.2           5.3    100      3.2        5.3       0       0.0         0      0.0
.4
SUBTOTAL       28.0          46.6     65    18.3       30.4      11        5.3        23    10.5
Palm Oil
Factories/Equipment/Civil Works   82.3           136 7      70    57.6       95.7      10      13.4        20    27.6
Rousing                             16.2          26.9      70    11.3       18.8      10       2.7        21      5.5
Vehicles                            20.3          33.6      30     6.0        9.9      23       7.8        47    15.9
Design Consultancy                   2.8           4.7    100      2.8        4.7       0       0.0         0      0.0
Training                             8.3          13.9    100      8.3       13.8       0       0.0         0      0.0
Initial Working Capital              6.0           9.9       0     0.0        0.0      33       3.2        67      6.7
Technical Assistance                 4.7           7.8    100      4.7        7.1       0       0.0         0      0.0
SUBTOTAL      140.6         233.4     65    90.7      150.6      12       27.1        24    55.8
Subtotal Factory Component            168.7         280.0      65   109.0      181.0      12      32.4        24    66.7
Support Component
Technical Studies                       1.8           3.0      93      1.7       2.8                                         6.7      0.2                   0.0
Policy Studies                          0.9           1.5    100      0.9        1.5
Environmental Protection                2.2           3.6    100       2.2       3.6
DGE and Related Training                1.2           2.0    100      1.2        2.0
Monitoring & Evaluation                 2.7           4.4      10      0.3       0.5                                        21.9      1.0        67.7       1.8    3.0
Start-up Funds                          3.0           5.0    100       3.0       5.0
Subtotal Support Component             11.7          19.4      79      9.2      15.3       0        0.0      0.0      0.0    6.0      1.2        15.4       1.8    3.0
Total Ptoject Costs                        180.4         299.4     66   118.2       196.3     11       32.4        22    66.7    0.4      1.2         1.0       1.8    3.0
=3:=  =3===3              ==2:= 3=                              ==3=               3                   =3=    333
VAT                                    13.9          23.1       0      0.0       0.0      32        7.5       67    15.4        1     0.2           0         0      0
Total Project Costs Less
Taxes and Reserved Procurement          166.5         276.3      71   118.2      196.3       9       24.9       19    51.3        0     1.0           1       1.8    3.0
33333         33              33=3=     U333=              3=:==             3=333           33333
Interest During Construction                58.6         97.3       0      0.0       0.0       0        0.0      100    97.3        0     0.0           0       0.0    0.0
Total Financing Required                   239.0         396.7     49   118.2       196.3      8       32.4        41   163.9    0.3      1.2           1       1.8    3.0
Total Financing Required Less
Taxes and Reserved Procurement           225.1        373.6      53   118.2      196.3       7       24.9        40   148.5       0     1.0           1       1.8    3.0
3==c33        3333                      3= =::=:                             33333 :::5:                             333     33a



tatE CM P IouSStaG 9104152
Swomm.y A..0mosts by Tone
totals Iftcloodig CoIngo 011 00s                          total$ I ciudiee  csnliugoo los
INPAIMltotal                                           loss I000m
88/89    89/90    90/91    91/9~~2 912/93    Total  "tag0   89/90    90/91    93/9      92/93    totl*
.............SSSS   S...   n..  SSSI**St=S1353S    SSft   nSSSt...  .t.s  .ls.   aaa
A CALDif CQIONMENt
I. RUBBER FACTORIES
$AC2O9Y (Q'IIPILRI AND CIVIL SIORKS          1. SO.8  4.641.0  4.942.1 14,5689.1            26.a03.0      934.2  2.195.8  2.977.2  &.836.0          -  15,544.0
IiIIUSIIO                                      313.9   9"S.0    997. 1  2.916.0          -   6.2*8.0      IS9.$   572.9   600.7  1.792.?            -  . 3. I55. 4
VEC11CU,S                                      222.2    226.3    164.9    63.4           -   I 318.8       1:5.8    135.7     99.3    323.?                674. 6
OE51GM CONSU IAIICT                             19.4    172.9    352. 1   286.8       69. 5     760,7      53.9    M0. I      St.    1t2.8a    36.8        468.2
T RAIN IN M                                               06.2    322. 1  t1,102. 1      -   2.330.4                1 84.S    :94.0  1. 025.4       -   1,403.9
IIORIING CAPEIAL                                         466.8    982.0  1,6S56.8  2,976.2   S. 981. 8              281.2    59 1.8    937.a  t. 792. 9   3.603. 5
IECIIEICAL ASSIS1AHCE                          263.:1   673.6    837.4  2,033.8  1.14.0   S.319.8         157. 3    405.8    504.4  1.225.2    912.0   3.204.?
Sub-tolal RUGSSA $ACIORI[S                       0240.4  7. 436.8  8.397.8 23.762.@0  4,549.8  4.5653. 6   1.450. 2  4,480.0  5.068.9 14. 314. 4  2.740.?  28.044,23
2. paLM OIL MItLLs
I ACtOR? LOUIPILENI  AND CIVIL NORMS        42. 753.0 43. 123.5 22,222.1 21.606. Il      -36.614. I 25.75,4.8 26. 020.2 13,387.3 17.112. 8           -  82. 335.0
hiOUSING                                     9,543.3  5,236.8  1.433.4  9,671,6          -  216. 64, *   5.749,0  3,1M4.1  2, 068.3  S. IS3.8 IS         I. I5. 2
VEHICLES                                     2.925.4  4,016.0  8.S27, 9 12.814, 1  S.33& 8  33.622. I   l. 162.32  2.4SS. 3  S. 137.3  7,7I19. 3  3,216.1  20,2S4.3
OLSIGN CONSULtAMCY                           2.244.?    437.4    705.8    663.9    241.8   4,5923. 6   1.352.2    504.       425.2    400.0    146.1   2,827.5
TRAINING                                     7. t14.9 23.M$181.  1,US..4  t. 772. I  13.8. JIS   4.A34L,3               .1.916. ?  1.012.9  ..071,8   A. 347. ?
kGRAIXG CAPItAL                                     -        *4. 46. I1. ,868.2  3,569.3   2.905. 6                     - 2.691. 6  1. 125. 4  2. ISO. 2   S.97. 2
TECRNICAt ASSISIANGE                         1.5$68, S ,81.   2  1,953.9  1,452.7    908.4   7,767.86    943.7  1,3386.2  1, 171.0    875.1    547.2   4,579.3
Sub-total SPAIN OIL HILLS                      66,247.8S 55. 1681.9 44,493.5 SS.658, 5 11.837, 4 233. 4041.I 39,908.3 33,224.3 26,803.3 33,529.2  7. 131, 0 140.8061.
S#*-Total CREDIT CONPOIENT                         S865,   260.   2,8991.'3 7'9'.4'20,6 :1.6387.0' 279,99.741,356.  3?."714,3' 3"1,8652.2 47,8'943.7   9.81.?   8865 0.S
8  SUPOPORt COIMPONENT1                                                                                                                                                                                       4-
I. IECGNICA1. S UDIES
toulpRtNl                                     I, 624,8                .                       1, 624. 6   978.86-                                          978. 6
STUDIES                                -        89.0    395.2    370.2       10.0      10,5S  1,374,92    354.8    238.1    223.0        6.0       6.4     628.32
S.b-lolal ILcIIN1CAL SIUCIES                    2.213, 6    39. 2    370. 2     10, 0     10.5   2,999.5   1,333. 5    2381.1    223.0      6,0       6.4   1,0.9IO 
7  PO0iIC? SIUOILS                               1 .462. 1                                       3, 462. 1   880.8 a                          -               88.8I
3. rNviROKMENIAt PROTECTION                      1,686,6  1, 14S,5    794.7                      3625.8   1.016,0    520. 1    478.7                    - 2, .34.8
4. DGI AND REtAItO IIIAINIIIG                       St.3I   453.6    63.7    645,1    271.5   3, 967.1         34. 9    273.2    383.0    328.4    163.6   1, 179,0
S. MONtIIIAING AND EVAI,UAIIOK                     724,2    229.0  1. 31L,8    793.0    430. 1   4,393. 1     436.2    439.2    793.2    4717.    600.1   2.646. 4
6. SIARI-UP FUNDS
Pi1OJELCt PREPARAT ION FUNDSS                  664. 0    884. 0    684.0    564.0    664.0   3, 320.0     400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0   2,000.0
UMRCOODGIIO  Of AOVANIGED IEICIIOOGF                                      830.0    830.0   160. GV.0                                  SO50.0    500.0   l; 00.00
Sub-loWa  START-UP FUNDS                           864,      64,0    664.0  1, 4114,0  1, 494. 0   4,988. 0   400.0    400.0    400. 0    900.0   900,.0   3,000. 0
Sub-lotal SZJPPORt COMPOEll'                        6.80:,?7  3.387, 2  3,781.4  2,8$42. 1  2, 606. 2  19. 4;8,5   4.097,4  2,049.5  2,278. 0  1. 712. 3  1,0.ST.0  1 1,697.92
totail INVESFMREN  COSIS                              754696,9.  6  7.   2221 18,932   937.   4'5,4'5'5.99, 5.   4  4.  4955.  1144.7? 180,3'"48.
Total PHojICI COSTS                                    75,451.9 65,992.9 66.672, 7 62,262. 6 18,993.2 299,378.3  45,465,9 39.754,8 34.1:40.2 49,555.8 11,441. 7 t0. 348, 4
August S. I9S8 16:29



AM
- 42-                                   T2.
26Ai-88
*        CE QP flESIG FRT
PIP E= pMm u= a
PIP % Eqit-y fra PIP
I         0.0
m        17.5
IV        0.0
V        17.5
VI       17.5
*viI     35.0
1X        0.0
A         0Ar
xIII    35.0-
XVI    17.5
IOCIf    35.0
xXV      17.5



31-hu,-88
tll0WBIA
ug CoP Pmowsz P105
(I 8p billion)                              _U ooum S8M
PtL  OIL SIT3                                                             MrI_s                                         _      18D
ISOl Llneaclog    65               *                        . .-. .  .
FTP  ut.                             iCi~~~~~~~g    cost/a  %   I BPi           I  litps              R i          I      L
tII  Labu t an tu, 1. S :tta                     Bo        19.1   17.S         3.3      1. 5         .3  11.8         3.4      47.2   9.0
IV 8.t Bakur, Jambi                             g31I      45.2    0.0        0.0         35.      15.3  35.4       16.0       29.7  13.4
IV  aps  u        , Rau 8R11                               4 .0    0.0       0.0       34.         4 .   35.4       4.9       29 7   4.2
V Set Intan, aul                              88l1       29.2    7.         5.        17.5        5.2  17.6        5.3       47.2  14.9
VI Kallanta, Riau                              8RI1       18.0   17.5         3.2      17.5        3.2  17.8         3.2      47.2   8.5
VIt  Paxhii, Y. saiuta                          n1t        27.5   35.0         9.6        0.0       0.0   0.3         0.1       64.7  11.8
Vil Igang,  W. Kallutn                          sell       10.1   3s.0         3.S       0.0        0.0   0.3         0.0      64.7   6.5
It Cot Gitek, hceh                              8D        20.1    0.0        0.0       35.0        7.0  35.4        7.1       29.7   6.0
X Nuar.q ga.l, S. Sumtra.                                30.s    0.0        0.0       35.0       10.7  35.4       10.8       29.7   9.0
X Prabi_mith, 8. Sumatra                       B33       19.4    0.0         0.0      35.0        6.8  35.4         6.9      29.7   5.0
Subtotal-Palo       233.6   10.6        24.9       24.4      56.9  24.7        51.7       40.3  94.1
WUilt                                   DEBT
S3 81i38                                                                           ... ...... _. _._.... ..___ ---- -- - -  ------ -------
PI               MBD                   SC               13
PI       site                                    oft       cost         I lipS                      ?.3   5 I      AiS IIPi%   I  7     i.pSa
IAl7 e le  ran, AceS                            Fe0       6.5    0.0        0.0       5s          2.3  35.4        2.3       29.7   1.9
III Labohan latO, I. SUmtta                      noD        S.S   17.5         1.0      17.5        1.0  17.8         1.0      47.2   2.6
IV kit Nolek, Rlau                              8BD        2.9    0.0        0.0       35.0        1.0  3S.4        1.0       2.7   0.9
IV Da.obsag, Jaubel                             B8D        0.7    0.0        0.0       35.0        0.2  35.4         0.2      29.7   0.2
VI huab bonang  .Jamkl                         BStI        6.4   17.5         1.1      17.5        1.1  17.8         1.1      417.2   3.0
v  Duram  Lunoue, Juzrhl                       nI1         5.1   17.5         0.9      17.5        0.9  17.8         0.9      47.2   2.4
111 Sinbang, V. Kalimatam                       BEII        1.2   35.0         0.4       0.0        0.0   0.3         0.0      64.7   0.6
MIl Dean  Salak, S. Kallmantan                      EED       8.1   17.5         1.4       17.5        l.f  17.8        1.4       47.2   3.8
XXIII letahun, SenqknlO                           all         5.5   35.0         1.9        0.0       0,0   Q.J         0.0       64.?   3.6
XVI TanJunnsantart, S. Kal.mntan                 B811        4.5   17.5         0.8      17.5        0.8  17.8         0.8       47.2   2.1
Subtotal-Eubber             46.4   16.2        ?,5       18.8        8.7  19.1        8.9       45.9  21.3
TOTAL OIL PALM AND RUMDDI                                   280.0   11.6        32.4       23.4      65.6  23.:        66.6       41.2 115.4
Total 8quityu  Ap. 98.0 billion or US8  59.0 eillion)
Iotal Oebte    Rp.182.0 billion or US0 109.6 million)
/a Excludinq interest durinq construction; exebnqae tate used: Rp 1660/US$



AM 1
-44-                                Table 
= CROP ;        -
*  OARY*    FDG PLNM RR aErr c Sta   /a
(I Rp billion)
pip            oil palm   rubber   total
I                           0.0      0.0      0.0
III                3.3      1.0      4.3      1.5
IV                 0.0               0.0      0.0
V                  5.2               5.2
VI                 3.2      2.0      5.2    .1.8.
*VII                13 2      2.13.2           4.7
IX                 0.0             '0.0       0.0
X                  0.0               0.0     '0.0
XiII     .                  0.4      0.4      0.2
IIn                         1.4      1.4      0.5
mOCi                       1.9      1.9.     0.7
XKYII            .          0.8      0.8      0.3
&ibtotal          24.9      7,5    32.4        12
.ELI              29.6      2.9    32.5        12
BUD             28.2      6.0    34.2        12
Subtotal          573       8.9    66.6       '24
IBEM             151.0     30.0   181.0        65
Ibtal Credit
CO9cnet         233.6     46.4   280.0      100
/a Ewluding interest during construction.



10-Oct-0J
W  CWOP PBOCCEE     PRJCS
PROOSMED AJXLCAYION OF LOAN PROCEK DS
Costs (     W8 $hllion)
Tta bl Foreign          1EBD    PSP      SCt    G0I    GOV OF  P0831   I8aD1 *       IP m  scD    GOI *  JAPAN t
Credit Component                                                                                    JAPAm
Rubber
Factories/qulpment/Civil Yorks   14.4    9.3                10.0    1.4      2.9                        65        70      10      20
Housing                              2.9    0.7              2.0    0.3      0.6                        25        70      10      21
Vehicles                             0.7    0.5              0.2    0.2      4.3                        80         30     23      47
Design Coasultancy                   0.4    0.0              0.4    0.0      0.0                         0        100      0       0
Training                  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* 1.3    0.1  1.3    0.0  0.0  10      100              a
Triniilng   ki    CaItal             3.3    0.3              0.0    1.1      2.2                        10          0     33      61
Technical Assistance                 2.9    2.6              2.9    0.0      0.0                        90       100       0       0
Subtotal                            25.8   13.7             16.8    2.9      6.0                        53         65     11      23
Palm Oil
FactoxieskEquipment/Civil Works   76.1   49.5               52.9    7.5    35.4                         65         70     10      20
Housing                             15.0    3.7             10.4    1.5      3.1                        25         70     10      21
Vehicle's                           1s.0   12.8              6.0    3.7      7.6                        60         30     23      47
Design Consultancy                   2.6    0.0              2.5    0.0      0.0 0a                               Lo       0       0
training                             7.6    0.8              7.5    0.0      0.0                        10        100      0       0
Inltial Working Capital              5.4    0.5              0.0    1.8      3.6                        10          0     33      67
Technical Assistance                 4.2    3.8              4.2    0.0      0.0                        90        100      0       0
Subtotal                           126.8   71.1             83.6   14.4    29.7                         56         65     12      24                                    U'
Subtotal Credit Component             152.6   84.8            100.4   17.4    35.7                         56         65     12      24
Non-Credit Component
Technical Studies                       1.7    0.9              1.5                        0.1             53         93                       7
Policy Studies                          0.8    0.7              0.8                        0.0             90        100                       0
Environwental Protection                 2.1    1.3             1.8                        0.0             62        100                       0
DGE and Related Training                1.1    0.9              1.0                        0.0             80        100
Monitorinq & Evaluation                 2.4    1.7              0.2                        0.5       1.6   71         10                      22   68
Start-up Funds                          2.8    2.3              2.7                        0.0             80        100                       0
Subtotal Non-Credit Component          10.9    t.8              8.0    0.0      0.0        0.6       1.6   71         73       0      0        6   1S
Unallocated                                 16.8    9.0             9.8    2.2       4.4       0.1       0.2   53         66      11     22        0    1
Total Psoject Costs                        180.4  101.5           118.2   19.5    40.2         0.7       1.8   56         66      11     22      0.4    1
laterest Duri*q Construction                58.6   18.6                            58.6
Total Finahcing Required                   239.0  120.1           118.2   19.5    98.8         0.7       1.8   50         49       8     41      0.3    1
I!!E



-46                                   ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursements /a
Cumulative              Disbursement profile (X)
IBRD fiscal           disbursements             Indonesia industrial and
year and semester     US  million                   development finance /b
FY89
First                1.0           I
Second              12.0          10                          1
FY90
First               26.0          22
Second              42.0          35                         24
FY91
First               54.0          46
Second              66.0          56                         56
FY92
First               78.0          66
Second              93.0          79                        83
FY93
First              103.0          87
Second             113.0          96                        96
FY94
First              117.0          99
Second             118.2         100                        100
/a Closing date is September 30, 1993.
/b Whilst disbursements as a whole are expected to cover the six year norm
for industrial and development finance projects in Indonesia, the advanced
state of procurement of the first group of six palm oil factories
(ref. para. 5.2) means that disbursements in the first two years will be
higher than indicated by the standard profile.



ANW 1
- 47-                                    Table 8
26-Aug-88
ln,caSIA
¶IBE CROP P1R0CSSIIm  PIR]Er
CALCEATIa OF SCB SPREADS
% of cap       X of
liicase /a                rate %      talizatn       debt         %
S( cost of funds            10.0           0.0       0.0        0.0
MOD fuMs                    10.0          65.0      100.0      10.0
CODst of blended finds                                         10.0
Subtract fran PIP interest rate                                16.0
Equals S(Z spread                                               6.0
Less overhead                                                   1.0
Less risk                                                       0.5
Eqals profit murgin                                             4.5
g of cap-             Of
Average case /b           rate % talizatn            debt         %
SCB cost of funs            12.0          17.5      26.9        3.2
3B  funds                   10.0          47.5      73.1        7.3
ODst of blended funds                                          10.5
Stbtract from PIP interest rate                                16.0
Equals SCB spread                                               5.5
Less oerhead                                                    1.0
Less risk                                                       0.5
Equals profit nargin                                            4.0
% of cep-          Z of
L   case /c               rate % talize..            debt         2
SCB cost of funds           14.0          35.0      53.8        7.5
IBD funds                   10.0          30.0      46.2        4.6
ost of blended fmds                                            12.2
Subtract fram PIP interest rate                                16.0
Equls SC spread                                                 3.8
Less werbead                                                    1.0
Less risk                                                       0.5
Equals profit mrgizn                                            2.3
13bte: Total capitalian is 652 debt snd 35% eqty. Thus a "1652 share"
of total capializatin is equivalent to lOlU of the debt capital.
ffle E ar BRD shares for each factory site are shown in nnex 1, Table 4.
/a High case:    Assun  IBRD provides al debt financing at 10l and/or
SCB cost of fiuds is 1U%.
lb Average Case: Assras S}:fBlRD ratio for debt financing is 17.5,47.5 and
SCB cost of funds is 122.
/c L1  Case:     Assues SC.:IBRD ratio for debt finaning is 17.5:47.5 and
SCB cost of funds is 142.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO PTPs
(Commissioning Is Assumed to be on Januiy 1 st)
PIP .         LOCATION       ~         oE O                     DA-  OFCOMMI)NNG (y)                  MAN4 c., 
PTP  LOCATION            FACTORY  CO--                                                         (COST)
_ _ 66:69  8699          9wo,et    91 92    9293   RP MIUONS
I  Alue le MaJh/Aceh                                                                                      35 R  3 1
NC     R                                          -                   55)
NC     R                                                               5 0
_ LOW= sawk Unatra         NC      CPO                                                        (12150)
Sinah S/JoMb                   NC      CPO
Sob"/Jmbi                      NC      CPO                                                           05
SagaBoo  Swrmvpoh                EXP    CFO
Air MoWI/R I                   EXP    R
|   seiV ntomRaNC                                                                                          45
_ § _ DtP~~~~~~~~E                 CPO                                                         0    (093,5
N o Jo  } E  R                      I
Rimbo8sjarIW   i          J    NC   R                                                                  70
Durion lunc*/Jarni             NC      R
Katiarta410ot Kult /Rku        NC      CPO
NgabanW. KoafflM               EP    CPO
P     . Kmantan                        CPO
IX  Cat Gtekl$ceIc~EX             CF
umuCotG     umatrk              NC     CPO                                                        3  . _290.
9 XtflA1S.S#ct             }     NC      CPO           I       ...              -_                   (250)
NC     R
XXIt  KeOunlsgcl                    NC      R                                                          20  (4I?0)
XMM  Tdu  SantE Kalmarn             NC      R                          |                               20   (480)
No. d CaitarfforRueRb1                                     1     4   1_3   1                  S   8 (A9)
NaotCoajaru"stfw IIl                   CO           |6    | 7                     5        3    20  WM)
NoC d Corntaft                        Tot@|  7                   11      10       11       8    4a 5(1129)
CPO = CnldPmOn                        co *amn* 
R = Rui2w
I Man Year - 243 Rphl
NC = towC4nction
NaftOr4oneekQ  upwaWnpalmOrweu nePPIP  aen  , regXdIJtdSutdOw
eoddfti - 40349



11Rtti-tROP PtSOttSSt#C PRtlJtCl
SUPPQRt CONPON31 *OtNtiR
Mlailod C#It Ia Tbo
Breakdown of totals $#W. I
*                                   6336W I000
8S  . Costs                                totals Incltuding Contingecios                            Iocal
S/;an   aS9o   gon0I  9           91/92   92,9    Total  88/89   3un90,093   91/2   922/93   bol            for. Each. tape$)   lsos.
1. INVEiSTENI cOSts
4. tINVIRONIIAlX tCONPONINT
.......................
S. SIRENCGtIi8N3C Of POttUtlION 8I03t1OR13C IN 11(O PROVINCES
....................................................... 
OVERSEAS CONSiUIIANTS                                                       498.0   498.0   498.0          -           1.494;0    522.2   53S.9  S58.3           *-        -  1.bt9.3        873.6   0tO  9
IOCt COXSULtAtXS                                                            99.6    99.6       9.6                      298A.    107.2   112.    118.S6              -         33.4              -   203.
tStORAIOi  COSTS                                                            298.6    99. 6    99 6                       493.0    320.?   112.0   117.            -             50.5         32.0   299 7
Sub-total SIRENCtI3ZN1NG Of POttUtION #DNltORIlG l# 1110   PROVINCES           898.4   697.2   CS7.2                      2.290.8    950.0   763.5   794.2           -           2.SO&.2         900.5   605.4
2. RfVIEY Of tXISIING FACILITIES
..............................
OVERSEAS CONSWlIAKiS                                                        498.0   249.0         - -                 7-47.0    02.2   269.0             -        -        -     1. 6        427.6    49 2
tt.li  CONSULtANIS                                                          19S.2    99.6         *                      298.8    214.4   112.6                   -             3269 S                197.0
Sub-total RNEVII  Of 0 .AIStNlC FACILITIES                                     697.2   348. 6                             1.045.     736.5     382. 0                            t-. 118.6       427.j   246.2
!ub total INY3ROrIENTAI COlIPONENT                                               3,I93.8 1.04.'S   697.2                  *  3.336.6  I.S86.6 1. 145.5   794.7                      3.626 8       1.333.2   8S0.6
B. 0Out AND KCLLALD lRAttl#C
IIASItRS DECPEC TItNIlNG                                                                224.1   373.0   29S.8   149.4  1.045.S            -   242.5   438.7   348.6   18t. 7  1.,191.0            41.0    765 s
UVRESLAS StttN1-tERN IRAI4tl#CG                                                         14S.3   145. 3   127. 8    34. 9    4S3.2              t57.2   16t.8   149.1    42.4 5* I1.              27S. 3    32.8
lOCAL SHORT-ti)fl lRAlttl#C                                                     39.8    39.8    37.6    37.8    35.9    191.2          42.8    44.8    44.8    41.3    47.4    227.1              12.9   14. 0
IUCAL tNCGLIS  COURSES lO0  OVERSEAS 3RAIXllC                                     8.0     a 0      8.0        -        -     23.9      L86       9.0      9.4        -        -     26. 9          1. 6    14. 7
Sub Total DCO AXD REtAltD TRAtNIXG                                                  47.8   417.2   564.6   464.5   210.I  1.714. t        St.3   453.S   635.?   54S:1   271.5  1. 9S.1             930.8   24'8.2
C.  IONItIORINC AND EVAtUATION
..........................
CODtPUltRS                                                                       '9.9                         -        *      3.9      20.8                                   .      2.8          Is. 3               S
RIAIERIAt.S                                                                       8. 3    8.3      8.2      8.3      8.3     41.i0 S    90.7S    10.0    10.0S    II.0     I1.0     0 2. 7        I0.4    13.? 
LOCAt  StAll                                                                    159.4   159.3 4   15.4   309.4   15.4    795.8        11. 15 80I °   189.8   200.9   213.0    905.3                    0575.0
tt S C CONSUtIANI                                                              249.0   24S.0   249.0                   -    747.0    261. t   269.S   279. I         -             809.7         436. 8    51. 0
IRA1ttItG ADVISOR                                                              249.0   249.0   249.0           -            747.0    263. 1   2G9.5   279. 1         *               09.7        436.8     t. 0
RUB88R PROCESSING AoVtSOR*                                                                   -   249.0   249.0   249.0    747.0                    -   279.    290.5   302.8    872.5            46*.8 8   S.8
Oft PALK PROCESSINC ADVISOR                                                                      249.0   249.0   249.0    747.0                     -   279.1   290.0   302.8    872.5           4G6.8    56.8
Sub-total  ONIIORING AND tvAtUAtION                                                85.S   660.17 1. 63.;   660.?   660.7  3,846.2    724.2   729.0 i. 336.8   793.0   830.3  4.393. ;             1;8;.;8   804.2        4
0. SAR11-UP fUNDS
9330,ICT PtEtPRAR10t                                     *                     664.0   664.0   664.0   664.0   664.0  3,320.0    664.0   684.0 . S64.0   664.0   664.0  3. 320.0               1.500.0   400.0
PILOT INtRODUClION Of NEWX tELINOLO                                                                       StO 820.0   830. 0  t. 660S  0                        830.0   830. 0  t .60. 6        900.0   300.0
Sub-tota I START-UP FUNDS                                                          664.0   864.0   664.0 1.494.0 1.494.0  4.980. 0    664.0   664.0   684.0. 1,494.0 1. 494. 0  4.980. 0         2. 000. 0   W00.0
totl INVStIlIENt  COSIS                                                         .  2.993.90 2.t92.6 3.089.4 2. 624.   2,379.8 13,9876.9  3.28. t 2.992.0 3.411.2.2 .32.t 2.595.6 14.9- 7.0           6.SO. --.- I4. t       4
SaSSaSS|t Saisats  8,85S   *458355 tZSS$sa  **S**aSS   ******* StatiSi **5**55s' s5*s.  aaa.ss sa. M..0  sssss.s s. .s...4.    s...4
Tota: 2l991.0 29 92.8 3.089.4 2,624.1 2.3n98 12.876.9  3. 32.t 2.992.0 3.411.2 2.832.1 2.595.8 14.957.0                                                                                               6.601.7 2,404.1        4
as*sast# a.... *5.Ssa   ass 6...* v s....         G *t5 san   Xa.."s    s$4a..  .. ..                9   a *68.24 ... .... IS. a,.4-
........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Lug"l  S. IS88  16: 28
Ico



IIOM(USIA
taEt CioP ftOCESSING PRoaCi
SUPPORT COUPOUTU-StUOICS
Ootait.d Cost tsble
(RUPIAH MihItOin)
9...adawo of1 letts Meli. Caist            EsP.WSdU:.O, by I,n..aeor,
cuss 100)                                WUS$  0001
Base Costs                       Totsls IncludItV Coot angoocilsoestoIa                                                            OTIIER
88/89  89/30 30/31 31/92 92/93 total        $11/8   89/30 90/St 31/32 32/93 Totat    for. Each. lease?t axes   T.:.t             W8 w g  3/3  90/31 21/392 92/33 to
t. tMVtSIRETM costs
£IECIUIC.At STUOtEs
IUSE of EMPTY 8u:icitts * coo
EQUIPIStSi                                      so.1il.                                        ' - 581 668616.8                              36.2              4.0    40.2       40.2            -
sluC:                                            8.0   8.0;  8.0   A.0;  8.0    32. 8         8.6   9. 0   3.4;  10.0  to. S    47.4          2. 7   2S.9        -    28. 6       8.2   5.4   S. 7   6. 0   6 4
Sab-loWa  USE 0f EXPIT BIJMCU(S - CPO               66.I   8. 0   8. 0   8. 0   8.0    7.32    is. 4   3. 0   3.4  tO. 0  to.5   11 4.2         38.39  215.3      4.0    SS.8a      45.4   S. 4.  S. 7   6.0   6. 4
2. tittUtNt MOItIORtING - CPO
STItOT                                          is.39  IS.3 9             -        33.8      21.4  22.4                        43.8           2. S    3.8              26.4      12.3  13.5 
Sublgolat EPTItMIu MOMITORIMO  CPO                  t. 19.3         *            *    33.8      21.4  22.4      -                  43.8          2. 5   23.8         -    26.4      12.9  22.5
3. CtHN*ACIENtSItis 0f CPO
StUD?                                            13.9I  19. 9    -                 39.8      21. 4  22.4     *-                43.8a         2.5S  23.8                26.4      12.3  2.5 S
Sub-total CTIARIC11RS1ICS Of CPO                    13.9  12.3                .       33.8      2,.4  22.4                         43.8          2.5   23.8,              25.4      I?.9  13.5 
4. RtAM MALRuzAt STUDIES -  UBSat
SluT                                           to.  10.1  -                      O10. I       6.      -     -             .   116. 0         6.8a  63. 1         -    69.9       89.3                         .U
Su.b-total Rlam MAERIAL StUDIES - MSeta            :08.; I                           :08. 1    116. 0     .                       116.0          6.B   83.                63.9      63.9 
S. 0RC DZ1tgIAIIttAtOJ - RUBBER
E*UIPMLNT                                       26.8                               26. 6     30. 5                              AS  3.       16. 6      -      1.8 a   184       18.4 
STUDY                                           66.7      -      -66.7                       I1. 6           -71. 6                           4.2   38.9 S             43.1      43.1 
Su*-totaI CRC OETFRNTMATlO'I - RTISER               93. 3     -                       93.3    :02.2                 .             t    02.2     20.8a    8.39     l. a    61.5      61.5 S
6. PROCESSING KLMLO110 - 4118568
EOUIPMET                                     :. 32a. 0    -                   - I328. 0  1. 527.? 2          .               .527. 2       828.0        -      2.0   320.0    920.0
STUD?                                          236.0 298.0 304. 9      -          38.9    317. 6 332. 2760.8                 1.OtI. 3        58.3  550.9          .   609.2    131. 3 200.5 2317.3
Sub,-tota  PROCcSlltc MEIOIDS   RUBBER           1. 624. 0 238.0 304.9           -2. 224.3  1.8944. 8 332.9 360. 8           . 2. 538. 5       886.3  550.3      92.0 D  .523. 2  1. 111. 3 200.5 2:7.3
7. EIILUfiM KCIIOITRIMC  RIIUtA
STUDYT                                          30.3   7. 6                   .    37.8      32.5   8. 5                        41.0          2.4   22.3               24.?7     19. 6   S.1I
Sujb-total EftutLUMI NONUO*G - RUBBEsR             30. 3   7. 6    .37.8                       32. 5   8.5     -                  41.0          2. 4   22.3         -    24. 1     :o.6   S. I
'SbTotat TiCIINICAL STUDIES                         1. 96t.S 351. 4 3:2.9   8. 0   8.0 2. 641. ?  2.213.6 395.2 370.2  10. 0  10.5S 2. 999. S     960.3  748.8      37. 9 1.806.3  I.313.5  M3.: 223.0   6. 0   6~.4 1.
B.1O1ic? SIUIltS
RUBMR MAIIRtlUIC ShUBY                            697.2             .                697.2    731. 0            .      -          731.0       335.2   45.2               440.4    440.4             .      .     -
tIMeC  IlanRis  Rtiss1NC REteS STUDY              697.2             .- 637.2    731. 0                    .                        1. 't0     395.2   45.2               440.4    440.4
'l.A-totat POLICY StUOICS                           I.3.                               . 394.4  1.462.:      .                     1.4621. 1      790.4   30. 4             880.8a   B80.8
1014? tkWf.MtMTu  costs                                3. 3S5.9 3S1.4 312.3   8. 0   8.0 4.036. I 3. 6?5. 6 395.2 370. 2  10.0  10.5S 4.461.B6     t. 7S0.6  833.2      97.92 2. 687.?7  2. 214.?2 238.: 7 23.0   6. 0   6.4 ?
;Sfti   55*  Slut; 52 .. tiu      ittSI   Lia:   .5   u  .2  14  isis: S  46.S"S""4   853,;;;4;ISe   ..Oeaise  Sang..,.. 11 3584*SsSsass snags.,  sns., Isass.  I'll,a  a.11
Tej41,0                                                 ;';SS3 31.4  12.9   8.         .040.I   .5635237210                       1.5.61.6          170.IS.6  832.2      37.32 2.681.?  2.2:4.2 238.1 22J.0   6. 0   6.4 2
*u..LS, sass. sass. svats g.s.a0 sass...  nat:X.4  ian   sas   3 a       sS;: aim,... axsmnista $$a.*s n.s.a.2 S.9..It... is s   at. $%. s ...  .8: S...
A...vsl 5. 1318lb. 35"'~.



- 51 -
INDONESIA                                                    1
Table 12
TREE CROP PROCESSiNG PROJECT
Sumary of Technical Studies
Cost (Us$)
Crop/Objectives           Proposals                         Duration  Proposed location  Equipment   Study        Tota;l
Palm Oil
Use of empty bunches   Use bunches as fertilizer           5 years   BPP Medan             40,200    28,600      68,800
Effluent monltoring    Checks  V.A, alkalinity, pH         I year,   BPP Medan                  -    26,400      26,400
3 months
Characteristics of      Checks  osidation, I.V, slip      2 years   BPP Medan                   -    26,400      26,400
palm and kernel oil  point
Subtotal Palm Oil Processing   40,2G0    81,400    121.600
Rubber
Raw material study      Survey on collecting practices   3 months  BPP Sungel Put1h
BPP Bogor
BPP Sembawa
Batch processing of individual   1 year    BPP 8embawa
raw materials and mixed raw
materials
Subtotal Raw Material Study          _    69.900      69.900
DRC determination /a   Statistical survey on various    3 months  BPP Sungi Putih
raw materials DRC                            BPP Bogor
Comparison of various DBC         6 months  BPP Bogor
determination methods and
statistical sampling method
Subtotal DRC determination      18,400    43.100      61,500
Processing metbods      Semi-industrial trials on all    3 years   BP? Sembawa
stages of processing, on a
small-sLAe processing center
Investigation of present indus-  3 months  BPP Sungel Putih
trial results                                aP" Medan
BPP Sembawa
Subtotal Processing Methods   920,000   609.200  1.S 00
Effluent monitoring    Check:  V.A, alkalinity, pH         I year,   BPP 4W                     -    24,700      24,700
3 months
Subtotal Rubber Processing    938.400   746,900  1,685.300
Total Cost     978,600   828.300  1.806&900
la  ')RC - Dry Rubber Content



- 52 -
AlllEX I
Table 13
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJsCT
Proposed Studies
Costs
(US$ '000)
(Including
Name                                  Eecuting agency    Timing               contingencies)
Technical studies /a                  Tree Crop Research  1988/89 through       1,80t,000
Institutes          1992/93
Von-technical studies
Financial studies of PSP              DCG (Tim Ihusus)    1987/88 and            lb
1988689
factory design standard-
isation /c                          DCE (Tim Ihu su)    1988/89                /b
Rubber marketing                      DCO  (Tim Mhuus)    1988/89                 440,000
Review of Indonesia's future          DCU (Tim Kbusuw)    1989/90                 440,000
tree crop processing need.
/a   Detailed costs are presented in Anne 1, Table 11.
/b   Financed fro  MES VII loan.
/c   Iacluding standrdisation of tender docuents.



- 53 -
ANNEx I
Appendix 
Page I
INDONESIA
TREE cRoP PROCESStSG PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Statements of expenditures (SOS) would be used for Bank loan
disbursement against:
(a) Expenditures for in-house training incurred by a PTP.
(b) Expenditures for purchases less than US$50,000 equivalent related to
PTP training and technical assistance and the project support
component.
Loan Amount      IBRD disbursement
Item                               (W  million)          percentage  /a
In-house PTP training                       6.4                   1OOX
Miscellaneous expenditures from
other categories less than
US$30,000 eligible for Bank
disbursement                              3.0                   100l
/a   Disbursement percentage applied to total expenditures less identifiable
taxese.
2.        The SOEs submitted by the project for reimbursement from Bank loan
would contain the following informationt
(a) A description and location of the activity.
(b) Total cost of the contract, if applicable.
(c) Expenditure during the reporting period.
(d) Dates of expenditure.
(e) Certificate of performance by the Project Manager.
The S0le would also indicate that the detailed supporting records, such as job
cost records, labor, machinery and equipment time records, and the basis for
allocation of costs would be maintained in a readily available form and
cross-referenced to the application. These records would be audited by the



- 54 -
AN 1
Appendix A
Pale 2
auditors acceptable to the Bank during the normal course of the project's
annual audit and made available to Bank review missions when required.
3.        The PTPs are commercial organizations with proper accounting
systems. The PTPs are fully aware of the Bank auditing and bookkeeping
requirements and as such can be relied upon for adequate accounting required
for the,documentation of the SOEs. Similarly, DGE and other project agencies
would be required to maintain accounts and records in sufficient detail to
support expenditures. Both the PTPs and Coverment agencies would have their
project accounts audited annually, including a separate statement with respect
to SO8s, and have them submitted to the Bank within nine months after the
close of the Government fiscal year. Supporting records would be made
available to the World Sank on request.



INDONESIA
TEE CROP PROCESSNG PROECT
Pf  Im_kdkd Sche
196     Me         "s6o      1996       1991        1992       199
Ad   ion  AA             Jim  ~      ii         l Ad   icn A
-"   -      -- -                  -w   -      -    -     -    -    -
codCo  UV"~ Fod&"s-                 -              
Sd  Deion
s1udV PIP Rnances-       -     -
*uanU Pokdi Mm k-    -                                     - 
-hep M&E
Condn OIte CPO Factoes                    -s
Cons   RiTu bbar foctodes 
Wu LT ROOM Re%*Gnh
WMI f* - l49W3
MaE   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
Sh*AdMo     _*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-



HOWNESIA
TREE CROP PFCSSN  ROJECT
Rubber FCt
vew2                                  Yaw 3
IReCnit Enginssdn Ccvwsiatwt
PRep Site TendWt
Awxd Cor*ct
Contsoctos IvoazIaton
Setec PIP CorsiokwO
MoobOItr~ion PF Consaitnt
Cowa Woeas 2
klV'2 Ectumentm - m - -
R&-nsst Staff                                                                        -      
Ap;pobO Staff
Inn stctt- - m - -                                                                                              
On Sit                                                                                                                    m   m        -   -
*Old SW* -403494
I!



1REE CROP O S P
CPO Factoey
vem~~~~~    ~ ~ ~  s=2                    VO 3wb4
J FIMA U  J JAISJOID J1 FM#AMAIJ J A SONO D JFM#AMAOJ JIAISOIND JIF PMA MJ
Rdcai                        -  C*
Puep StO lendw
A*awdCo.Vw=
-ah3 PIP CanUitaot
Molz  PIP C*mWarI
Ced%%mft2                                                   .h h .h          .hE.
Tram~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1
C cx,nwion.hhhE.hEuEhu**F
Ascaul ~~                                              . .......*..*.*.*.*.e
*=     - 413495



- 58 -
AMt  2
Chart L.A
. 5        __      _-__'_-_                _  _
.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
S           _  _ _ _,___
}  t                                         I~~~-
l          _ _   _  _   _ _   _ _    _



IR  CROP umC   IROJC
,.n Vdg* lddPg    1 c on MabgC
_Scl lu,mikmShdLu
nuV                            _"   *                   m    FV                    FM4
J A SOI  4     AI    A S  A A NiJ    AMJA+    DAf   A        A ]      0 0 J f    A JJAS  0 D         f
Nvonsolecatit: ame rkl t 11                                       g        ][0                   0                  00
&**mwzondi Co&anbW
PAp*tFI,WwUs . 
I    I   I_j
"am sft,g~u*au*Icw Vkaby%kp                                                                                     11110MOOft 4010 I
GoICAAHscolYsmsAprill ki h 31



- 60 -
ANNE 2
i Cliart 2
r -Y----- --____a__- 
b}   i.  ,, i   aEI!
1XT----'~~~~0~~ M   2
I }______
_  , X~~~~~~~~~~
L   {. E3~~~~~~~~~



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Chart 3
'li'Si}    R    ttD~~~~~~~~~~II.0
ji«~~~ Il1-bmw*I
iii  ,Q,$ *  ii
0>§'                  3 
- -~~o}. - -      2



TREE CMW PIUESSII  PRMJET
Physica! Planing for the Constructiou/Expansim of Rubber Factwins
2      2            2                          2~~~~ Planted area (ha)  I   Production Estitate  (tons drc)       I Rubber Factwry rq4rmeets (capacity in turs dricday)          T OTAL
PTP      2 Project              Location                  I  actual   I                   Iqig                                   I   99" 1  IOIItI                       92
I           E III    Almle51YU.4                  4ruu *badoh1,8  173O UWIS I18U2O8 493 IV295  12TY157B £208#........TCa                                    20 .....4C        -   ..N  2 IM
I                                4                                                                   It
IV       B No         4    ia/dd                      ,3          ,4 B  B           1,6  I      9    3,    2,7  I.Cm/a    -                 h-      E2 -       2h2 2Erpd
IV              I?t 11 IArW Mu                       762        1,A2im9 ,26 742 92                             2,OU /                                                                    
V II       P1M Ita   2 Larihan Dw k/atoSu         I  9,316       9,316 2      112              0 1,9386266 4,0   36,13 2                        20.........           CoCo-2 1*0 2 
2                      1PSSI Imoa/b                    '         74D1         i       m 2  23                        2i ,3   i  m                                                       I
2    V      NES tU     I Djuan  /lak/hsl                                             6 3  ,4  1  ,2463    2,69103,79    42,715 t.Ce20-   ..... Cm       -    -   2D ..... to   20  I  -
2     l     PRA1 1Ktbokot                              ,00        54                    2        0     107 203- 201. .....Cm                                                      1    2       2
4            It?~~~~~ I~
SVI     P1115 I     hrTanjLunu/Katis          2104,041        4,0412        -      385      V      1,864    3,644 1-10......*..                                            - I*202 
2    19111  ES III    2T Oma  TSAlk s L2115,79              151,7205 214,431   26,32645   ,393   10,323   12,1695 1s        M         20 ..... 0         -.N US. U2 120k    : UN0 
4  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Id                                                2d  10ii 
CC a XIItI   Centers, NCuta kwaComstulu           E     ,000 5taso ,49Cm          -      235Co107                 ,0322..i...oi-1                                                       2     -
la   11W    P118di t   2n facjatan/aistieg of       1  idd t,0     4,00  2n  -*mt1 38            876er  1,519e   1,944 1 1E.....o                                              -I1*02l 
It dr a I additiod  10 t dryw ~ ~ ~      ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        21:r                           2r   *1                     21*0 
Notes Ttal mow of rabw fatries ad   the Tn Crop romsin Projec i  No  onstrariom  lxkm/d adU20tond                w13*  ons/da
Etvamdom    620tossi                                                           a     ats d4
______________________   _____________________________________________0__to " lday_  



PIhyuicaI Planioq for the CoustructiqofEfauis of Pas, Oil Factr'les
9                              r~~~~~~~~~,~~lae ar ea n (IIW                                              " I  Prodtiontl  EstiaWu fasw, ra.  Pals, Bit .ACtY roW,r  ILqecity in ton, FRIO~   I    Jj
I   PIP    I prejet    I       Locaties                        ktua    33  I                                             I9iSiSY        "t           ' :19999 199 91  n23 :1992m
*        3   ClitelfrHOPViCO1e    I 'roga, too to 86973 199S199  3199190 I t999/1I199192I19219             -     -NC'                                                          F
I    iti     PIt LOWa    I  abia Statmi/ht        I  14,971      14,271    156,326  193,997  241,642  VI7,?"   29,51so ............1.30.. c
I     TV    P093  11   I hai BANlJambi                15,530     14M530    37,319  91,1WO   162,7M    212,929   255,90 I 60........... Cm.                 3  160 1
3   3                                                3~~~                                ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 30........... Con    -31303 
3  IV    P1m190  II   3 Sga 9sehb, Rim.            7,979       7,979    23,515  57,317   92,72    £19,033   £39,20011301a.C.......... cm-   30 .......... cm                            1,3 W
3  v      PIt        1 hi MOM"l91              3    ,000       6,00031  29,400   0,300   92,60    120,40    141,1501 30..C.........                   -         3  ........ cm     WD;30   1:30:
I     VI    Pit          I Kallwant/ln            1 6,955         4,329          - 8,222   35,494   59,243   90,t97 I30 .............3-                                            -  :03      -
3 VII    P3113 I      3 Pariodn/Kabar          3 9,300         6,143 3   27,251  4529      71,514  101,6172   132,2U 3 30 ............ Co             -    -   30 ........Co I 1:310   110:
3    VII    EI 3pbiulK a1h                     14,500      7,34231  43,560  61,23      *8,106   134,77    195,9553.......Coo/b   -          - 30 ...... to-                       3   3303
I     11    PIR LaklI  Cat Sirnk, ki                  12,000      3,2003         -            3,535    57,015    99833 M               30.C........... cm                       -11301            I
"h    I      I     P1110  if    Praheeuls'Smel          3   6,05        4,137 I  39,815   53,406    73,79     94,24    105,401 130 ...........cmu7..                                  .   1:30:
I  PI.31 It      INaJaEnBfIU/soI        I   9,0         5,153 1  19,138  38,247   77,229   126,612   160,403 I 30...........CN                 .     . ......1:Cm              1 :303IL
TOT A L                                      104,471      73,094   375,324 6t4,114  957,734 1,304,274 1,600,794 3530    - 2130    - liSO130 1          -0 4230    -        353       510 
3                                                                                         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.,60                    I1:603          3
NC 'b. Cuastructiem. E:p a Expauimm, Coo   Cse.isuoeol
la Factwry finaned unde sepaate arraqemmt baets PI IV and SCU
/b Fastery fi awtwed de motor Lou
10ota  TOtal ncabor of pate oil factories nder the p"epoud Tree Crap Pro-uing Project *    Sog Constructions: 3:60 tons FF8/b and 530 ton, FF8  '300 tons FF8/ee
Exgansiunsz       5:30 tan  FF1                      '150 tons FF8/bee
40 tons FF3/bow



64 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix A
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Selection of Factories
1.        Selection criteria have been developed to ensure that the need and
timitng for the proposed new or expanded rubber and palm oil factories are
technically and economically fully justified. These criteria are related
to: (a) the amount of NES/PIR production to be processed, (b) the amount of
non-NES/PIR locaL production to be processed, (c) the availability of spare
local processing capacity, and (d) the minimum size of processing facilities
for efficient operation. The necessary data for the justification of all
proposed factories were collected by DGE/Tim Rhusus from the PTP. and reviewed
during field visits to all project sites.
2.        The estimated amount of MIS/PIR production to be processed is based
on the followings
(a) Area planted/replanted (ha).
(b) Year of plantinglreplanting.
(c) Estimated yield profile, taking into account:
5i)    TMe specific location characteristics (soils, rainfall
distribution).
(ii)    The type of planting material (clone, selected seeds).
(iii)    The harvesting/collection parameters, (tapping systems, type
and frequency of collection, field road conditions, etc.).
(iv)    The agricultural practices (clearing and planting methods,
fertilizers, maintenamce, etc.).
(v)    The ownership (nucleus estate or smallholders).
(vi)    The quality of the plantings, as expressed in grades according
to tree density, growth measurement, etc.
3.        The estimated amount of non NES/PIR production is based on the same
parameters as in para. 2 above, plus location, dista'e from the project site
and road conditions.
4.        The availability of spare local processins capaciti  is assessed
during visits of all existing factories (PTPs and private processors) in the
project area, for the review of:



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
koven4ix A
Page 2
(a) Location, distance from the project site (means of transport, river
and road conditions, transport costs, etc.).
(b) Ownership: implementing PTP, other PTP, Joint Venture Company,
private estate companies, private processors.
(c) Type of factory, lay-out, installed machinery, maximum capacity.
(d) Raw material supply: type and quality.
(e)  Standard of operation:  level of efficiency, maintenance, staffing,
operating costs.
(f) Type and grade of final product.
(g) Plans for future construction/expansion if any.
(h) villingness to process project crop.
5.        The minimum capacity of processing facilities for efficient and
cost-effective operation has been determined as follows:
(a) For a crumb rubber factoryt
About 10 tons dre/day corresponding to the operation during 20 hours
of a 500 kg drc/hour dryer which is the smallest industrially pro-
duced dryer. Given a monthly peak of 111 of the annual production
with 25 working days per month, the mini=u crop required to fully
justify a 10 tons drc/day factory is about 2,300 tons of dk
rubberlyear, corresponding to about 1,900 ha planted (basWe on an
average of 1,200 k4/ha).
(b) For a palm oil factory:
20 tons FF/hr, due to the availability of fuel/fiber and shells
from nuts) and power requirents. However, in this project 30 ton
MF/ha factories have been selected as the difference in cost be-
tween 20 tons ad 30 tons factories is neglible (only additional
screwpresses and clarification equipmt are required for a 30 ton
factory), and also because a 30 ton MF/day facto1y allow  for more
flexibility to process the annual peak productiou. Given a monthly
peak of 12.51 of the annual production and 450 hours/month of opera-
tion, the minimum FF1 production required to fully justify a 30
ton/day factory is about 108.000 tons MF/Year corresponding to
about 5,400 ha planted (based on an average of 20 tons MF/ha).
6.        Using the above mentioned criteria, a number of rubber factories
originally proposed under this project were found as not fully justified and
therefore were not included (see Attachmet 1).



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix A
Attachment 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Rubber Factories Originally Proposed But Not Inciuded IA This Project
Estimated
production of
Type of                             rubber in
PTP      project     Location               1992/93 (tons) Reasons for exclusion from this project
III   PIRSUS It    50 Koto/Sunbar              1,679       Not enou8h crop + avaLlable processing
facilitles.
IV  NIS tI        Bajubang/Jambi              4,715       Factory financed under NIS VII loan.
IV   NS itI       Alr Wolek/Riau             12,400                          n
V   PIRSUS 1     Rokan IV Koto/Rl&u          1.424       Not enough crop + available ptocessing
faci4itiea.
V   PIRUS I     Cot Citek/Aceh                197
V   11SUS II   Noulaboh/Aceh                  98"
VI   m3u VIt    - P4idr/RaltIM                  w0e       8ilsting lOT factory.
VIll   P1t8sW tt    Solok/Suablr                  444       Not enough crop + avallable processing
faciliti ..
x   as ti/       Tebeeanw/Saol               9,840       *istitg 20/40? fctorny, expnsilon
alrady on the way.
XI   P1R5  I      Labat/Susel                   sit       Not enug  crop + available processag
facilitis.
III  Nu In          Cikaso/Jabs                  718       A 2.5 T/day eAstin  sheot factory is
Soing to be expanded.
III  Nms VI        Afrablnta/Jabar               539       St/day "eting factory + not eough
cop tor expanson.
III   as vII       Sanbs/alb                   4,280       a 20/401 factory is uner desig  an
lOtA  be operatin  within two yna.
XvIt  PI3SS It    V.ijuliSei.                       -       No          wefo   1994/95.
mII  t913           it   Tabeoeg/Kee               351        W&t enough co  + available processing
XVIII   91355 UI    Psrahn181S                     76,                          U
mIII  Ply=  1   It .      n /flS                   93
XVtI    as V/Vt       seJ,tass au                5,022       A 20140?  eatory to t de cont
tion. ad4 shold be operating by
October 196.
mtI   P13858 ti    Poso/quiten$                    774        Not  _n oh   oP.
EX     P135  II    Kt. Varlnin/alteng             246       Not enouh co  +  availabl  processig
facIlities.
XVIIt   338 n          S ejre/N14                   436        not eno   crop.
MM    PM=  *t   tlnSWIhl/lISS                     255                          '



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix B
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Procurement of Factories
Bactground
1.        The Government of Indonesia (COX) and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) intend to enter into a loan agreement to
finance rubber ant palm oil factories for existing NES (IBRD assisted), PIR
Khusus and PIR Lokal Projects required for GOI FY88/89 up to 1992/93. Six of
the palm oil factories (five x 30 tons FF3/hr and one X 60 tons FFB/hr) are
urgently required to process FFB from oil palms which are already, or will
shortly be, bearing.
Objectives
2.        The objectives of procurement in this project are tot
(a) Obtain the lowest costs consistent with quality.
(b) Enhance the degree of standardization among palm oil factories (use
of prestantardized specifications).
(c) Enhance monitoring and operating efficiency.
(d) Achieve economies in training and flexibility in transfer of factory
personnel.
(e) Ensure that important machinery/equipment and works are in
accordance with quality standards by using an independent
engineering inspection services.
Method of Procuremnt
3.        All civil works and equipmet will be procured br international
comptitive bidding (ICB) according to IBRD procedures. Contracts for the
factories will be procured on a single responsibility basis in accordance with
agreed tender documets based on standardized designs. Tender documets for
the first six palm oil factories have taken pre-standardization specifications
into consideration, as prepared by TKPIR and reviewed by the Bank.
4.        Prequalification of bidders will be done on a central basis, by a
prequalification comittee established for this purpose under Tim Ehusus.
Prequalified bidders will be eligible to bid for any of the project factories
for one year following prequalification, after which prequalification will
again be necessary.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix $
Page 2
5.        Contracts for the factories will be tendered and awarded by the
individual PTPs.
Implementation Schedule
6.        The time schedule for the first six palm oil factories is:
Processing Time
Action                                                      Months
1.   Issuance of prequalification documents up to end of
prequalification process                                     2.5
2.   Issuance of tender documents up to submission of bids        2.0
3.   Opening of bide up to award to winning bidders               2.0
4.   Signing of contracts                                          1.0
S.   Opening of Letters of Credit                                 3.0
6.   Construction/execution of main contract                      18.0
Total                                                 28.5



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Training
1.        The project recognizes the importance of a well trained and
motivated workforce to the efficient operation of rubber and palm oil
factories and includes a comprehensive training component. The objectives of
the training component include both project related training for all levels of
factory staff and the strengthening capacity of subsector agencies.
2.        The training component would provide:
(a) Construction of suitably equipped modest training facilities
(comprising classroom and dormitory space for 25 trainees) for palm
oil processing at one of the new palm oil factories (PTP Vs Riau);
(b)  Precomissioning for factory managers, engineers, skilled workers
and other staff;
(c) On-the-job training;
(d) Longer term domestic and overseas training for selected staff of the
DGE, LPP, TRPIR and DISBUN;
(e) Capacity strengthening of DGE and related Government agencies in the
tree crop processing subsector, through training of selected staff
at the Tree Crop Management Institute (LPP);
(f) Structure and guidelines for LPP for post-project coordination of
tree crop processing training programs;
(g) Technical assistance for training in (i) Tim Khusus (Monitoring and
Analysis Division) to provide overall coordination to project-wide
training and (ii) PTPs, where training needs would be continuously
assessed, training programs organized and trained performance
evaluated; and
Management of the Training Program
3.        Responsibility for overall management of the project training
program would be assigned to TKPIR. A training consultant would be attached
to the Monitoring and Analysis Division in TKPIR for a period of 3 years. The
consultant would, in consultation with PTP management, PTP headquarters
consultants and processing consultants at TKPIR, plan and implement the
project related training program for factory staff. The consultant would also
plan the training of staff of other institutions (para. 2. (e)), oversee
implementation, prepare guidelines for post-pro-ect training coordination by



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
Page 2
LPP and evaluate the results. The TKPIR training consultant's main duties
would be to:
(a)  organize the training program for each specific factory and to
ensure all resources, human and physical, are available when
required and in the most cost effective manner;
(b)  recruit on-site training engineers for the various disciplines (oil
palm processing, rubber processing, maintenance, effluent control,
etc.);
(c)  organize and schedule practical on-site training programs with the
different PTPs;
(d)  evaluate results of practical on-site training;
(e)  discuss, identify and plan future training requirements;
(f)  prepare budgets, recruit resource people and organize the
reimbursement to the PTPs of training costs; and
(g) schedule overseas training courses as required.
Precommissioning Training
4.        To ensure smooth commissioning and satisfactory early operation,
precommissioning training is essential. For this purpose early and systematic
appointment of managerial and operational staff is necessary, in accordance
with the schedule reflected in Attachment 1. After commissioning, intensive
on the job training would be provided by site training engineers.
5.        The precommissioning training would consist of:
(a)  theoretical training at LPP overseen by the TKPIR consultant who
would, assist the PTP HQ consultant in the preparation of course
design and implementation;
(b)  practical training at the training facilities for palm oil
processing built under the project at one of the new palm oil
factories (PTP V, Riau), as well as at established and efficiently
operated factories. The sites for this training would be selected
by the TKPIR training consultant, in agreement with PTP management,
and PTP headquarters processing consultants at TXPIR;
(c) practical training by machinery suppliers as part of the machinery
supply contract.
Coordination of Training at Factory Sites
6.        A key activity in the TCPP training program would be practical
training of staff at the factory sites. This would be carried out by a team
of mobile ttaining engineers, who would rotate around the factories providing
specialized and practical training. The work of the mobile site training



- 71'-
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
Page 3
engineers would be coordinated by the TKPIR training consultant. Terms of
Reference for the site training engineers and the TKPIR training consultant
are in Annex 5.
7.        During project implementation each PTP would be expected to assign
at least one counterpart to work with the PTP long term processing consultant
on training related activities. The PTP counterpart would also work with the
visiting site training engineers assisting with the organizatio" of the
tra4ning program and observing training techniques. The PTP training
counterpart would be expected' to play an important role in ensuring training
activity continuity after project completion. In the final year of project
implementation, all PTP training counterparts would participate in a training
of trainers course involving TKPIR PTP management, the site training
engineers, the remaining PTP long term consultants and LPP to establish the
role of training after project completion.
8.        Total requirements for on-site training by mobile engineers have
been estimated and are presented in Attachment 2.
Other Trainins
9.        An important aspect of the project is the building of technical and
training capacity to ensure the continuing efficiency of processing
operations. Selected staff in the DGE's Directorate of Programs and Agro-
business and processing and in Tim Khusus would be trained in a variety of
processing related fields. Provincial and District Estate Crops Services
staff, the marketing association and the joint marketing office would also be
included in the program. Training, which would be coordinated by TKPIR, would
be carried out in Indonesia and overseas. A summary of the planned program of
training is in Attachment 3.
10.       Two LPP staff members (one for rubber, one for oil palm) would
undertake an eight-month tailor made course in the region to become familiar
with the operation and maintenance of factories. The course which would be
designed by TCPP training and technical consultants would give the LPP staff
members detailed exposure to the key factory posts, processes and tasks. On
their return to LPP the staff mcmber. would take responsibility from preparing
case and other teaching materials to be used in LPP's continuing input into
management training for the crop processing. Preparation of case study
materials would involve visits to Indonesian rubber and palm oil factories.
These LPP staff members would be expected to play a key role in the post-
project coordination of LPP tree crop processing training.
11.       Table 1 summarizes the factory training requirements for the
project.



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
Page 4
Table 1I TRAINING REQUIRIKENTS
No. of staff
Type of                  to be trained          No. of             Total staff
factory'                  per factory         factories           to be trained
1. Rubber Factory
10/20 t                 13                   1                   13
20/40t                  13                   6                   78
Esxp to 40 t             7                   4                   28
2. Palm Oil Factory
30 t                    43                   8                  344
60 t                    28                   1                   28
Kxp to 60 t             71                   S                  355
Total                                                           846
12.       Attachment 4 indicates the main training requirements for each
category of staff in rubber and palm oil factories.
13.       Detailed descriptions of factory staffing requireaents and key staff
job descriptions are contained in the Working Papers.



- 73 -
ANNEX2
Appendix C
Attachment I
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Training
Recruitment Before Commissioning /a
(Months)
Title                          Months                    Remarks
Ractory manager                   6            Precommissioning recruitment
Assistant manager                 6            will allow time for some theore-
Maintenance engineer              6            tical and practical training and
Assistant engineers               3            familiarization with new plant,,
Supervisors                       3          --'in readiness for start-up.
Workshop foreman                  6
Engine drivers                    3
Boiler attendants                 2
Process workers                   2
General workers                   1
mechanics                         3
/a  Training-program content to be decided by TKPIR Training Consultant, in
consultation with PTP management, PTP headquarters processing consultau`s,
TKPIR processing consultants, LPP and machinery suppliers.
Machinery Practical Training at SuppliersE Workshops
Title                   Rubber    Palm oil               Remarks
(Weeks) -
Factory manager            1           2       To assist with assembly of
Assistant manager         2            4       machinery components, examine
Maintenance engineer       4           4       working drawings and materials,
Assistant engineers       4            4       learn welding techniques and
Workshop foreman           4           4       become familiar with general
Senior mechanics          2            3       machinery construction.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
Attachment 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Training
On-Site Training Consultancy Baeuirements
(In weeks per factory)
Trailing required          Operation    Water       Effluent              Labora-   Admin.  Process
In                  process   treatment   treatment  Workshop   tory         org.      eng.
Raw water treatment                         1
Boiler water treatment                      1
Effluent treatment                                      3
Process/quality coat.           1                                                                 5
Boiler operation                1                                                                 1
Engine room operation           1                                                                 1
Sterilisation operation         1                                                                 1
Threshing                       I                                                                 I
Pressing                        1                                                                 1
Clarification                   1                                   1                             1
Cracklng nuts                   I                                                                 1
Kernel resove                   1
Stock management                                                                        I
Safety                          1                                   1                             I
Maintenance planniwg            1                                   1
Workshop practice                                                   5
Office AD/stocks                                                                        1
Laboratory                                                                    4
Precommissioning                6
Start-up                        3           1           1
Total                    20           3            4          8          4         2       13
-                      -            -           -                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
Attachment 3
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Trainins
Pro*psed Training Courses for Government Agencies
No, of
Agencies                         persons                  Courses/majors
Eduatlion (Masters Degrees)
Directorate of Program, DCE        2      Internationally traded commodities and agricul-
tural development economics
Directorate of Agrobusiness        4      Process engineering; ecology and environmental
and Processing, DOE                     sciences; marketing and sales, and economics of
location, transport economics and farn manage-
ment
TKPIR, DWE                         2      Rural extension and statistics, monitoring and
evaluation
Marketirg Association              I      Marketing dlstribution economics
Provincial Estate Crops           12      Factory maagement and operations, environmental
Services                                controls and agricultural planning depending on
criteria to be agreed upon
Traini   (Ovrseas)
Provincial and District           12      Smallholders tree crop produce pricing, farm
Estate Crops Services                   maageamnt and processing
Marketing Association              S      Market trends, market research/intelligence/sta-
tistics and marketing
Joint Marketing Office             9      Selling of rubber, palm oil and other estate
crops products
LPP                                2      Tailor-made course for processing management
training and preparation of case studies and
other teaching materials.
Traing (Local)
DGE                               30      Processing, smallholders priciug, extension and
farmers organization, effluent control
Provincial and District           12      Same as DOE local training
Estate Crops Services
Total                    91



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix C
A&tachment 4
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Training Requirements
Position                                        Type of training requirements
Factory manager                          (On-the-job) practical and theoretical in rubber/
palm oil factory
Assistant factory manager                As above
Maintenance engineer                     As above
Shift engineer                           As above
factory supervisor                       As above
Workshop foremen                         Practical and theoretical in engineering workshop
at a large rubber/palm oil factory with a profes-
sional maintenance and training engineer
Workshop foremen (vehicle)               Practical and theoretical in vehicle suppliers/
agents workshop on actual machinery being used in
the factory
Chief clerk                              Attachment to rubber/palm oil factory
Laboratory analyst                       On-the-job in established rubber/palm oil factory
Workshcp mechanics                       Training In basic skills, fitting, turning, weld-
ing, measuring equipment. Tolerances, fits, bear-
ings, welding, burning
Workshops (electrical)                   Basic skills.  Motors, bearings, starters, wiring,
testing, electrical general maintenance
Workshops (vehicle mechanies)            Basic skills.  Measuring equipment, tolerances
Workshops (vehicle electrics)            Basic skills, wiring testing, trouble shooting (on-
the-job training)
Boiler attendant (w/certificate)-S       Attachment to large established palm oil factory
(on-the-job with supervision)
Engine driver (w/certificate)-3          Attachment to latge established palm oil factory
(on-the-job wich supervision)



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Appendx D
Page 1
INDONEsIA
TREE cRoP PROCESSING PROJECT
Project Msnagement
1.        Factory management.  Project management faces a difficult task in
providing guidance and support for PTPs in the management of their facto-
ries. The difficulty stems from the present lack of uniformity of task
responsibility given to Directors of Development, Comercial Directors and
Directors of Production in the PTPs. The post of Development Director was
created by a 1980 DCE decree to take responsibility for development
activities, especially in the NES projects. So far, the primary responsi-
bilities of the Development Director have focussed on new planting. This
project proposes as .igning the role of construction supervision to the
Dmelopmeat Director, but no provision has yet been made for the operational
phase. The specific role of the site managers in management of the
operational phae should be clarified.
2.        Zey management recomaendations for this project are:
(a) Factory staff appointmnets should be completed ahead of
couissioning so that appropriate training can be arranged. Senior
factory Managers should be appointed at least 6 months before
couissioning and the other Staff grade personnel at least three
months before c missioning.
(b) To ensure appropriate appointments, profiles of each post have been
prepared.  It is expected that Factory Managers will be of Staff
Grade V or VI. Others would be Staff Grades III or IV. Goenrally
CPO factory staff will be more senior than those for the rubber
factories.
(e) After commissioning, operational responsibilities would be assigned
to the Site Managers. This is the normal arrangement in ost PTPs,
but an eplicit statemoet to this effect would be useful to focus on
the management resporsibilities for proper maintenance and efficient
operation.
3.        The project's management plan also includes arrangements to ensure
that the facilities are being operated efficiently according to normal
industry technical standards and operating guidelines, and provides for a
sound system for monitoring compliance with the standards and guidelinss.
4.        PhS0anement of Environmental Protection Comonent.  Overall project
coordination and managemet for the establishment of the two Pollution
Momitoring and Control Authorites in North Suastra and Vest Kalimantan
provinces will be the responsibility of Tim Khususc. owever, at the
provincial level, the coordinating unit in DWA responsible for facilitating
the work of the consultants will be the provincial tree crops authority (Dinas



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Agpendix D
Page 2
Perkebunan). This unit will liaise closely with the Provincial BKLH which
will form a Steering Comittee under the Secretariat of the Provincial
Governor to provide overall guidance to the consultants and to facilitate
agreements within the various provincial Government departmeonts and with
industry. The Steering Committee will consist of representatives of BLH,
Public Works, Industry, Health, Bappeda, Finance and Agriculture as well as
public and private industry and University representatives.
5.        For the survey of pollution control requirements of existing PTP
processing facilities, Tim Khusus will again act as the project coordinator
and manager. One of the Tim Khusus staff should be assigped to the
environmental component of this project as a means of on-the-job training and
to ensure that these aspects of the project receive adequate attention
throughout the implementation period. The person selected should have good
communication skills and be an effective coordinator and organizer.



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
Appendi. E
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The scope of the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for this
project covers both the period of construction/expansion of factories as well
as the initial phase of their operation. Although the Monitoring and Analysis
Division in Tim Khusus and the field units located in the PTPs are involved in
both periods, their relative roles would be somewhat different during each
period as the management focus would be changed after the commissioning of the
factories. During the construction (and expansion) period, the project
manager would be the Chairman of Tim Khusus to whom all monitoring information
would eventually be channelled so that implementation problems would be
speedily detected and appropriate actions taken to ensure smooth and timely
progress. After factory commissioning, management of the facilities would be
the sole responsibilities of the PTPs and the operation efficiency monitoring
information would be suboitted regularly by factory management to the
Directorate of the PTPs for action and copied to Tim Ehusus for cross-sectoral
comparison and guidance.
2.        Tim Khusua has accumulated considerable experience in monitoring and
evaluation by performing such a function for various Bank supported project
and in monitoring implementation of internally financed factory
construction. At the PTP level, a management information system concerLing
factory operations is already in place since the esrly 1980s. lowever, both
these aspects are in need of improvement to take advantage of modern
monitoring techniques. The design of the monitoring and evaluation system of
the project is premised on the existing system but to the extent possible
incorporates modern information technologies and enriches the analytical
content of informution already routinely collected.
3.        For monitoring physical and financial progress during the period of
factory construction and/or expansion, work performance would be measured on
the basis of a detailed implementation plan and monthly expenditures expressed
cumulatively as a budget curve (S-curve). Target completion dates and
associated expenditures of each constituent activity in the construction of a
palm oil or rubber factory would be calculated by a scheduling mad costing
program. The monitoring and evaluation sub-unit of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) would bx responsible for prompt reporting to the Monitoring and
Analysis Division in Tim Ihusus as and whe each activity is completed. The
Unit in Tim Khusus would perform the necessary computations to check for
deviations from tbg 8-curve and report to the Project Manager (Chairman of Tim
Khusus) as well as advising uhether management action is needed. The
monitoring and Analysis Division would also integrate the information from the
variout construction sites into an overall progress report to be submitted Lo
the Bank on a quarterly basis. For this purpose, the Monitoring and Analysis
Division in Tim Ihusus would also assist the PTPs in developing the detailed
implementation scheduLe and budget; design the appropriate format for progress



- 80 -
ANNE% 2
Appendix E
Page 2
reporting by the monitoring and evaluation sub-unit of the PIUs; and provide
the necessary training to the sub-unit staff in performing their monitoring
function.
4.        After factories are commissioned, the function of the monitoring and
evaluation sub-unit would be transformed, shifting its focus on implementation
progress to the monitoring of operational efficiency on behalf of the PTP
through the site manager. Currently, data on factory inputs and outputs of
existing facilities are being routinely kept up to date by the Factory Manager
(Factory Chief Assistant) and reported on a standard format to the PTP
Directorate through the Site Manager (Administrator). The primary purpose of
this recording system is to maintain a form of cost control in factory
operations. However, only very limited analyses are performed and much of the
information is expressed in terms of production cost per unit of output. As
costs are price-sensitive, it is difficult to detect changes in production
efficiency relative to technical standards. Under the monitoring and
evaluation system to be introduced under the project, a range of technical
efficiency indicators would be included. A proposed list of possible
indicators has been discussed with management entities during appraisal and
the project has provisions for a technical consultant to assist in developing
an operational format for collection and computation of the indicators (see
Working Papers.
S.        Included among the technical indicators are those relating to
effluent monitoring to be maintainesi by the Factory Management. Although the
overall environmental control monitoring would be done by an c7ternal agency
(PMCA) in accordance with GOI procedures, there is a need for internal
monitoring to make sure that the effluent control facilities built into the
design of the new and expanded factories are being operated properly. The
sample indicators required for this purpose are also discussed in the Working
Papers. Daily measurements of pH values, solid content and alkalinity at the
effluent outflow would be reported to the Monitoring and Analysis Division in
Tim Khusus on a regular basis with copy forwarded to the Bank as part of the
quarterly progress report of the project.
6.        Difficulties were encountered in estimating working capital
requirements of the project factories during appraisal, though the need for
additional working capital was obvious. Project injection of initial working
capital was deemed necessary for ensuring smooth operation of the new and
improved facilities, but it is intended that each factory should be able to
generate sufficient working capital of its own in succeeding years. While
factory operation costs and value of products are regularly recorded and
forwarded to the PTP Directorate for inclusion in the PTP accounting and
financial reporting systems. There has so far been no attempt to assess the
financial efficiency of the operating factories. Under the projeet, a simple
financial reporting system, treating the factory as a financial entity would
be introduced so as to ensure that sufficient working capital would be
available at the factory level. Such a financial reporting system has been
designed by the Monitoring and Analysis Division in Tim Khusus and discussed
with the appraisal misuion. It seems that a cash flow statement, a profit and
loss statement, a statement on the sources and applications of funds, and a
balance sheet, can be constructed from records already being maintained at the



- 81 -
ANNEX 2
Appendis E
Page 3
factory level. Under the project, Tim Khusus, with the assistance from its
consultants, would introduce the system to the PTPs and when the system
becomes operational would analyze these financial statements, consolidating
them for reporting to the Bank. On a trial basis, these statements would be
constructed for a small sample of existing factories and after suitable
adjustmeAts where necessary, the system would be introduced to all factories
supported by the project.
7. *      The cost estimates for Monitoring and Evaluation quoted in the test
of the Appraisal report refer to those additional costs to be incurred by the
Monitoring and Analysis Division in Tim Khusus, covering such items as
training, technical assistance, incremental equipment purchase and operational
costs and do not include those relating to implementing the monitoring and
evaluation system at the factory level which is a direct and ongoing
responsibility of the PTPs for the sole benefit of operating their facilities
efficiently. It is expected that once the system has operated smoothly, the
technical and financial monitoring systems would be integrated fully into the
managemeat information system of the PTPS.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
Page X
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Crop Projections and Factory Requirements
Selection of Rubber Factories
1.       The base yield profile used for the establishment of crop projec-
tions for rubber in the Tree Crop Processing Project (see Table 1) has been
derived from the various yield profiles assumed in th NES I and NES VII
projects, and the actual yields recorded (see Table 2).
2.        A peak yield of 1,800 kg/ha has been assumed, with an average of
1t230 kg/ha over the expected 25 year tapping cycle. The im_ature period for
the Tree Crop Processing Project has been increased from the 5 years assumed
in NX I to NES VII, to 6 years for the Vuc'-eus Istate and 7 years for the
smallholder ateas.
3.       Yield projections for each project site have been derived for the
nucleus estate and smallholder areas using a percentage of the base figure of
1,800 kg/ba peak and 1,230 kg/ha average over the tapping cycle of the trees.
This percentage is based on the data obtained from the PTPs, and confirmed or
revised after field visits of the different sites. It is also baed on the
assessed ability of the PTPs to implement the project successfully. The
percentage goes as low as 65X ano as high as 1002.
4.        For the smallholder areas, it has bee  assumed, except in a few
remote sites, that a percentage of their crop would be sold to private
remillers. The percentage of 8 rubber supplied to the PTP factories varies
from 802 to 1002. (See Table 3.)
5.        The detailed crop projections for all project rubber factory sites
are given in Working Paper C-10.
Selection of Palm Oil Factories
6.        The base yield profile used for the establishment of crop projection
for m   in the Tree Crop Processing Project is the Nerihat Research Institute
(Puat Penelitian tarihat, PP9) yield curve for class II areas extended to 25
years of production (see Table 1). Peak yields are projected to reach 27
tons/ha. Extraction rates of 212 and 4.52 have been assumed respectively for
oil an  kernel, baed on available records. Production has been assumd to
start in the fourth year after planting.
7.       Yield projections for each project site have been derived for the
nucleus estate and smallholders areas using a percentage of the base yield
profile. This percentage, like for rubber, is based on the data obtained from
the PTPs and on observations mede during field visits: it varies from 701 to
902. Smallholder yields are assumed to be 15Z below the nucleus estate
yields. (Sae Table 4.)



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
8.        The detailed FF8 crop projections for all project palm oil factory
sites are given in the Working Papers.



- 84 -
AkNEX 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Base Yield Profiles for Rubber and Oil Palm
Rubber                                      Oil Palm
Tapping year       Yield (KSgha)        Year of production  Yield (tons FFB/ha)
1                      500                    1                      1
2                       700                   2                     14
3                    1,000                    3                     18
4                     1,000                    4                    21
5                    1,200                    5                    24.5
6                    1,200                     6                   26.5
7                    1,400                     7                    27
8                    1,400                     8                    27
9                    1,SOO                    9                     27
10                    1,500                   10                     27
11                    1,600                   11                     27
12                    1,?00                   12                     27
13                    1,800                   13                    26.5
14                    1,700                   14                    26.5
15                    1,600                   1S                     24
16                    1,500                   16                     24
17                    1,300                   17                    22.5
18                    1,200                   18                     22
19                    1,10O                   19                    21.5
20                    1,100                   20                     21
21                    1,100                   21                    19.5
22                    1,000                   22                    18.5
23                      900                   23                    17.5
24                      900                   24                     17
25                      800                   25                    16.5
Total                   30,700                                         550
Averae                    1,230                                        22.0



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Rubber Yield Prolections Used for NES VII Project
Sambas, West Kalimantan, PTP XII /a
1981/82, 1982/83 and 1983/84 area               1984/85 and onwards area
kg/ha/year                                kg/ha/year
Tapping    Nucleus    Small-              Tapping    Nucleus    Small-
Age     year       estates    holders    Age       year      estates    holders
7        1           475         430      6         1          542         474
8        2           800         700      7         2          895         773
9        3         1,000         850      8         3        1,130         949
10        4         1,100         980      9         4        1,266       1,085
11        5         1,200       1,000     10         5        1,322       1,102
12        6         1,250       1,050     11         6        1,374       1,159
13        7         1,450       1,200     12         7        1,589       1,338
14        8         1,500       1,300     13         8        1,668       1,424
1S        9         1,550       1,350     14         9        1,701       1,463
16       10         1,600       1,370     15        10        1,767       1,498
17       11         1,700       1,400     16        11        1,864       1,566
18       12         1,750       1,500     17        12        1,953       1,663
19       13         1,700       1,500     18        13        1,892       1,611
20       14         1,700       i,500     19        14         1,831      1,559
21       15         1,600       1,500     20        15        1,770       1,507
22       16         1,600       1,350     21        16        1,739       1,481
23       17         1,500       1,200     22        17        1,582       1,329
24       18         1,500       1,200     23        18        1,553       1,305
25       19         1,350       1,150     24        19        1,464       1,251
26       20         1,350       1,100     25        20        1,437       1,228
27       21         1,250       1,050     26        21        1,251       1,146
28       22         1,150       1,000     27        22        1,268       1,066
29       23         1,150       1,000     28        23        1,234       1,017
30       24           950        850      29        24        1,107         941
31       25           850         750     30        25          976         840
Total         33.025      28,280                         36.275      30,775
Average/year         1,321       1,130                          1,43'      1,231
/a As of November 15, 1985.
Note: Using Ethrel for both nucleus estate and smallholder areas, small-
holder yields are projected at about 85Z of nucleus estate yields.



- 86-
ANM4EX 3
Table 3
INCONSIA
?RCt CROP pROCtSSKUG PROJZCt
Rubber Ytld Ass.mptloa
I of     I of
;gcleuo                                     Planted ath"5a)    bass    SR crop
state                  Locatton                    aMtu1 up    AM1   to m
PTP    Project    (sttelprovtnea)        Program  to 1986/87  U- SH  factory                   Co ens
t       Xas  UUI  Alue te tarab/Aceh        17,382    17,382     90  65    too    Poor quality planttngs in SR areas.
lIz     vFa LoWal  Labuban Bhtu/Su  t        9,316     9,316           0     s0
IV       NES It     Ojubang/Jbt              7,134     7.042     90  bO      80    Plata*g  rtegulat in early years. but
upkeep and management m0ch isprovwd
receGtly.
33  UI     Air  olok/fiaJ u        17,H92    17,692    100  90      80    Pla"ttags generally of a h1gb standerd.
VI       NB3  III   Uklbo IujagJambl         18,198    18,198     90  00      80    Late supplying no *ealy years but re-
cent improwvemt ia upkeep.
PIOPUS I   Ourlrn tacu/Jambt    10,041        9,041    100 *0       00    Plaonntg  genarally of a high otsadard,
preent M"gaemt - t  ffective.
Kill     nUS t   sit nglX lbat               8,080      7,426      -   -       -    O4ly coaulatito  ceoters.
vItl   NuS ttt        e on" Salavk laol,    15,128    15,72U      90  70     00    tscellot rubber posing area, but
lelag problem hae not beem properly
delt witb in plasa areas.
KRXtt    PtISUS I   Kstahuo0Dmagkulu         7,000     5,498    as  75    100    Vary hlly are, but plantings
geanally good.  no prtvate reillers.
XVI      PtRSUS K   ?saju _manu:nIltla    4,000        4,000      90  75    100
4N * NUCleUJ estato; SR * *malboldet.



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
FFB Yield Assuptions
of
Nucleus                                         Planted area (ha)        Base
estate                   Location                        Actual up        told
PTP    Project      (site/province)        Program    to 1986/87       U   SR
Zt    PIE Lokal    Labuhan Batu/Sumut  -  15,284         14,584      90    75
IV     PIRSUS II    Set Bahar/JaubL         15,530       14,530      90    75
IV     PIRSUS SI    Bagan Sinembah/Riau      7,979        7,979      90    75
V      PIR          Sel Intan/Paiu           8,000        6,000      90    75
VI    PIR           Kalianta/Riau            4,300        4,300      90    75
VII   PIRSUS I      Parindu/Kalbar           9,300        6,143      'S    70
VII   N%S V         Ngabang/Kalbar          14,500        7,342      85    70
sX     PIR Lokal    Cot Girek/Aceb          12,000        3,200      85    70
X      PIRSUS It   Prabumulih/Sussel         6,052        4,137      90    75
%      PIRSUS II    Muara Euln/Suael         9,384        5,153      90    7!
NE a Nucleus estate; Si a sallholder.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Financial and Economic Rates of Return /a
(Z)
Financial               Economic
Site                                 rate of return /b       rate of return /c
Palm Oil Factories
Bagan Sinembab                               19                       81
Sei Bahar                                    23                       69
Cot Girek                                     i8                      53
Sei Intan                                    19                       60
Kalianta                                     33                       50
Labuhan Batu                                 26                       62
:-uara Enim/Prabumulih                       20                       65
Ngabang                                      33                       97
ParinCu                                      17                       70
Rubber Factories
Air Molek                                   392                       129  d
Alue le Merah                                78                       19
Bajubang                                     60                       85 /d
Danau Salak                                 100                       21
Durian Luncuk                                33                       20
Ketahun                                      44                       28
Labuhan Batu                                  19                      18
Rimbo Bujang                                 49                       24
Tanjung Santan                               38                       20
/a    In real terms.
7b    To the PTP.
7W    To the economy.
7Wt   Returns are exceptionally high for these rubber factories because only
relatively small investments In existing factories are needed to double
output.
Pote:  See Working Paper C-1 for detailed economic and financial analyses.



'Ii 
%Qg  jIt      8* awgtSNCit USW  SitS  0 VIM  eaa  919%G  IWS0   I aM  W    A IEg LOW t WMsi oM*     I   0   0  SE       Pe
EGIII"fGf EUMso Wa0iE  (6  ern(aml  au9   gm   smi 1  111( imm  1mB £51     amewu   WA  dew  ON" Beol 9m a
§ - ^ tW sX vr-~~~-      -     mu 
66 EU1I1 61W 6601G   a  %12191~f II  WIS e hUh 5EVI    1E 916ZI U1 ElGaI 241 6101 lIES 61 S61 9h  IuG1
gEl  AM  0   0   0   1910          AM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 4~  DUM
S:~~m
AM  11        Ma0                                                                  _ _ as   f  SS  vfi     S 
gliEt 1"  to  614  a66 g OM99S tus "Mt tw               m gmO               W    6          a vna*  "
9i OR  Am   D   0   0          0                                 IW0    0                    -  at o
a~t Sui  m   0      0   0       0             JILI              0   0                           amL   Mt
O         z! 0S Sp    0! afl as Ns                                       0fsls2F! epI;eget
Eai %ai~m mu     i                                                          VW41
3L & Xi;   im jIL KS                                        wS tE 19 mog SZE a s
tS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- SS?4U 
Xk B U3it              L             s aILI                                iFL   LO
(L101  MIII~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UWA  O
aPa               P W                        
ax as -A           a



0I04-% - l lpit kg t.may PM It
tob*Sm  -    taUsn*0to -. U
palsan4
-  FB      t                        94f 96- WM@g  9t3Sl 9"OV §WM  GMs Oue            OMSW    0V WO6 MM  OTAOi MM9 oYi
WM@1
sum mm ow  goi~i oii  .61w R    -0os wwiw m -               a-w  mi  mm          a    oiis MOT  TAl OI'J 20/
WD -  -na 
0 b
S~~~~~~~~~~O oi  go go in 8M 80 80  8       o|                   2 8s o8°  o8s                                      e°
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ew1: 
CFO P pri   ton)                                                                                       6
M    taIaa  *t6wo ton)       S'0Z       2 cS: &   S:gl  &R  002&  Sti:  kg   0mt  SJ   -   &    02 1#    I          t  0        2i68
2imn ta¶t
RTA O  C15 l5t  stZ o   t ist "To to  in t-                                                 m         I in laU Jt tt a tb30
">9wt"9 OWL           3"m  i"ssr                            5n in  "M  "z  I3sw la           "M6 1"r  3"M tZ5  I215lnl 31102
Tmw.~~~~~~~~~~~~ _odfa            .                                                                         "IS,  
~~~1 bm ~ ~ ~~~21t.0                                                                             0 
13ior199  1 131
Din. ~lf16*a OMT
=to0                          M ft 1m65I=                  A M   IBM S    0 oo    oai 0    0165   06 0 11 0    0* O     t    0M 139
lkt aL*lowWOW  Sft  -6    3t 1009 0    0  IS 0 O17G3   0 M 0         130 US     01'M   0M 03 13        0     0173 025V     W  g  t
IWV L  OM 7521U                         7    331   1    33             196293          1        %3231136   935 
Utb1*                                                                                                                            w



'III
San
t ~~~~~~~~~~~w      sia t l   $$ 
28Z9  a9      L9 I9pEbW 0SI          AS119 11 89    Ma  IE6 _~ *w  mm m- -   ciro A) 1pq 
595 tgS WW  m :R  iS   t0   5   Im11W  -  e  e  41                         3     _ 
UL                            t-                                   t             i 1w i
a          auRa
MES   O  S 619 IS5 W S  mG  fi*949 S  g  9 GM  SML A"  gmS anwsmWS £a  g u    V     Wda) 1po 
sw6  S1EE £ E ua wa iw             uw  1W ma gW an     r nW  a  aE   GM U G                V
t t | t t t t g t t t | t t 9ttltlt~~~aWm I= t"
t t t t t t st t t s t st s s a st t t t B~~~~~~~t  twuber
st/b EWP SW SOlID SOlSO ~'w ~'V. fwu W1_ S_sDlES m W wa
V4  6                                          6                               (044~~~~~*Tu 1~  ~q   WIIU ~SOI



7P    uw mua                    a*.       6    s 
SIS ON OM  --  9317 gz93 -    90/S 95W OM OM  WI   OM  9           W   mlie  WM  03M  00/' OsM  O6a (Yrt0 W; W1I
r~~~~~~.4  1.42 lA I. l     Z
0   0   0             M2   2    20    12B              13 ISM  29E    1    13    131D 1   tWI     tIM  180
~~fla14E~~~~~w ~0  0                                           3           12                               1
Ibeal omt                   0   0
at wmut (uWo pejmt)         0   0   0   52 i9m  W00  p78  377  5KB  59  ~0   57%   78   SW   SW  5931  931  SWO  37   OM9  VM
t ra    t am
aM= mt                              V     m °                 I°   °   °    °    9    °   t9    0    0 0            VA0     0o0 0
20 
Onaltm,                            A
1bL31Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Com  0   0   0   a  ea~~~               0     0   A2     0          0    0          0     0 
lbtd Xt                     12 WOO 3192 3156   0  aSWo 2690  2Sl1  231e  Z16               0 Si 3990  1990  206  211            2 5>
ljbot)                 0   0  -22 -O  W10  5376 60,?  6 F 6505  6767  6915  t152  533111tl7205 mt   0115  015   907 t
ft~~Itt~VW  0   0   0  -22 -WOO  313 WI'! 552  2590  560  3142~   315W W9   3 0 3W                      03Z  106
Truq~~1 ~1ta  0   0   0  -1~2 -WOO  33                     9                                                                1219
. etw ~i  
TJzaM   170            0   0   225-131-136-8411?33?3M!13b,-0                                                      -y1-13 .6
I"~~~~~ .n 22     3        .. 4.            0 .        0    4 7         l,2        m IA    e    4 2" 
l3t bma °o (w P"t)     0   0  -0 4= 1-l m   S33  iw   60  6m   OM   G                         "   vil  72    m- TMi -t    am   0
0   * ~~~~  1l11~~~~413~~~~fI3R33R53~~~~~~041 
bivn to             00- a1m 11~1uT21111w1                                               ~    13131i315   1315   1310
310ccM -Wft                  oZSV   3'9!                                                                                     IW
2599
wq 0 awe 2M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I



- 93 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the
Standardization of Crude Palm Oil F&.tories
A. Background
1.        The Government of Indonesia (GO!) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Deselopment (IBRD) have and are jointly financing Nucleus
Estate and Smallholders Development Projects (NES) aside from wholly funded
PIR Projects by GO0. GOI and IBRD intend to jointly finance a Tree Crop
Processing Project for the construction/expansion of crude palm oil processing
facilities which the consulting firm shall take into account in undertaking
the scope of work in these Terms of Reference.
2.        At present each new construction or expansion of crude palm oil
factories for the Tarious Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Development CUES and
PIR) Projects is designed on a location/project basis, and even though moves
towards standardization have recently been made, different specifications and
configurations still result. Even a Government-owned estate enterprise (PTP)
which has several factories of the same size has not standardized its
designs. Each construction usually contains only general specifications of
mchinery and equipment, with minimum drawings for factory layout and
supporting facilities. Non-standardization results in a mixed inventory of
similar parts and non-interchangeability of spare parts, resulting in
inefficiency, and additional cost. Consultants for each construction and/or
expansion have to be hired both for the preparation of new tender specifica-
tions and for supervision.
3.        Standardization has the advantage of simplifying preparation before
construction. Studies such as site location considering relevant factors,
including soil investigation, design and specification of civil works would
still be done individually under separate terms of reference. All other
preparation before construction and/or expansion would not be repeated so that
time, money and effort would be saved. Likewise during construction,
supervision would be simplified and would result in more efficient monitoring
of costs both estimated and actual, also during the subsequent process
operation.
4.        During process, operation training of factory personnel would be
simplified and interchangeability of staff from one factory to another whether
in the same PTP or another will be facilitated. Variety of spare parts
carried would be reduced, hence disruption of operations due to lack of spare
parts should less frequent. Carrying cost of spares would be reduced.
Inventory control would be simplified sad even central inventory of spare
parts either by a PTP or a group of PTPs or the total PTP system could be
achieved with eventual standard maintenance workshops for repairs and
reconditioning.



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 1
Page 2
B.. -Objectives
5.        The main objectives which the standardization of factories and
related facilities is intended to achieve should include the following:
(a) The selection of appropriate design capacity factories, easy to
operate and manage and capable of producing good quality products at
high efficiency, low operating costs and cost effective investment.
(b) The selection of processing equipment and layout, building design on
the grounds of simplicity of construction, operation and
maintenance.
(c)  Care should be taken in the design and cLoice of equipment to ensure
continuity of processing facilities by duplication of essential
items of equipment without incurring excessive capital expenditure.
(d) An approprlate economic balance between capital investment and
operating costs.
(e) The preparation and production of standard tender documents,
specifications, engineering drawings and schedules. Special
consideration should be given to the preparation of standard
contract documents and conditions.
6.        In order to ensure that standardized designs achieve their objective
of maximizing benefits, it will be necessary to specify as closely as possible
all factory machinery and equipment, buildings and ancilliary works.
C. Scope of Work
7.        In undertaking this study, the consulting firm shall bear in mind
the palm oil factories which will- be cons.bzlcted/expanded under the Tree Crop
Processing Project. The consulting firm will:
8.        Review present outline designs, technical specifications, capacities
and capital cost, operating procedures including staffing, performance and
costs, raw materials inputs, marketable products and products qualities,
storage and transport requirements for palm oil factories operating in
Indonesia and other main producing countries in Asia.
9.        Indicate main points of similarity ot difference between the
Indonesian situation and other tropical regions and the technical, economic
and sociological justifications for any differences highlighted.
10.       Within the scope of standardization, select the most appropriate
technology, bearing in mind the various Indonesian situations and the possible
effects these will have on the forms and quantities in which the raw materials
will become available, and on the factory design and capacity requirements.
11.       Indicate where such improvements could be beneficially applied to
existing processing factories within Indonesia.



- 95 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 1
Page 3
12.       EstaL'ish the desirable minimum number of standardized factory sizes
for processing in Indonesia. These features will include the following:
(a) The required range in factory capacities, the capacity range in main
process, service machinery and equipment available from suppliers;
(b) The maximum and minimum factory capacit,ies considered desirable on
grounds of economic, power generation, transport requirements and
management control;
(c) The desirability of avoiding where practical the use of single
process lines and single items essential service machinery and
equipment in the event of breakdown.
13.       Consider the technical and economic advantages of alternative
process operations and machinery currently in use within palm oil factories,
select the appropriate operations and designs and indicate the expected
technical and economic benefits.
Such alternatives should include the following3
14. Loading Ramps
-    Design layout and capacity of loading ramps and the service area to
ensure adequate storage, ease of movement and efficient
unloading/loading.
-    Types of doors and driving arrangements for efficient transfer to
fruit cages, this must minimize spillage and allow filling to
capacity of fruit cages.
-    Sloping ramp surface shatted to otherwise
-    Methods of removal of dirt if shatted ramp is used.
-    Consideration must be given to ease of operation, maintenance and
cost.
15. Sterilizer/Marshallins Yard
Layout of marshalling yard and sterilizer station to ensure ease of
operation, with minimum cage movement.
The minimizing or removal of rail track crossovers, soitches,
turnouts, etc.
The minimizing or removal of vehicles from the
sterilizer/marshalling yard area, locomotives, skid steer loaders, tractors,
etc. in the interest of clean efficient operation.
The design of fruit cages with regards to operation and maintenance
requirements.



- 96 -
, t - ~~~~AIN=£ 5
TOR 1
Page 4
16. Sterilizers
Types of sterilizer capacity and number required to ensure smooth
operations for loading; maintaining factory throughput and utilizing steam
effectively in conjunction with the overall steam consumption of the factory.
The desigm of sterilizers with a view to maximizing life cycle with
minimum maintenance, wearplates door liners, jointing facest etc.
The ensuring of safe operation of doors by examination of fail safe
equipment.
The types of controllers/valves etc. for automatic multi-peak
operation which are robust in design and offer ease of maintennce for remote
sites and limited expertise.
17. Cranes/Lifting/Transferring of FFB to Thresher
Examine and determine the most efficient method of unloading
sterilized fruit into the threshing machine bearing in mind, throughput of
factory, continuity of process, additional cost of standby equipment.
Ease of operation and maintenance must be taken into consideration.
18. Threshing Machine
Examine different types of machine, feeding arrangements and
efficiency
Select machinery which offers trouble free operations, ease of
maintenance and clearing.
19. Pressing Station Presses Digesters
Determine the most suitable arrangement for press station with
regards to efficiency of operation, maintenance cleanliness and process
continuity.
ExAmine digesting and provide standard digester of adequate
cipacity, long life, low maintenance and ease of operation.
Make recomuendations with regards to presses, capacity, type etc.
bearing in mind, ease of operation and maintenance, cost of maintenance
meeting specifications with reguide to throughput extraction efficiency and
broken nuts and kernels.
20. Oil Cutter
Select the most appropriate design and materials.



- 97 -
AM=EX 5
TOI 1
Page 5
21. Vibrating MachInes
Determine the most efficient vibrating screens and establish their
necessity in all factories or otherwise, bearing in mind their role in
removing sand and solid before clarification.
22. Crude Oil Pumps
Determine the most appropriate type of pump, controller, etc. for
the continuous discharge of crude oil to clarification station, bearing in
mind, cost, maintenance, continuity of operation and maintenance cleanliness.
23. Cake Creaker Conveyor
Examine wse, speed and efficiency with regards to preparation of
fiber and nuts entering the depericarper.
Determine the needs for heating or otherwise.
Examine efficient entry to depericarper for max separation
efficiency.
24. Nut Bins
Determine retention time for adequate drying of nuts.
Specify heating and air requirements along with the most efficient
bin configuration.
Examine methods of controlled outlet for dried nuts and specify.
Ensure all drawings specifications are complete.
25. Cracking Station
Examine all methods of cracking in use and select the most efficient
system bearing in mind, cost, operational control, maintenance and site
isolation.
Design the cracking station most suitable for the needs and to give
the maximum cracking efficiency consistent with low uncracked and half cracked
nuts and low broken kernel content.
26. Kernel Recovery
Examine mthods of kernel, separation.
Recomend, design, enginezr the most appropriate kernel/shell
separation methods or methods in conjonction with, ease of operation and
maintenance consistent with high separation efficiency and low kernel losses,
high quality product.



- 98 -
ANNE S
TOR 1
Page 6
Power requirements should be barred in mind in the overall design of
the kernel recovery station.
27. Kernel Drying
Examine kernel drying needs in relation to retention time.
Recomaend, design, engineer kernel dryers of suitable configuration
specifying all air volumes, velocities, pressures, temperature heaters etc...
Ensure adequate means of controlled discharge of dried kernel exists
in relation to the needs of continuous production4
28. Kernel Storase
Examine storage methods available and recommend the system to be
used, bearing in mind cost, efficiency of storage and quality of the end
product.
Examine dispatch methods in relation to ease of dispatch, mainten-
ance of quatity and cost.
Design, engineer and specify all necessary equipment.
29* Motors/Cearboxes/Driving Arrangements
Select adequate motor sizes for all equipment and specify speed type
of motor to be used in accordance with ISO standards.
Select adequate sizes/speed ratio's etc. for all equipment and give
final speed output for all machinery.
Special attention must be given to the hostile environment, isolated
sites and lack of skills in operation and maintenance when making selection of
equipment.
30. Elevators
Examine the area of performance for each elevator with regards duty,
capacity, etc.
Design the most efficient, reliable elevator for each duty in
conjunction with capacity etc.
Specify all chain capacities/loads, pitch for buckets etc. to ensure
efficient discharge.
Ensure bucket design is correct for efficient operation.
Standardize sixes of elevetor as far as possible within the factory
to minimixe spare parts inventory.



_99 _
AN= 5
ToR 1
Page 7
Ensure tensioning and all engineering is well provided and
specified.
31. ConveLors
Examine duties for all conveyors within the factory.
Specify and design the types of conveyor for each duty.
Standardize and as far as possible the sines and types of conveyor
used in order to minimize spare parts.
Ensure all conveyors are designed for a have long life with ease of
maintenance and operation.
32. Depericarpers
Particular attention must be given to this machine; air volumes
velocities, fans, adjustment equipmeat should all be shown after selection of
the most suitable type of machine.
Efficient separation with low kernel loss and high reliability is
necessary.
Particular attention is necessary to the cyclone, wearing plates and
type of air lock and accessibility.
33. Clarification Station
Examine all methods of oil separation, recommend design engineer the
most suitable arrangement equipment bearing in mind, cost, efficiency of
recovery with losses within acceptable industry standards, maintenance, ease
of operation, remote site locations and low skill availability, also the
necessity to meet with environmental regulations.
Design, engineer, layout , the recoamended equipment providing all
operational and technical data used in the selection.
State operational performance parameters and quantify expected
losses.
34. Effluent Treatmet
Examine suitable known, accepted ethods of effluent treatment.
Select/recommend the most suitable system or systems, bearing in
mind the meeting of Government regulations, cost effectiveness of disposal of
treated effluent vis a vis discharge to waterways, cost of treatment plant/
area, ease of operation consistent with good control.
Design, engineer specify all parts of the treatment plant and
provide operating instructions, parameters etc.



- 100 -
ANV S
TOR I
Page 8
35.  Empty Bunch Disgosal
Look into the available means of cost effective disposal of empty
bunches ensuring no bunches are discarded which have not had all fruit etc.
and nuts remaved.
Select the most suitable method or disposal and provide
cost/benefits of the method choscn.
Design engineer, plan the necessary areas, equipment methods to be
followed,
36. Boilers
Examine types, sizes and suitability of boiler generally used within
the Palm Oil Industry.
Select the most suitable type or types, bearing in mind, water
sources and their likely sudden changes in quality, treatment and the
expertise available at remote sites, the amount or raw feed make up (951) the
consequences of poor feed water and control.
Engineering of boilers should also be considered with regar4s to,
ease of cleaning of tubes, access for cleaning, skill levels required for
maintenanee and repair.
Operating pressures, temperatures should be examined and the
necessary boiler capacity specified for standard size factories.
The number of boilers required and all necessary auxiliaries, (feed
pumps, degenerators, softeners heaters, etc. should be specified).
Standard boiler room layout, design, engineering, pipe runs, sizes
and specifications should be formulated.
37. Engine Rooms
Zquipment for the generation of electricity (steam and diesel) must
b examined in relation to factory power requirements.
Necessary sizing of generator for turbo-genset diesel gensets for
start-up and for lighting (domestic and factory).
General specifications for generator (steam and diesel) must be
given.
Layout, design of engine-room and operational procedure must be
specified.



- 101 -
AMEX S
TOR 1
Page 9
38.  Pipelines
All pipelines, sizes, materials will be specified and piperunh
specified throughout the factory.
39. Electrical
All electrical switchboards, controls, meters, lus bar sizes, cable
sizes, cable runs, etc. will be examined and standards established.  Sizes of
ACB-ECB's starters, etc. must be specified.
Plans, drawings specifications will be drawn accordingly, taking
into consideration, ease of operation, safety, cost and maintenance.
40.  Firefighting fEuimet
In case of fire the necessary equipment must be available.
Examination of present practice and bearing in mind government and insurance
regulations recommendations must be made.
Firefightiug equipment should be planned and strategically placed
for maximum coverage at reasonable cost.
41. Water Supply
A standard water treatment plant should be designed in conjunction
with quantity of water used and good water treatment practice.
The treatment plant should cover, river water intake, storage,
chemical addition flocculation, sediaentation, filtration chlorination for
domestic purposes.
Base exchange softeners should be included. Demineralization plants
are not necessary and will only be recomnended for specific sites.
Design of the treatment plant must include pumps storage tanks, etc.
with full operational instructions.
42. Oil Storage
General practice should be examined and recommendations made for,
storage capacity size and number of tanks, pipeline and pumping
recommendations. Provision for stock taking should also be considered.
43. Oil Dispatch
Adequate arrangements for oil dispatch are necessary and this should
be examined.
Recommendations, layout, pipe arrangement pumps, pumping rates
should be made with the provision of a covered area off access roads.



- 102 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 1
Page 10
44, Buildings
Main stesl framed buildings must be desipied to suit conditions in
Indonesia and should take into consideration earthquake and wind factors.
building designs must specify all column loadings due to machinery
loading vibration, etc.
Buildings and covered areas must be of adequate size to allow free,
safe access and movement within the building, with ease of building and
machinery maintenance in mind.
45. Ancillary Building
Provision for adequately size and built offices, toilet cloths, I.o.
stored pump house.l laboratory, weighbride and security &uard house must be
Made.
46. Workshop, Factory and Vehicle
These must be examined in detail to ensure they are adequately sized
and functional.
full equipment list must be provided to ensure workshops can provide
the necessary services.
47. Fencing
The type, height and area to be fenced should be examined and
specified.
48. Weighbridte
Type, capacity, platform sixe, etc. should be specified.
49. General Factory Layout
The general factory layout is important and careful consideration
should be give, to this.
Site access roads for moveeot of vehicles, loading/unloading,
removal of rubbish, etc. must be considered.
Layout of buildings should take into consideration, noise
administration, etc.
The whole works should be well laid out and planned to ensure
functionality and good working environment.
50.       Prepare and produce all the detailed engineering drawings,
specifications and schedules necessary for the construction and satisfactory
operation and maintenance of each standard factory and all supporting



- 103 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 1
Page 11
ancillary works and buildings in accurdance with national regulations and the
best accepted engineering practice.
51.       The engineering drawings specification and schedules required for
each standard factory and ancillary works and buildings should include the
following:
(a) General arrangement drawings including factory site layout plan,
process and service machinery layout plans.
(b) Building drawing with plan and elevation views and all design
details such as holding down requirements, roof ventilation,
overhead hoist runways, overhead maintenance crane, rod and side
cladding including translucent sheeting, etc. The drawings should
show all necessary static and dynamic column loads resulting from
the operation of the process and power plant housed within the main
factory building so that the effect of these can be incorporated
into the foundation design. Earthquake a A wind load factors will
have to be taken into account according to the location of each
standard factory but the effect of these on design will be included
in the specification of civil works for each factory location which
will be the subject of separate terms of reference.
Cc) All flow diagrams including process and fluids.
,d) Detailed electrical distribution drawings showing power and lighting
requirements, main electrical switchboard, motor and process control
panel drawings, wiring diagrams and schedule of electrical cabling,
including cable runs and sizes.
(e)  Air duct drawings showing fans, blowers and locks, etc.
(f) Detailed process and service subassembly drawings and detailed
schedules of all ancilliary equipment.   (MCtors, gearboxes,
starters, sw:wtches, light fitting, control gear, etc.). For all
these items trebles of selections must be provided in accordance
with good engineering practice and standards.
52.       The necessary spare parts and consumable materials schedules for
each item of process and service machinery and equipment to ensure continuity
of factory process for at least the first two years operation, after formal
acceptance of the whole factory works in accordance with contract
coaditions. An operational inventory system for spare parts should be laid
down, to ensure efficient holding and quick replacement of spare parts.
The necessary staff schedules showing numbers, and minimum
qualifications and experience for the satisfactory operation of the whole
factory works.



- 104 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 1
Page 12
D.   Composition of the Team of Consultants
53.       It is estimated that the preparation and production of all the
necessary tender documentation, engineering drawings: schedules and staffing
requirements for the first standard factory may take up to seven months.
The composition of the team of Consultants and the professional
inputs required to undertake the task may be expected to be approximauely as
follows:
man-months
Processing Engineer/Coordinator                                  7
Mechanical Engineer                                              6
Structural Engineer                                              2
Electrical Engineer                                              2
Draughtsmen                                                      14
Support Services                                                 8
Total                                39
54.       The consulting firms invited to bid for the above work may propose
altermatives to these Terms of Reference, to the suggested composition of the
tea of consultantst and estimated time scale, together with justifications
which will be considered by the Client.
E.   Reports
55.       The following reports, to be written in English, shall be submitted
in accordance with the schedule shown below:
Submission of reports
from start of work
(a)  Preliminary reports containing                         2nd month
findings, alteenative proposals
and basic design: general layout
capacities and machinery/equipment
selection.
(b)  Draft report:  Proposals plus                          5th month
drawings plus specifications
(preliminary/sketches)
(c)  Final Report                                           7th month
56.       The first two reports shall be submitted in 10 copies each and the
final report in 25 copies.



- 105 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of R;ference for the Standardization of Rubber Factories
A.   Background
1.        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) and intexrnational Bank tar
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), have and are jointly financing Nucleus
Estate and Smallholder Development Projects (YES) aside from wholly funded PIR
Projects by 001. GOI and IBRD intend to jointly finance a Tree Crop
Processing Project for the construction/expansion of rubber processing
facilities which the consulting firm shall take into account in undertaking
the scope of works in the Terms of Reference.
2.        At present each new construction or expansion of rubber factories
fcr the various Nucleus Estate and Smaillholder Develo,ient (YES and PIR)
Projects are designed on a location/project basis and even though recently
moves towards standardization have been made, different specifications and
configurations still result. Even a Government-owned estate enterprise (PTP)
which has several factories of the same size has not standardized its
designs. Each construction and/or expansion usually contains only general
specifications of machinery and equipment, with minimum drawings for factory
layout and supporting facilities. Non standardization results in a mixed
inventory of similar parts and noninterchangeability of spare parts, resulting
in inefficiency and additional cost. Consultants for each construction and/or
expansion have to be hired both for the preparation of new tender
specifications and for supervision.
3.        Standardization has the advantage of simplifying preparation before
construction. Studies such as site location considering relevant factors,
including soil investigation, design and specification of civil works would
still be done individually under separate terms of reference. All other
preparation before construction and/or expansion will not be repeated so that
it would save time, money and effort. Likewise during construction,
supervision would be simplified and will result in more efficient monitoring
of costs both estimated and actual, also during the subsequent process
operation.
4.        During process, operation training of factory personnel will be
simplified and interchangeability of staff from one factory to another whether
in the same PT or another would be facilitated. Variety of spare parts
carried would be reduced, hence disruption of operations due to lack of spare
parts should less frequent. Carrying cost of spares would be reduced.
Inventory control would be simplified and even central inventory of spare
parts either by a PTP or a group of PTPs or the total PTP system could be
achieved with eventual standard maintenance workshops for repairs and
reconditioning.



- 106 -
ANNE( S
TOR 2
Page 2
B.   Objectives
5.        The main objectives which the standardization of factories and
related facilities is intended to achieve should include the followings
(a) The selection of appropriate design capacity factories, easy to
operate and manage and capable of producing good quality products at
high efficiency, low operating costs and cost effective investment.
(b) The selection of prucessing equipment and layout, building design on
the grounds of simplicity of construction, operation and
maintenance.
(c) Care should be taken in design and choice of equipment to ensure
continuity of processing facilities by duplication of essential
items of equipment without incurring excessive capital expenditure.
(d) An appropriate economic balance between capital investment and
operating costs.
(e) The preparation and production of standard tender documents,
specifications, engineering drawings and schedules. Special
consideration should be given to the preparation of standard
contract documents and conditions.
6,        In order to ensure that standardized designs achieve their objective
of maximizing benefits it will be necessary to specify as closely as possible
all factory machinery and equipment, buildings and ancillary works.
C.   Scope of Work
7.        In undertaking this study, the consulting firm shall bear in mind
the rubber factories which will be constructed/expanded under the Tree Crop
Processing Project.  The consulting fira will:
8.        Review present outline designs, technical specifications, capacities
and capital cost, operating procedures including staffing, performance and
costs, raw materials inputs, marketable products and product qualities,
storage and transport requirements for rubber factories operating in Indonesia
and other main producing coun;ries.
9.        Indicate main points of similarity or difference between the
Indonesian situation and other tropical regions and the technical, economic
and sociological justifications for any differences highlighted.
10.       Within the scope of standardization, select the most appropriate
technology, bearing in mind the various Indonesian situations and the possible
effects these will have on the forms and quantities in vhich the raw materials
will become avaii.able, and on the factory design and capacity requirements.
11.       Indicate where such improvements could be beneficiary applied to
existing processing factories within Indtnesia.



- 107 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 2
Page 3
12.       Establish the desirable minimum number of standardized factory sizes
for rubber processing in Indonesia. These features will include the
following:
(a)  The required range in factory capacities, the capacity range in main
process, service machinery and equipment available from suppliers;
(b)  The maximum and minimum factory capacities considered desirable on
grounds of economic, power generation, trans ort requirements and
management control;
(c)  The desirability of avoiding where practical the use of single
process lines and single i;ems essential service machinery and
equipment in the event of breakdowns.
13.       Consider the technical and economic advantages of alternatives
process operations and machinery currently in use within rubber factories,
select the appropriate operation and design and indicate the expected
technical and economic benefits.
14. Alternatives for latex lines should include the following:
(a) Reception coagulation
-    Design of bulking tank and coagulation through according to a
step by step investment with 25 to 301 initial coagulation
capacity allowing further extension.
-    Efficient filtration of latex.
-    Efficient blending of latex
-    Allowance for chemical addition
-    Design of efficient and simple acidification system.
(b) Processing of latex coagulum
-    Choice of type and number of machineries bearing in mind;
quality of finished product, easy drying energy consumption,
maintenance costs, ability of processing any type of coagulum,
and investent cost.
-    Choice of layout that will maximize floor space utilization,
flexibility in processing latex and field coagulums, further
- extensions.
(c) Final Size Reduction
-    Choice of type of machinery for efficient size reductioc, ease
of operation, good preparation for drying, low operating and
maintenance costs.



- 108 -
ANE  5
TOR 2
Page 4
15. Alternatives for field coagulum lines should include the followings
(a) Capacity
-    1001 of factory capacity will be considered for field coagulums
as it is difficult to assess what will be the proportion of
latex.
(b) Reception of field coagulum
-    Design of reception platform or tanks to allow good condition
storage, easy and efficient blending, easy and economic
handling, bearing in mind the wide range of raw materials the
absolute necessity of adequate blending to ensure consistency
of finished product.
Ic) Preliminary size reduction and preclearin;
-    A preliminary size reduction operation is most likely to be
needed.
-    Cleaning is the most important factor as grading of rubber
depends on dirt content and small holders raw materials can be
very contaminated.
(d)  Size reductions blending and cleanig
-    The most suitable methods for blending and cleaning will be
investigated in order to maximize the quality of finished
product. Quality, processing costs, maintenance, efficiency
will be the leading parameters.
(e) Final size reduction
-    Final size reduction will be common with latex line.
16. Alternatives for drying and baling should include the following:
(a)  Drying
-    Drying will be common for latex and field coagulum.  This means
that flexibility will be the major parameter. Fuel and
electrical coqsumptions are important factors in processing
costs and specification for dryer will include performances.
(b) Baling
-    Pressure, time, maintenance cost will be considered.



- 109 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 2
Page 5
17. Alternatives for buildings will include the followings
(a) Factorr buildint
-    Layout, size will be adequate to allow flexibility in further
extensions (latex or field coagulums) bearing in mind
investment costs (size, design) ease of operation, ease of
maintenance and structural constraints (wind, maintenance
overhead cranes, etc.).
(b)  General factory site layout
-    Ease of communications, power and water dispatch, investment
and maintenance costs will be kept in mind in the general
layout.
Sc) Ancillary bailding
-    Layout, sizes will be adequate to allow efficient operation and
costs savings. Safety regulations or constraints will be taken
into account.
18. Ancillary Equipment
(a) Power SuDply
-    Number, size of generators will be in accordance with needs and
good engineering practices.
(b) Water Supply
-    A standard water treatment plant will be designed in accordance
with industrial and domestic needs. Qualities and quantities
of water for each use will be specified. Water treatment will
include river intake, treatment, storage and dispatch.
Investment and running costs will be the leading parameters.
(c) Electricity
-    A need for heavy standardization of all electrical components
is imperative in order to ensure easy spare parts inventory and
adequate maintenance.
(d) Workshop and Laboratory Equipment
-    Full equipment list will be provided for efficient operation.
(e) Weighbride
-    Tire, capacity will be specified, bearing in mind possible
container loading.



- 110 -.
ANNEX S
TOR 2
Page 6
19.       Prepare and produce all the detailed, engineering drawings,
specifications and schedules necessary for the constructions and satisfactory
operation and maintenance of each standard processing factory and all
supporting ancillary works and buildings in accordance with national
regulations and the best accepted engineering practice.
(a) Ancillary works and buildings should include the following:
(i)  raw materials storage;
(ii)  finished product storage;
(iii)  process control laboratory;
(iv) factory workshop spare part sttore and carpenters
workshop/store;
(v)  power generation room;
(vi)  toilet block;
(vii)  water supply, pumphouse, treatment and storage
(viii) factory complex, electrical distribution and lighting system;
(ii)  vehicle maintenance workshop/store;
Is) fire fighting equipment;
(ix)  road weighbridge/sheds
(s) fire fighting equipment;
(xi)  road weighbridge/shed;
(xii)  effluent treatment and disposal facilities; and
(xii)  office.
(b) The engineering drawings specifications and schedules required for
each standard factory and ancillary works and buildings should
include the following;
(i)  General arrangement drawings including factory site layout
plan, process and service machinery layout plans;
(ii)  Building drawings with plan and elevation views and all design
details such as holding down requirements, roof ventilation,
overhead hoist runways, overhead hoist ruwways, overhead
maintenance crane, rod and side cladding including translucent
sheeting, etc. The drawings should show all necessary static



ANNEX 5
TOR 2
Page I
and dynamic column loads resulting from the operation of the
process and power plant housed within the main factory
building so that the effect o4 these can be incorporated into
the foundation design. Earthquake and wind load factors will
have to be taken into account according to the location of
each standard factory but the effect of these on design will
be included in the specification of civil works for each
factory location which will be the subject of separate terms
of reference.
(iii) All flow diagrams including process and fluids.
(iv) Detailed electrical distribution drawings showing power and
lighting requirements, main electrical switchboard, motor and
process control panel drawings, wiring diagrams and schedule
of electrical cabling, including cable runs and sizes.
(v) Detailed process and service subassembly drawings and detailed
schedules of all ancillary equipment. (Motors, gearboxes,
starters, switches, light fitting, control gear, etc.). For
all these items tables of selection must be provided in
accordance with good engineering practice and standards.
20.       The necessary spare parts and consumable materials schedules for
each item of process and service machinery and equipment to ensure continuity
of factory ptocess for at least the first two years operation, after formal
acceptance of the whole factory works in accordance with contract
conditions.  An operational inventory system for spare parts should be laid
down, to ensure efficient holding and quick replacement of spare parts.
21.       The necessary staff schedules showing numbers, and minimum
qualifications and experience for the satisfactory operation of the whole
factory works.
D. Composition of the Teom of Consultants
22.       It is estimated that the preparation and production of all the
necessary tender documentation, engiaeering drawings, schedules and staffing
requirements for the first standard factory may take up to five months.
Is
23.       The composition of the team of Consultants and the professional
inputs required to undertake the task may be expected to be approximately as
followss



- 112 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 2
Page 8
man-months
Processing engineer/coordinator                         4
Mechanical engineer                                     1
Structural engineer                                     1
Electrical engineer                                     1
Draughtsmen                                             4
Support services                                        4
Total                                  15
24.       The consulting firms invited to bid for the above work may propose
alternatives to these Terms of Reference, to the suggested composition of the
team of consultants and the estimated time scale, together with justifications
which will be considered by the Client.
S.   Reports
25.       The following reports, to be written in English, shall be submitted
in accordance with the schedule shown below:
Submission of reports
from start of work
(a)  Preliminary reports containing                      2nd month
findings, alternative proposals
and basic design: general layout
capacities and machinery/equipment
selection
(b)  Draft report:  Proposals plus                       3.5 month
drawings plus specifications
preliminary/sketches)
(c)  Final Report                                        5th month
26.       The first two reports shall be submitted in 10 copies and the final
report in 25 copies.



- 113 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for EngineerinR Consultancy of Factory Facilities
Includins Supervision of Construction and Commissioning
Background
1.        Following the implementation of a number of rubber and oil palm
nucleus estate and smallholder projects within Indonesia, suitable processing
facilities are required to process the rubber and oil palm fresh fruit bunches
(FFB) output projected over the next six years and beyond.
2.        In view of the size of the planting program and the large number of
new or expanded factories expected to be required, there is a need to simplify
tender procedures, reduce construction programs and costs, and standardize on
factory designs and operations.
3.        Standard tender documents and engineering drawings have been
prepared under separate Terms of Reference, incorporating:
(a) Standard factory capacities;
(b) Standard building designs and specifications;
(c) Standard machinery layout plan;
(d) Standard electrical layout, switchboards, starter panels and wiring
in accordance with relevant standards;
(e) Standard pipeline layout, size and material for all services in
accordance with relevant standard;
(f) Standard effluent treatment plants and environmental control
equipment.
4.        The purpose of these Terms of Reference covering th  engineering
consultancy of individual factories is to determine the required processing
capacity based on crop projections, to provide the necessary remaining site
specific tender documentation on site selection, soil properties and civil
works designs and specifications, and to supervise the execution of the
construction contracts through commnissioning of the whole factory works. The
work to be undertaken by the engineering consultants would includes
Preliminary Desiga Stage
5.        Establish lines of communication, investigate and review all data
and reports on the project which will be made available to the Consultant by
the Client.



- 114 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 3
Page 2
6.        In particular the review must include the following:
(a) The actual areas, dates and conditions of project plantings as
checked in the field, the different forms and qualities of the raw
materials being produced and the crop projections for each.
(b) The actual areas, dates, conditions and crop projections of any non-
project plantings as checked in the field situated within possible
economic transport distance of the proposed project site.
(c)  The actual or projected availability of non-project processing
capacity situated within possible economic transport distance of the
proposed project site and its suitability for pro^essing part or all
of the project crop.
Id) The sociological background of the labor to be used on the project
site and the effects this may have on raw material inputs, factory
capacity, designs and standardization.
(e) The resulting process facilities required, listing capacities, raw
material inputs, product quasities and quantities, suitability as a
standard factory design unit, the required phasing of construction
and the estimated completion time.
(f) Make any normal topographical survey and subsoil investigations
which may be required to supplement any information made available
to the Consultant and investigate the suitability of the various
sites proposed for the various building works taking into account
possible flooding, water availability (quantity and quality), soil
properties, liquid/solid effluent disposal and the transportation of
raw material to the proposed factory site and transportation of
finished products to the markets including port of shipment.
(g) Advise the Client on any additional geotechnical investigations
which may be necesnary, arrange for such investigations when
adthorized by the Client, certify and payments to be made by the
Client and advise the Client or. the results.
7.        Prepare a report in English (6 copies) advising the Client of the
findings of the above review within three months from commencement of work.
The report must include recommendations as to the size of the factory and
wbich site should be used for the construction of the factory works and should
be supported by such documents including a project location map showing
relevant planted area*, proposed factory site, road, river, or sea transport
facilities, main topographical features, etc., cost estimates and proposed
construction program as may be reasonably necessary to enable the client to
consider the Consultant's proposals for ezecuting the works and to take a
decision to proceed. Work on the main design stage would not start until the
Consultant has received a formal request to proceed.



- 115*-
ANNEX 5
MR' 3
Page 3
Main Design Stase
8.        The detailed design, specifications, engineering drawings and
supporting schedules for the rubber/palm oil factory, ancillary works and
buildings but excluding soil investigations, civil works and engineering
designs which have already been prepared as accepted standards for rubber and
palm oil factories by the Client. The Consultant would, therefore, make full
use of this standard design and documentation in his preparation of the tender
documents necessary for the execution of the construction contracts,
9.        The Consultant would concentrate on preparing and producing all
necessary supporting civil engineering drawings, specifications and schedules
peculiar to the specific site approved by the Client for the construction of
the works. These drawings and specifications, etc., must include all
necessary earthworks, main water supply and treatment facilities surface water
and foul water drainage, roadworks, hard surfacings, main factory and
ncillary works building foundations and floor des.gns as well as the fwamda-
tion designs for all the factory process, service machinery and equipment.
Due recognition of earthquake factors sad design requirements must be made in
fully accordance with Indonesia regulations.
10.       Prepare and produce all the necessary tender documents covering the
civil, mechanical gad electrical works required for the construction contracts
including the following:
(a) general conditions of contracts;
(b) particular conditions of contract, including supply of all records
and drawings;
(c) technical specifications;
(d) form of tender;
(e) tender bond;
(f) performance bond;
(g) schedule of contract values and schedule of rates;
(h) engineering drawings and supporting schedules;
(i) process and efficiency specifications (product quality, product
losses and throughput).



- ii1 -
ANNEX S
TOR 3
Page 4
11.       The standard specifications produced by the study of standardization
of design shall be incorporated into the tender documents.
12.       Advise the Client of the suitability of contracting firms for under-
taking the construction of the proposed works and advise on any appropriate
conditions of contract necessary for incorporation into the contract.
Consteuction Stage
13.       Advise the Client regarding the preparation of any formal contract
documents.
14.       Advise the Client on the necessity or otherwise for the employment
of specialist cnsultants.
15.       Examine the contractor's proposals and programs for the execution of
the works.
16*       Inspect and test during manufacture and installation all items
supplied for incorporation in the work, and arrange witness acceptance tests
includi'g the overall commissioning of the machinery and equipment, in
accordance with pars. 10.
17.       Advise the Client on the appointment of any site staff necessary for
technical supervision on site.
18.       Make such visits to site to are necessary for the Consultant to
satisfy himself that the works are properly executed according to contract and
otherwise in accordance with good engineering practice, all critical areas of
construction must be checked by the Consultant.
19.       Give all necessary written instructions to contractors provided that
the Consultant shall not, without prior approval of the Client, give any
instructions which would substantially increase the cost of the works.
20.       Issue certificates for payment to the contractor in accordance with
the relevant conditions of contract.
21.       Perform any services which the Consultant may be required to carry
out under the contract for the construction of the works.
22.       Deliver to the Client on completion of the works in accordance with
particular conditions of contract:
(a) Records of relevant site, machinery, buildings, electrical fluid air
and other ancillary equipment.
(b)  A full set of transparent drawings for:
(1) Topographical survey;
(2) Site plan inclusive of roads, drainage, etc.;



- 11; -
AUNEX 5
TOR 3
Page 5
(3) Civil works foundations;
(4) Building structures;
'5)  Detailed machinery drawings and in&:asive of all dimensions,
tolerances fits and construction specifications;
(6)  Electrical layout, switchboard, starter panels, wiring runs and
diagrams;
(7) Fluids layout, pipe runs;
(8) Spare parts manuals for all equipment with references;
(9) Maintenance instruction manuals for all equipment;
(10) Operating manuals for all equipment.
23.       Advise on any dispute or difference arising between the Client and
the contractor subject to any arbitration or litigation clauses included in te
contracts.
24.       Present to the Client monthly written reports in English (6 copies)
covering the physical and financial progress of the works, not later than the
10th day of the month.
25.       If, in the opinion of the Consultant, the nature of the work
requires fulltime or part time supervision on site, with the agreement of the
Client, provide such supervision.
26.       Prepare proposals for the safe and efficient operation of the works
and for the training of operation and maintenace staff in accordance with
standard training policy for the project.
General
27.       The services supplied by the Consultant would include the provisions
of all technical advice and skills which are normally required for the class
of work which the Consultants services have been engaged.
28.       The Consultant should exercise all reasonable skill, care and
diligence in the discharge of the services agreed to be performed by the
Consultant and if, during the performance of his services the Cons-ltant has
to exercise a discretion between the Client and the contractor, the Consultant
would exercise his discretion fairly.



- 118 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 3
Page 6
Composition of the Team of Consultants
29.       The composition of the team of Consultants and the professional
inputs required to undertake the preliminary, main design and the construction
stage of a complete factory are expected to be approximately as follows:
For palm oil factory     For rubber factory
(man-onths)              man-months
ProJect coordinator/
process engineer                        20                       6
Tres crop agriculturalist                  1                        1
Civil engineer                             6                       4
Clerk of works                            10                       10
Mechanical engineer                        6                        1
Electrical engineer                        3                        1
Draftsman                                  7                        2
Support services                          10                       3
Total                                63                      28
30.       The consulting firms invited to bid for the above work may propose
alternatives to these Terms of Reference and to the suggested composition of
the team of consultants and estimated time scale, together with justifications
which will be considered by the Client.



- 11. -
ANNEX 5
TOR 3
Attachment
INDONESIA                         Page i
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultancy
for Urgent Palm Oil Factories
Background
1.        Following the implementation of a number of oil palm nucleus estate
and. sallholder projects within Indonesia, suitable processing facilities are
now required to be constructed to process oil palm fresh fruit bunches (FFB).
2.        In view of the size of the program and the large number of new
factories urgently required, there is a: need to facilitate supply procedures,
optimize construction programs and costs, and standardize factory designs and
operations taking into account the pecularities of the relevant conditions.
Pending completion of standardization, a pre-standard design has been agreed.
3.        For the urgent pre-standardized factories, tender documents have
been separately prepared incorporating:
(a) Factory capacities.
(b) Building specifications.
(c) Machinery layout plan and specifications.
(d) Electrical specification.
(e)  Effluent treatment plants and environmental control.
(f) Legal and financial provisions.
4.        The purpose of these Terms of References covering the engineering
consultancy for individual factories is to supervise the execution of
contracts, from site preparation through to succes'ful commissioning of the
whole factory works. The work to be undertaken by the consultants is:
Construction
51        Advise the Client regarding the preparation of any formal contract
documents.
6.        Advise the Client on the necessity for employment of specialist
consultants, as and when the need arises, for any part or parts of the
construction contracts.
7.        Examine the contractors' proposals and programs for the execution of
the construction contrazt, and, where appropriate give advice to the Client
with recommendations.
S.        Make visits to the construction site, and provide sufficient full-
time site supervision as and when required to examine, monitor and control
works in progress to ensure:



- 120 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 3
Attachment
Page 2
(a) Work is progressing in accordance with schedule;
(b) Work is properly and expertly executed, and in accordance with
contract documents, drawings specifications and good
engineering/building practice.
(cc  All critical areas of construction are examined and certified,
before continuation of construction work is permitted.
9.        Give all necessary written instructions to contractors, provided the
consultant shall not, without prior approval of the Client, give any
instructions which would substantially increase the cost of the works.
10.       Advise the Client on the issuance of certificates of payment to the
contractor in accordance with the terms of contract and uork completed.
11.       Provide full-time supervision by an experienced, qualified engineer
throughout machinery installation and successful commissioning of the factory.
12.       Provide full-time monitoring of contract works by an experienced
site superintendent/clerk of works.
13.       Provide full-time monitoring of electrical installation by a
qualified tlectrical Engineerl fcr the period of electrical installation and
commissioning.
14.       Participate, together with the Client's representatives, in the
acceptance tests, including the individual and overall commissioning of
machinery and equipment, and advise progress to Client.
15.       Perform any service or services which may be required under the
term or fullfillment of the construction contract.
16.       Deliver to the Client on completion of the works in accordance with
particular conditions of contract, all relevant records pertaining to site,
machinery, buildings, electrical and oher ancillary equipment.
17.       Advise on any dispute or difference arising between the Client and
the Contractor, subject to any arbitration or litigation clauses included in
the contracts.
18.       Present to the Client monthly written reports in English (6 copies),
covering the physical and financial progress of the works, not later than the
10th day of each month.
19.       If, in the opinion of the Consultant, the nature of the work
requires other full-time or part-time supervision on site, with the agreement
of the Client, provide such supervision.
20.       Prepare proposals for the safe and efficient operation of the
factory.



-121 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 3
Attachment
general                                                               Page 3
21.       The services supplied by the Consultant will include the provisions
of all technical advice and skills which are normally required for the class
of work which the Consultants services have been engaged.
22.       The Consultant shall exercise all reasonable skill, care and
4iligenC.e in the discharge of the services agreed to be performed by the
Consultant and will exercise his discretion fairly at all time.
Combosition of the Team of Consultants
23.       The composition of the team of Consultants and the professional
inputs required to undertake the construction stage of a complete factory are
expected to be approximately as follows:
For ursent palm oil factory
(ma-mouths)
Nechanical/Process Engineer/Coordinator                             9
Civil Engineer                                                      1
Site Superintendent/clerk of works                                 18
Electrical Engineer                                                 2
Support Services                                                    3
Total                                                        33
24.       The consulting firms invited to bid for the above work may propose
alternatives to these Terms of Reference and to the suggested composition of
the team of consultants and estimated time scale, together with justifications
which will be considered by the Client.



- 122 -
ANNE 5
TOR 4I
rage 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultant Processins Engineers
Attached to PT? Headquarters
1.        In order to assist the PTPs on engineering matters relating to
existing and proposed new processing facilities, it is proposed to attach
internationally qualified processing engineers (one for palm oil and/or one
for rubber) to each project PTP for the duration of project implementation.
2.        Based at the PTP Headquarters and directly reporting to the PTP
First birectors, their main duties would bes
(a) Existing processing facilities:
(i) To reviewt
a. the type, layout, specifications an physical conditions of
process and service machinery and equipment, main and
ancillary buildings and of present factory works;
b. the present performnes of process and service machinery
and equipmet and ancillary factory works;
c. the position with regard to the provision and inventory
control of spare parts and consumables;
d. the process performance of the factory maehinery and
equipment particularly in relation to raw material and
product qualities, yields and factory extraction
efficiencies;
e. the factory production costs, including operating and
maintenance and factory overheads;
f. the factory effluent control facilities and general
conformity to existing or likely future statutory
regulations.
(ii) To report and make recommendations on the followings
a. the review and assessment made under part. 2 above;
b. the measures required to remedy any possible shortcomingsl
c. the program required to implement such measures;
d. the estimated costs and savings for such a program.



- 123 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 4
Page 2
(b) New construction and expansion of processing facilities:
(i) To follow the construction, supervision and commissioning
of new factories in liaison with the engineering
consultants engaged for this purpose by the PTP;
(ii) To monitor performance of process, service machinery,
equipment, and ancillary factory works
(iii) To implement necessary provision and efficient inventory
control of spare parts and consumables;
(iv) To introduce and implement cost control systems;
(v) To maintain efficient operation of the factory.
3.        In liaison vitn the Training Consultant in Tim 9husus, identify the
training needs, organize training programs and coordinate the training of
engioering staff for existing processing facilities and proposed now
factories. To prepare monitoring systems to allow regular checks to be made
on the achievements reali3ed above and report on these to the PTP.
4.        In liaison with the Monitoring and Analysis Division in Tim Khusus,
set up monitoring and evaluation systems for all factory operations; in
particular prepare operating manuals establishing factory performance criteria
and operating procedures to assist factory managemnt in improving the general
levels of operating efficiencies, reducing costs, improving product qualities
and yields and achieving savings and increased revenues.
5.        The consultants would be employed from the start of construction
until one year after comaissioning for a new construction and 1/2 year after
comnissioning for an expansions in the case of palm oil factories, the
consultants would be needetd for three years for a new construction and 1-1/2
years for an expansion; in the case of rubbor factories, two years for a new
coastruetion and 1-1/2 years for an expansion.



- 124 -
ANNEX 5
TOR  S
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Site Trainins Engineer
1.        His main duties would bet
(a) To provide adequate practical on site training to any category of
personnel as identified by: (i) PTP management; Cii) long-term
processing consultants attached to the PTPs headquarters; (iii) Tim
Khusus training consultant.
(b) To assist the PTP HQ consultant in determining, on site needs for
related trainiag, additional staff and equipment or shortcomings of
existing equipment, by regular dialogue/feedback.
Sc) To provide advice, Information, documentation for possible
improvement of operations according to experience and needs.
(d) To prepare manuals/handbooks for use by trainees on their return to
the work place.
Se) To prepare, write, supply and explain necessary methods of operation
for factory management and staff
(f) To help set up monitoring systems for all parts of factory
operations and explain necessity and usefulness of such systems.
!elrience and Qualifications
(a) 15 years of proven operational experience and ability in the
specific discipline.
(b) Ability to transfer practical knowledge and supply necessary
reasoning for operation.
(c) Be prepared to work continually at various sites of implementation.
(d)  Have an outgoing personality and be able to comlunicate with all
levels of management and staff.



- 125 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Tim Rhusus Training Consultant
1.        His main duties would be:
(a) To organize the training program for each specific factory and to
ensure all resources, human and physical, are available when
required and in the most cost effective manner. This will be done
in conjunction withs (i) PTP management; (ii) long-term processing
consultants attached to PTP's Headquarters and; (iii) Tim Rhusus
processing consultants.
(b) To recruit on site training engineers for the various disciplines
(oil pals processing, rubber processing, maintenance, effluent
control, etc.).
(c) To organize and schedule practical on-site training programs with
the different PTPs.
(d) To appraise results of practical on-site training with: (i) (ii);
and (iii).
(e) To discuss, identify and plan future needs for training with: (i);
(ii); m (iii).
(f) To prepare budget, recruit necessary resource people and facilitate
the reimbursemnt to the PTPs of their training costs.
EuPerience and Qualifications
(a) 10 years of experience in the field of palm oil/rubber processing
training, organization and managemet in the plantation industry.
(b) Ability to coordinate and control training needs and results with
professionals training coasultant and on site personnel.



- 126 -
AMW El 5
TOR 7
Page I
INDOUSIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Tim Khusus Monitorin8 and Evaluation Consultant
Background
1.        The Monitoring and Analysis Division in Tim Khusus is a staff group
which monitors physical and financial progress and evaluates the impact of
projects supported by external financing. The geaod of the Division reports
directly to the Chairman of Tim Khusus and coordinates with other divisions.
It is the conduit through which data and information oan project performace is
analysed and reported to the relevant parties. At present, the staff of the
Division is organized into throe sectionst (i) progress reporting; (ii) data
analysis; and (iii) impact analysis. The Division has ben responsible for
analysis and reporting for a number of projects assiste4 by the ank,
including the preparation of project cowpletion reports.
2.        Over the years, the staff of the Division have gained considerable
experience in progress reporting and have acquire4 significant skills in the
application of microcompter techniques in general and in the use of word
processing and spreadsheet packages in particular. Under the Tree Crop
Processing Project, the Division will have its responsibilities extended to
tracking progress in the construction of rubber and pals oil factories. For
this purpose, the staff will be streagthend and, the processing equipmt
incresed.  A consultant adviser will be provided under the project  o enhance
existing skills and help train the staff in modern monitoring and evaluation
techniques.
Duties and Scope of Work
3.        The consultant advisor is expected to assist the Read of the
Monitoring and Analysis Division in Tim Xhusus, and to train his staff in the
following main are"s
(a) The application of microcomputer-based scheduling, costing and
tracking techniques on the basis of the software package that the
Division has alredy identified. In this area of work, the
consultant will help to implewwt a system of tracking the progress
of earned values against a planned budget schedule of each factory
to be constructed or expanded under the project;
(b)  The introduction of a data-base manage_mt system to orgnise and
update information on progress of the current project as well as
that relating to projects which the Division is onitoring. The
system should be based on the existing equipmet and on those
microcomputers that the Division will purchase under the Tree Crop
Processing Project.



- 127 -
ANNEX 5
TOR7
Page 2
(c) The training of the Monitoring and Analysis Division staff in
project related economic analysis in general and in the re-
estimation of internal rates of return for on-going projects prior
to completion. The consultant is expected to provide a major
contribution to the economic analysis of projent impact.
(d)  The provision of assistance to the PTPs in establishing an
appropriate reporting format including the efficiency indicators
(see para. 5.8).
(e)  The provision of an input to the preparation of quarterly and annual
reports, as needed.
Cf) The performance of such monitoring and evaluation tasks as
determined by the Head of the Monitoring and Analysis Division in
Tin Ehusus.
4.        Experience and Qualifications
(a) Ten yars of provne operation experience in the management aspects
of developmnt projects;
(b) Five years of experience in microco m_ter applications in project
maInageent in general and in scheduling and tracking in particular;
(c) Haviag the necessary skills in economic analysis of project benefits
ad estimation of internal rates of return$
(d) Ability to comunicate with effectively project implemntation
personnel at all lewj10s
(e) Having the basic willingness to assess modern techniques in
monitoring and evaluation in the light of possible applications to
the work of the Monitoring and Analysis Division staff; and
(f) Having proven operience in technical training of middle-level and
senior staff.



- 128 -
TOR 8
Pa-ge-l
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PIOCESSIRG PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Rubber Processing Adviser
Background
1.        The Covernment of Indonesia (GOI) and the  International Dank for
Reconstruction and Development (I8D) are jointly financing several Nucleus
Estate and Smaliholder Projects (NES Projects) in addition to COI's direct
undertaking of several development projects (PIt Projects). Under the Tree
Crop Processing Project a number of rubber factories will be built to process
the crop obtained from the above schemes. In order to assist the Director
General of Estates (Tim Khusue) in project preparation, implementation and
efficient operation/supervision, a provision has now been made for recruiting
a Rubber Processing Adviser. Qualifications, exporiento and job responsibil-
ities of the rubber processing adviser would be as follows.
E3yerience and Qualifications
2.   (a)  Must possess a minium degree or Registered Professional
qualification in Process/Chemical/Nechanical Sngineringo.
(b)  Should have at least ten (10) years experience in rubher processing
of various tpes of rubber factory including designini oi factory
layout, preparation of technical specification and tender documents,
supervision of construction and operations.
(c) Should have had experience in cost and quality control and be fully
conversant with modern techniques for monitoring factory
performance.
Responsibilities
3.        Among others, the Consultant should:
(a) Assist in the review of feasibility studies and preparation of
reports, studies atd review related to rubber processing.
(b) Assist in the planing and phasing of new rubber factories and
expasion in order to ensure processing capacity mets demand in the
most cost effective manzer.
(c) Assist and advise the consultants engaged for the rubber factory
standardization study.
(d) Assist in the design of rubber factory layout, including support
facilities, technical specifications, drawings, cost estimates and
tender documents.



- 129 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 8
(e) Assist and advise the engineering consultants attached to the PTP8
for construction and commissioning of new factories, and in the
supervision and monitoring of performance in existing factories.
(f) Assist and advise the training consultant attached to Tim IKhusus,
the PTP headquarters processing consultants, and the mobile on-site
training engineers in matters relating to training.
(g) Assist in the monitoring and evaluation exercise and ensure all
relevant factory production costs and efficiency factors are
recorded and analyzed to secure improved efficiency.
(h) Advise on rubber factory staffing and manning levels, and on
monitoring performance of staff and maintenance personnel.
(i) Coordinate with the rubber agronomists in the preparation of
reco_mendations on the policies and procedures for collection,
transport and processing of smallholders produce.
g3) Assist in the design of effluent treatment plants and in the
monitoring of efficiency to easure compliance with 001 standards for
discharge to waterways.
(I) Perform any other duties related to rubber processing or the
consultant's discipline.
Duration
4.        The contract would be for an initial period of two years, subject to
further renewal.



- 130 -
TOR 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference For Palm Oil Processing Adviser
Background
1.        Same as rubber but substitute Palm Oil Processing Adviser for Rubber
Processing Adviser.
Qualifications
2.   (a)  Must possess a BSc in Mechanical/Marine Engineering from a
recognised University, or equivalent.
(b)  Must posses a lst Class Machinery Department/Marine Departmet or
equivalent certificate of competency for the operation of steam
boilers and power plant.
Experience
3.   (a)  Should have a good grounding in engineering workshop practice and
preferably have spent at le"st two (2) years in an engineering
workshop.
(b) Should have at least 10 year experience in the palm oil processing
industry, with at least seven of those as Factory Manager or Senior
Engineer in charge.
(c) Should have at least 3 years experience in a consulting/contracting
engineers office, and be fully conversant with design, drawing,
specification and documentation for construction of palm oil
factories or other large engineering projects of a manufacturing
nature.
(d) Should have had experience in cost and quality control and be fully
conversant with modern techniques for monitoring factory
performance.
Responsibilities
4.        Among others, the consultant should:
(a) Assist in the review of feasibility studies and in the preparation
of reports, studies and reviews related to palm oil processing.



- 131 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 9
Yage 2
(b) Assist in the planning and phasing of new palm oil factories and
expansions in order to ensure processing capacity meets demand in
the most cost effective manner.
(c) Assist and advise the consultants engaged for the palm oil factory
standardization study.
(d) Assist in the preparation of palm oil factory layout, including
support facilities, technical specifications, drawings, cost
estimates and tender documents.
(e) Assist and advise the engineering consultants attached to the PTPs
for construction and commissioning of new factories, and in the
supervision and monitoring of performance in existing factories.
(f) Assist and advise the training consultant attached to Tin Rhusus,
the PTP headquarters processing consultants and the mobile on-site
training engineers in matters relating to training.
(g) Assist in the monitoring and evaluation exercise and ensure all
relevant factory production costs and efficiency factors are
recorded and analysed to secure improved efficiency.
(h) Advise on palm oil factory staffing and manning levels and on
monitoring performance of staff and maintenance personnel.
Xi) Coordinate with the oil palm agronomists in the preparation of
recommendations on the policies and procedures for collection,
transport and processing of smallholder produce.
(j) Assist in the design of effluent treatment plants and in the
monitoring of efficiency to ensure OOI standards for discharge to
waterways are met.
(k) Perform any other duties related to palm oil processing or the
conaultant's discipline.
Duration
5.        The contract would be for an initial period of two years, subject to
further reneval.



-132 -
ANNE 5
TOR 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Survey of Effluent Control in
Exirsti'ng -PTP Broaden to All Crop Factories
Background
14        The recently enacted GOI Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation
Vo. 29/1986, which became effective on June 5, 1987, has a retroactive
provision which requires an Environmental Evaluation Report for existing
projects which have a significant environmental impact. Both rubber and palm
oil factories would fall into this category because of the large BOD and
suspended solids pollution loads in factory effluents. Inspections have
indicated that very few rubber and palm oil factories have adequately designed
and effectively operating effluent treatment plants. It is now proposed that
the Directorate General of Estates would engage consultants to determine and
analyse options for effluent treatment in these facilities based on current
practices in Malaysia and identify least-cost approaches suitable for
Indonesia.
2.        Selection of the most appropriate technology at each factory will
depend on a number of factors, including processing factors, land avail-
ability, suitability of factory effluents for irrigation, simplicity of
operation and monitoring of the treatment process, as well as capital and
operating costs.
Objectives of the Study
3.        To date no assessment has been made by the Department of Agriculture
or any other Government or private organization of the economic and financial
impact of the new GOI Regulation No. 29/1986 on the tree crop processing
subsector. Since the current status of effluent treatment in existing PTP
factories is unknown, a basic survey and data collection involving actual site
visits will be required to collect the necessary information on which to make
an accurate and realistic assessment of future effluent treatment requirements
to meet Government standards for each factory. This survey should also
identify in-plnt processing improvements which will reduce oil losses and
effluent pollution loads and, thereby, minimixe the end-of-pipe treatment
costs. Particular attention will also be paid to possible reuse of factory
effluents for irrigation purposes and substitution of chemical fertilizers.
4.        A number of standard effluent treatment design options will be
evaluated and costed for various plant capacities prior to the field visits.
These standard models will be evaluated and compared with actual plant site
and estate conditions to determine the optimal method of effluent treatment
including reduced chemical fertilizer usage. In the first instance, these
estimates will be based on best available data, which can be refined as more
accurate data becomes available from other studies. This level of detail will
be necessary for the Department of Agriculture and PTPs to make informed
decisions regarding future investments for pollution abatement.



- 133 -
ANX S
TOR 10
scope
S.        All existing PTP processing facilities for rubber, oil palm and
other crops (about 200 only for rubber and oil palm) in Indonesia will be
surveyed by the consultants through field visits. Relevant data woul& be
collected relating to processing capacity, plant design and operatingSfactors
affgcting pollution loads, potential processing improvements, status of design
and operation of existing pollution control facilities, requirements for
upgrading or modifying these facilities, land availability and suitability for
locating effluent treatment plants, suitability and capacity of estate
plantations for effluent and sludge disposal, preliminary costing of optimal
effluent treatment and process improvements. A computerized data base would
be established to store this data in a standardized format for future
processing, manipulation and updating, as well as for checking future design
proposals by the PTPs for effluent treatment.
Timing of Study
6.        It is expected that the proposed study will take between 12-18
months and will involve visits to all PTP factories. Site visits are
necessary, as questionnaires would not provide the level of detail required
for an accurate assessment of future investments required to bring these
factories into compliance with 001 pollution control regulations. Another
advantage of site visits by consultants is that the data base can be generated
in a suitable format for a number of possible future uses including the needs
for institutional development in pollution monitoring and control at the
provincial government level, for an assessment of the impact of government
regulations in the tree crop processing subsector, and for possible future
investments in the subsector.
Estimated Manpower Requirements
7.        Overseas Consultants                   2 z 1.5 years
Local Consultants                      4 x 1.5 years



- 134 -
ANNE S
TOR 11
Page I
INDONESIA
TREE CtO PROCESSING PROJECT
institutional Developmet -Strenathening of Pollution Monitoring
Capabilities in North Sumatra and West Kalimantan
Introduction
1.       The Government of Indonesia (G0O) has allocated responsibilities
for enforcement of its pollution control regulations to the provincial
Governors, lowever, at the present time institutional arrangements are
inadequate to regularly monitor or control industrial or domestic waste
discharges to air, water, or onto the land.
2.        The COl recognizes the need for effective monitoring and eaforcement
of pollution control regulations in all sectors of the economy, and particu-
larly in the true crop processing subsoctor, where factory discharges can
cause severe water pollution. Tbus, one iwportant institutional component of
the Tree Crop Processing Project is to strengthen pollution monitoring in
North Sumatra and West Katimantan and to study options for alternative
arrangements for pollution control.
iseaekround
3.        Water pollution is the major concern in a number of provinces and
water shortages are being eaperienced in a number of large urban areas,
particularly in Java during the dry season. Water pollution control on a
routine basis is generally weak throughout Indonesia. Despite laws and legal
mechanisms, which are appropriate, attention is norvally focused on water
pollution only under crisis situations where unicipal water supplies are
seriously affected.
4.        At present pollution control in rural areas is entrusted to the
Supati. lwevser, the issue of waste discharge permits is legally in the hands
of the provj,cial Governor who has de\qgated it to either the Dinas Public
Works (PU) A or the Din"s Pengairan, whichever may ezist in the province.
5.        Before an effective pollution control strategy can be impleeonted it
will be necessary to routinely monitor the quatity ad quality of effluents
from polluters as well as the river water being affected by the discharges.
The institutions for water pollution mnoitoring in Indonesia are fragmeted
and skilled personvel do not exist at all lovels. There are three main groups



- 135 -
ANNX 5
TOR 1I
Page 2
at the provincial,level involved in monitoring of pollution: PU Kanwil,!/
Dinas Kesehatan - and PU Dinas). PU Kanwil covers the broadest range of
monitoring activities for pollution and has the legal authority to perform the
monitoring. However, most of the Kanwil offices are poorly equipped and do
not have the resources to undertake any monitoring activities unless they are
assisted by the Institute of Hydraulic Engineering-Environmental Division
(rHE) from Bandung. IHE is one of the institutes in the Center for Research
and Training (Puslitbang) under the Department of Public Works that has been
assisting several of the Kanwil offices at the provinces to perform monitoring
activities. IHE's most successful efforts have been on Java and in some of
the provinces in Sumatra.
6.        The Dinas Kesehatan has groups in only ten provinces for monitoring
water pollution and is specifically directed towards monitoring for health
purposes. PU Dinas is responsible for issuing industrial waste discharge
permits on behalf of the Governor. However the Dines issues permits as a
routine activity without determining the water pollution implications, nor
does it verify from monitoring data whether the industries are conforming to
the waste discharge permit.
A. Outline of Proposal for Strensthenins Pollution Monitoring Units
?,        Since tree crop processing is an increasing source of water pollution
in the Outer Islands it is proposed under this project to strengthen pollution
onitoring units in two provinces, North Sumatra and West Kalimentan, so that
they are able to systematically and effectively carry out their legally mandated
monitoring functions, not only for tree crops, but for the other industrial
facilities and major domestic waste discharges as well. Under this project
consultants would be required to assess the current status of monitoring by
existing government bodies, the procedures for issuing discharge permits, the
status of specific Governors' decrees relating to pollution monitoring in the
provinces, the availability and experience of laboratory technicians, and the
effectiveness of quality control over laboratory procedures, as well as the
collection, preservation, transport and storage of samples for analysis.
8.        In addition, they would identify the extent of pollution monitoring
required in North Sumatra and West Kalimantan and establish a sampling
frequency schedule which will balance the requireaments for a reasonably
accurate pollution load assesmnt for each type discharge with the costs of
carrying out the programs. Recomendations would be made for strengthening
and increasing the analytical capabilities of the laboratories, making most
effective use of existing facilities and trained staff. Training schemes will
also be introduced to upgrade the capabilities of laboratory staff and to
improve quality control of the monitoring process from sampling through to
processing of analytical results. Capital and operating budgets will be
prepared and staffing levels estimated to meet the requirements of the
expanded program and the quality control objectives.
9.        During the implementation phase of the work, consultants will work
closely with the pollution monitoring units as advisors and on-the-job
trainers until a smooth transition is achieved. As well as establishing
internal quality control procedures, external quality checks by National



- 136 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 11
Page 3
Institutes such as I8E Bandung will also be instituted, since the ultimate
objective is for these laboratories to be integrated into a pollution
monitoring and control function for each province.
Scope of Work
10.       By means of a separate TOR, consultants will be engaged to survey
pollution from existing PTP oil palm and rubber factories in all provinces,
including North Sumatra and West Kalimantan. Under the scope of this TOR the
consultant will be required to identify pollution sources from private and
public factories in the tree crop subsector as well as from private and public
factories in other industrial sectors. These data will be collected from
existing government sources and the accuracy of the data verified by sample
site visits on the basis of random selection. Thus a data base of pollution
sources will be compiled on a PC computer along with information on areas in
the province which have a record of past pollution incidents. The capabil-
ities of existing analytical laboratories in the province should be assessed
in the first instance to ensure that future proposals adequately take this
existing capacity into account when making recommendations for future moni-
toring and analysis of effluent and water quality All aspects of sampling
and analytical quality control should also be considered by the consultants
when reviewing these existing facilities.
tle      May government agencies and organisations are involved either
directly or indirectly in water quality managmu_t at the national, pro-
vincial, and local levels of government. The functib"ns of each of the
principal agencies involved and the difficulties encoustered by Government in
deeloping effective water pollution monitoring procedures should be addressed
by the consultants when reviewing institutional arrangemets and regulations
for pollution control in the provinces. The consultants will identify with
the assistance of national and provincial Public Works Departments the most
appropriate unit in the departament for performing the pollution monitoring
function and will determine how this function can be performed more effi-
ciently taking into account existing capabilities in the organization and in
outside laboratory facilities. The consultants will also review the existing
pollution discharge permit procedures within PU Dinas and evaluate its
effectiveness where deficiences are noted. Recommendations will be made for
improving the procedures and for more effective integration into the moni-
toring progrm and reporting of excursions outside of the permit limits to the
responsible authority.
12.       Deficiencies in laboratory and sampling equipment would be
identified by the consultants and equipment/chemicals lists drawn up for
purchase under this program. Additional staffing requirements will also be
detertined and a recruitont program initiated. The consultants will also
assist Public Works to determine additional budget requirement to support the
expanded monitoring program proposed under this project.
13.       All aspects of internal and external quality control will be
addressed by the consultants and procedures and operating manuals will
incorporate this requirement.



- 137 -
ANNEX 5
TOR li
Page 4
Documentation and Timing
14.       General and Consultancy Services Progress Report.  it is anticipated
that the duration of the project will be approximately three years. The con-
sultantshwill be responsible for preparation and submission of all documents
listed in the following subsections, subject to the approval of project
supervisors and incorporating their comments in the final versions. Reports
sha4l be in English with summaries in both English and Bahasa Indonesia.
Manuals shall be in Bahasa Indonesia. Twenty-five (25) copies ef all
documents will be submitted by the consultants unless otherwist detailed.
15.       Report formats 3hall, as far as practical, be standardized.  Where
investigations draw on work by others, documents prepared under the present
TOR shall be sufficiently self-contained as to be understood without constant
referral to other sources of information.
16.       The final reports shall be printed on both sides of the paper to
reduce thickness. All documents and drawings shall be marked prominently with
the issue date and Kod. Wilayah (Area Code) and should be of a standard
acceptable to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank).
17.       Inception Report..  Within two months of commencement of the
services, the consultants shall submit an Inception Report detailing the
approach to the various project components and a detailed statement of the
timing and deployment of their manpower resources. The report will also
include a statement of data collection and any problems identified which may
cause the project to be delayed.
18.       Si: Mouthly and Final Reports.  Initially to be provided in draft
form, these reports will detail the results of the various studies, recom-
mendations, budgets and actions taken to strengthen the Public Works'
monitoring capabilities. One month after acceptance by COI, forty (40) copies
of the final design report are to be submitted.
19.       Final tvaluation Report.  A final evAluation report and the final
manuals are required at the end of the implementation stage in forty (40)
copies.
20.       Kanuals.  Manals will be required for the pollution monitoring
units to define sampling analytical, reporting, and quality control
procedures, etc.
21.       The manuals will be prepared during the consultancy assignreit and
submitted in draft form for use by the monitoring units. These draft manuals
will be modified as necessary from experience gained during implementation and
submitted in forty (40) final copies w:th the Final Evaluation Report.



- 130 -
AMNE= 5
TOR 1 
Page 5
Estimated Manpower Requirements
22.       Overseas experts                       3 x 1.0 man years per province
Local consultant support service       2 x 3.0 man years per province
23.       In addition, allow for additional costs during the first three years
to strengthen the monitoring units to collect effluent and water quality
samples and compile a data base of industrial discharges.



- 139 _
ANNEX 5
TOR 12
Page I
INDONESIA
TREE cRoP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Stud! of Rubber
Marketing in Indonesia
1.        The Government of Indonesia (COI) wishes to employ a consulting firm
to: (i) evaluate the long term trends for domestic and international demand
for the different types and grades of rubber now produced or which could be
produced in Indonesia; (ii) review the current marketing channels; (iii)
evaluate the potential profitability for each type and grade of rubber; and
(iv) make recommendations on marketing policies. By these Terms of Reference,
the Director General of Estates (DWE) invites consulting firms to submit a
detailed work program and timetable for carrying out the work described below,
together with the names and full CMs of the individual consultants involved,
and cost proposals.
Scope of Work
2.        The consultants shall:
(a)  Identify and evaluate the long term trends for domestic and
international demand for the different types and grades of rubber
now produced or which it would be feasible to produce in
Indonesia. The anlysis should detail each major market by
location, end-users, and volume, in terms of weight and value, and
should consider all requirements for the different types and grades
of rubber such as latex, sheet, crumb, and crepe.  For each major
market, the analysis should review the evolution of market behavior
for the past ten year. and project trends for demand for fifteen
years into the future. The analysis should be based on statistical
data from reliable sources such as the International Rubber Study
Group (IRSC) and take into account opinions solicited from major end
users and market.
(b)  Review and evaluate the existing policy and institutional framework
in Indonesia for the marketing of rubber, including distribution to
export markets, to identify constraints and make reco _endations for
improving marketing efficiency. The study should assess marketing
and pricing policies and processes and marketing channels in both
the public and private sectors, for each stage of the marketing
chain between the collection and the final sale of each type of
rubber.
(c)  Assess the current and projected capacity of Indonesian producers in
both the public and private sectors to compete effectively in the
various markets, based on actual production, processing and
marketing costs for estates and smallholders according to the type
and grade of final product.



- 140-
ANNEX 5
TOR 12
Page 2
(4) On the basis of the foregoing, recommend different possible rubber
marketing strategies for the next fifteen years for GOT
consideration. The recommendation should: (i) assess the likely
costs and benefits; (ii) identify the main areas of risk and
possible measures to minimize risk; and (iii) undertake appropriate
sensitivity analyses.
ComDosition of the Team of Consultants
3.        It is expected that the team of consultants would include technical
professionals with a long experience in international rubber marketing, rubber
production and processing, marketing organization, and economics/finance.
Professional inputs required for this study have been estimated at a maximum
of 10 man-months, as in the break-down given below.
Professionals                                                Man-months
Economist with experience in commodity
markets, preferably rubber (Team Leader)                       4
International rubber marketing specialist with good
knowledge of ths rubber manufacturing industry                 2
Rubber trading specialist with experience in
Indonesia                                                      2
Rubber processing engineer with experience
in Indonesia and sound knowledge of
collection systems for smat olders'
rubber in latex and solid ftwms                                2
Total                                                     10
4.        The consulting firm may recommend, for consideration by DCI, changes
to the proposed Terms of Reference, to the composition of professionals, and
to the estimated man-months outlined above. The study should be completed
within 6 months.
Reports
5.        The consultants shall submit to uGse, within four months from the
start of work, an Interim Report in S copies for its review and comments.
After the completion of DGE's review, the consultants shall take into
consideration the comments received and submit within two months the Final
Report in 25 copies.



- 14 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Study of Long-Term Requirements
for Rubber and Palm Oil Processing Facilities in Indonesia
A. Background
1.        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) wishes to employ a consulting firm
to study the current and projected requirements for rubber and oil palm
processing facilities in Indonesia through the year 2003, and to formulate a
strategy to meet the requirements. This study is expected to build upon the
findings of a proposed study to recommend rubber marketing and product
development strategies for Indonesia.
2.        By these Terms of Reference, the Director General of Zstates invites
consulting firms to submit a detailed work program and timetable for carrying
out the work described below, together with the names and ful'l CVs of the
individual consultants involved, and cost proposals. This study will be
financed under the Tree Crop Processing Project to be jointly fin.uced by GOI
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). Hence
the experience and qualifications of the consultants and their terms of
employmeat will be agreed to by both partiss.
3.        The Directorate General of Estates (DGE), within the Department of
Agriculture, is responsible fot the overall development of estate crops
including rubber and oil palm. Within the public sector, the GO! has used
four basic strategies for promoting tree crop developments (a) an extension
program and supply of planting materials only; (b) projects implemented by
project management units (PMUs); (c) projects implemented by nucleus estates;
and (d) rehabilitation and expansion of small and medium sized private estate
enterprises.
4.        Private sector participation in tree crop development has not been
as extensive, although a number of large and small private estates and
processing facilities are in operation. Government anticipates the
establishment of new nucleus estate and smallholder development projects by
the private sector, either by wholly domestically-owned companies or through
joint ventures with foreign firms.
5.        Rubber produced by private estates, unassisted smallholders, and
smallholders in PKU programs is currently processed primarily by privately-
owned rubber factories, while rubber and oil palm produced by nucleus estate
and smallholder schemes are processed primarily by factories on Government-
owned estates (PTPs).



- 142 -
ANNEX 5
Toa 13
Page 2
S. Scope of Work
6.        The consulting firm shall:
(a) Review the evolution of production and processing of rubber and oil
palm in both the public and private sectors for the past ten
years. The review should assess past production performance and any
significant agronomic, technical, marketing, or policy factors that
may have influenced that performance.
(b) Estimate the current and projected production of unprocessed rubber
and oil palm fresh fruit bunches (FFB) in both the public and
private sectors annually for the period from 1987 to 2005. The
estimates should be disaggregated in terms of planted hectarages,
type of planting material, and assumed yield profiles by districts
(Kabupaten) throughout the country. The methodology employed should
be clearly stated, and should take into account available data and
realistic assumptions related to: (i) current, planned and
projected public and private investment in the planting and
replanting of rubber and oil palm; (ii) GOI policies and regulations
affecting production, processing and marketing in the sector;
(iii) domestic and external demand for raw material and processed
products; and (iv) production efficiency within the sector. In
making its assumptilna, the consulting firm should take into account
the findings of the rubber marketing study (see par&. 1). The
estimates should be tested by field visits to a representative
sample of current and planned production areas.
'c) Estimate current, actual rubber and oil palm processing capacity and
actual production in both the public and private sectors. The
estimates should be disaggregated in terms of final product, type of
raw material, source of supply, district, and, to the extent
possible, by factory. The estimates should be tested by field
visits to a representative sample of public and private rubber and
palm oil factories.
(d) Taking into account the findings of (b) and (c) above, and (e)
below, prepare estimates of potential private investment in rubber
and oil palm processing annually for the period from 1987 to 2005.
The estimates should be disaggregated, to the extent possible, by
final product, production capacity, location, and source of raw
material supply. The methodology and assumptions employed should be
clearly stated, and the estimates should take into account opinions
solicited from knowledgeable sources in the public and private
sectors, including existing processors.
(e) Taking into account the findings of (b), (c) and (d) above, and the
product development strategies proposed by the marketing study,
formulate a strategy and a proposed annual investment program for
expanding or constructing new public rubber and oil palm processing
facilities and related infrastructure that would take into account
spare capacity in existing processing facilities and result in a



- 143 -
ANNEX 5
TOR 13
Page 3
least cost development sequence for investment in public processing
for the period up to 2005. The methodology and assumptions employed
should be clearly stated. The proposed public investment program
should be detailed, to the extent possible, by final product, type
of facility, and production capacity, location, source of supply,
transport requirements, estimated investment cost, and estimated
financial and economic rates of return. The analysis should also:
(i) identify the main areas of risk and possible measures to
minimize risk; (ii) include appropriate sensitivity analyses; and
(iii) outline selected alternative strategies.
C. Composition of the Team of Consultants
7.        It is expected that the team of consultants would include technical
professionals with several years of experience in economics, finance,
transportation, marketing, tree crop agronomy, and rubber/oil palm
processing. Professional inputs required for this study have been estimated
at a maximum of 34 ma-months, as in the breakdown given below.
Professionals                                     man-months
Economist/Commodity Specialist (Team Leader)            8
Pinancial Analyst/Economist                             6
Transport Engineer/Economist                            2
Market Analyst                                          2
Tree Crop Agronomist                                    6
Rubber Processing Engineer                              6
Oil Palm Processing Engineer                            4
34
S.        The consulting firm may recomiend, for consideration by DGE, changes
to the proposed Terms of Reference, to the composition of professionals, and
to the estimated man-months outlined above. The study is expected to be
completed within eight months.
0. Reports
9.        The consultant shall submit to DOE, within four months from the
start of work, an Interim Report in 25 copies for its review and comment. The
Interim Report should include the basic data and justifications for the
assumption's that would be employed in the analysis. After review by DGE, a
determination shall be made as to whether the scope of work should be expanded
or reduced. The draft Final Report shall be submitted to DGE in 25 copies
within seven months from the start of work for review and comment. After the
completion of DGE's review, the consultant shall take into consideration the 1
comments received and submit within one month the Final Report in 25 copies.



- 144 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Material on Subsector (none)
B. Background Material on Project
B-1    Directorate General of Estates (Tim Khusus) Preparation Report for
the Tree Crop Processing Project; June 1987; 3 volumes
C. Workins Papers and Tables Prepared by Bank Staff
C-1    Economic and Financial Analyses
C-2    FOB Price Calculations
C-3    COSTAB Tables
C-4    Detailed cost information provided by consultants
(a) rubber factories
(b) palm oil factories
(c) training
C-5    Factory Staffing Requirements
C-6    Monitoring and Evaluation
C-7    Technical Studies
C-8   Guidelines for the Standardization of Rubber and Palm Oil Factories
C-9    Detailed Crop Projections



D . A^CEH1 T>      t               b:uh      i>xBR NI                                             > <                 ~     t                                  REE C-ROP PROCtSSING  PRO J                -.
9> ~>,Sbol 2  tX0 PMALAYSIA                                                               JNAN Rvbb//-D0s   S< 5 
8 l                                                                                  i                                                                                       , 0 r' . "'. atn do -Soz<    ^6-m 
i°  XXVI  TOD>   Sqril   I ill i n   .bl9   5  {_    _S   t2AWA TN   a  o   S   g   *     ;           ;  > {    .           , u e  ecbes               -    ,O-O't&  
, AV - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TIG>YM -P  SE-  A
- < 7^VH N ~ - O - -< /4DEReH;.UR < - 7 - ° KA                                                                                                                                     -   -
- 8 ~~~~~~~~~)A  IV4 n  j/a                                             c         e                 n  >  0     0  Zc-  
MRA.                                           wEI  .<*; Alfi 1# ;  1  ;    .1 .  -.,..ir .;-.X,e



