Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16597
Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
(Loan 3000-IND)
Final
May 12, 1997
Agriculutre Operations Divisions
Country Department III
East Asia and Paciflc Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUJIVALENTS
Currency UJnit = Indonesian Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1988:
US $ 1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1,660
Rp 1 Million = US$ 602
At Project Completion in 1996:
US $ 1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 2,341
Rp 1 Million = US$ 427
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOI: April 1 -- March 31
PTPs: January 1 -I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO           Crude Palm Oil
CRF           Crumb Rubber Factory
DGE           Directorate General of Estate
EIRR         Economic Rate of Return
FFB          Fresh Fruit Bunches (oil palm)
FIRR         Financial Rate of Return
FMDB         Factory Monitoring Data Base
GOI           Government of Indonesia
LC            Letter of Credit
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NES/PIR       Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Projects
NOL           No Objection Letter (Bank's approval required before proceeding with various aspects of
the project)
PMCA         Pollution Monitoring and Control Aurthority
PTP           Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan (State-owned Limited Liability Estate Company)
PTPN          Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan Nusantara (recently reorganised PTPs)
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TA            Technical Assistance
TCPP          Tree Crops Processing Project
TKPIR         Tim Khusus Perkebunan Inti Rakyat (Special Team for Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder)
RSI           World Bank Resident Staff in Indonesia
Vice President                   Jean-Michel Severino
Director                         Marianne Haug
Division Chief/Manager           Gershon Feder
Staff Member                     Mluhammad Osman Farruk



TABLE OF CONTENTS                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents                                                                i
Preface                                                                        iii
Evaluation Summary                                                            iv
PART I:        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.     Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                               1
B.     Achievement of Objectives                                        2
C.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project    5
D.     Project Sustainability                                           7
E.     Bank Performance                                                 7
F.     Borrower Performance                                             8
G.     Assessment of Outcome                                            9
H.     Future Operation                                                 9
I.     Key Lessons Learned                                             10
PART II:       STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5a:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation - New
Construction/Expansion/Rehabilitation of Palm Oil Mills
Table 5b:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Physical Planning for
the Construction/Expansion/Rehabilitation of Palm Oil Mills
Table 5c:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation - New
Construction/Expansion/ Rehabilitation of Crumb Rubber Factories
Table Sd:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Physical Planning for
the Construction/Expansion/Rehabilitation of Crumb Rubber
factories
Table 6a:     Key Indicators for Project Operation - Palm Oil Mills
Table 6b:     Key Indicators for Project Operation - Crumb Rubber Factories
Table 7:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 8a:     Project Costs
Table 8b:     Project Financing
Table 9a:     Summary of ERR and FRR (Base Cost) - Crude Palm Oil Mills and Crumb
Rubber Factories
Table 9b:     Sensitivity Analysis (Price) - Crude Palm Oil Mills and Crumb Rubber
Factories
Table 9c:     Sensitivity Analysis (Cost and and Capacity Utilization) - Crude Palm Oil
Mills and Crumb Rubber Factories
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants: Indonesia - Tree Crop Processing Project
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
ANNEX B.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Part a.    Palm Oil Mills
Part b.    Rubber Factories
APPENDIX I  AIDE MEMOIRE
APPENDIX II A: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
B: LETTER FROM THE BORROWER
APPENDIX III COMPARISON MAP OF PROJECT SITES



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS PROCESSING PROJECT
(Loan 3000-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tree Crops Processing Project
(TCPP) in Indonesia, for which Loan 3000-IND in the amount of US$ 118.2 million equivalent was
approved on November 15, 1988 and made effective on March 2, 1989.
The loan was closed on September 30, 1996, three years later than the original closing date
of September 30, 1993. Following three cancellations, amounting to US$ 35.76 million, the Bank
loan at loan closing stood at US$ 82.4 million. The final disbursement took place on February 20,
1997, at which time a balance of US$ 7.35 million was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by the Japanese Government with a grant of JPY 240 million, disbursements under which
were completed and an undisbursed balance of JPY 1,379,465 canceled on April 26, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by M. Osman Farruk, Agriculture Operations Division, East Asia and
Pacific Region, World Bank with assistance of the FAO Cooperative Program and its consultants,
Mr. Dennis Ellingson, Economist/Management Specialist and Mr. Lee Yew Foong, Oil Palm/Rubber
Processing Specialist. Gershon Feder, Division Chief (EA3AG), reviewed and cleared the final
draft.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
during November 4 to 22, 1996. It is based on visits to some of the project sites, discussions with
the staff of the Directorate General of Estates and the State owned Estate Companies, and review of
materials in the project files. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR was received on March 21,
1997 and is included in the ICR as Appendix III.



- Iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS PROCESSING PROJECT
(Loan 3000-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    During the Third Five-Year Plan (Repelita III) (1979-84), the Government of Indonesia
promoted the planting and replanting of some 350,000 ha of rubber and oil palms through a series of
nucleus estate and smallholder (NES/PIR) projects. Many of these plantings started to reach
maturity during the late 1980s, requiring access to processing facilities. However, the majority of
the state owned tree crops' estates (PTPs) did not have the capacity to construct the required
processing facilitites, and public funding for constructing additional facilities were not provided for
many of the NES/PIR sites. Access to commercial credit was also limited for the PTPs due to their
high debt service obligations, built up in earlier years as a result of ambitious development
programs, low commodity prices, and high export taxes on tree crop produce. Private processing
facilities were largely involved in processing the output of their own estates and generally not
located in the areas were NES/PIR development took place. At appraisal it was estimated that the
tree crop sector was incurring losses of about US$200 million annually due to inadequate and
inefficient processing of tree crop produce. Against this background, the Tree Crops Processing
Project (TCPP) was designed and implemented to address the need for increased processing capacity
and improving the efficiency in existing NES/PIR sites.
Project Objectives
ii.    The primary objectives of the project were: (i) to raise the productivity and efficiency of the
tree crop subsector; (ii) to safeguard smallholder and estate incomes; (iii) to increase non-oil exports;
and (iv) to generate rural employment, and improve smallholder incomes in the Outer Islands. These
objectives were to be achieved by: (a) establishing new and expanding/rehabilitating existing
factories in the publicly owned PTPs to process raw materials produced at the NES/PIR projects; (b)
improving processing efficiency at the existing plants; and (c) strengthening the ability of the
Directorate General of Estates (DGE) and related Government agencies (including those concerned
with environmental protection) to provide technical, institutional, marketing and other support to the
tree crop subsector.
iii.   There were two major project components: (i) the Processing Facilities component which
provided funds (on term credit) to the PTPs for constructing and efficiently operating additional
processing facilties for oil palm and rubber in the NES/PIR sites, and (ii) the Project Support (non-
credit) component which provided funds to the DGE for providing project implementation assistance
to the PTPs and to strengthen its capacities to support sustainable development of the tree crop
sector.



- v -
iv.    The project's objectives and components were justified when considered against the urgent
need for additional processing capacities and improving the efficiency at the existing NES/PIR sites,
and for facilitating the recovery of smallholder credit through deductions from the sales price of raw
materials at the processing points.  However, when considered against the demonstrated
inefficiencies of the PTPs, the fundamental policy and institutional constraints to private sector
investment in the production, processing and marketing of tree crops, and the Bank's recent policies
for private sector development, it would appear that the objectives and interventions may have been
defined too narrowly and the Project was not leveraged to (i) promote privatization of the PTPs, and
(ii) address some of the critical institutional and policy constraints to long-term improvements in the
productivity and efficiency of the tree crop subsector, including private sector development.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    The project as designed and implemented was complex and subject to a high degree of
implementation risk. It involved a large number of implementing agencies (12 PTPs), not all of
whom had the financial and institutional capabilties for managing major civil works programs,
including importation and domestic fabrication of machinery and factory components. It burdened
the Director General of Estates (DGE) and its special team (Tim Khusus) for implementing NES/PIR
projects with the management of a large number of civil works and procurement contracts, and
supervision of a substantial construction program spread over a large geographic area. There were
procurement and construction delays, initially because of disagreements among the PTPs on the
technical specifications of the crude palm oil (CPO) mills, and delays in the finalization of standard
designs for CPO mills and crumb rubber factories (CRF), and subsequently because of poor
performance by some contractors, supervising consultants and project management staff, particularly
those dealing with contract administration. These delays necessitated the extension of the loan
closing date by three years.
vi.    A number of major changes in the scope and activities of the project were made during its
implementation, particularly at the mid-term review, reflecting downward revisions of crop
forecasts, difficulties in vehicle procurement under the LCB, and reassesment of the working capital
needs of the PTPs. These changes resulted in: (i) about 34% reduction of the physical targets for
additional oil palm and rubber processing ; (ii) cancellation and/or re-location of some proposed new
construction of processing facilities and rehabilitation of existing ones; (iii) additional studies and
training activities; and (iv) cancellation of US$35.76 million (30% of original) of loan amount. At
loan closing, the additional processing capacities constructed under the project (300 tons of palm
fruit bunches per hour and 140 tons of dry rubber per day) were about a third lower than the SAR
targets, but the reduction was justified in view of downward revisions in crop projections at the
NES/PIR sites.
vi.   The project has achieved its objective of raising the productivitv and efficiency of the tree
crop subsector. The additional processing facilties have helped reduce potential wastages arising
from unprocessed palm fruit bunches and rubber. The project-induced improvements in the
engineering and technical aspects of the plants and machineries, and of the management and
technical skills of PTP staff have also resulted in overall improvements in processing efficiencies.
Average extraction rates of crude palm oil ( about 23%) and palm kemal (about 5%) at the palm oil
mills are higher than the pre-project averages of 18% and 4%, respectively, and exceeded SAR
projections by over 10%. Raw material throughput in all but one of the project supported CPO mills
and Crumb Rubber factories range between 90%-93%, which is slightly below the practical optimum



- vi -
of 95% but substantially higher than the pre-project throughput of about 70%. These performance
indicators compare favourably with the performance of the efficient mills in Malaysia and
elsewhere.
viii. The project's objectives of sgfeguarding smallholder and estate incomes and generating
rural emplovment and improving rural incomes in the outer islands have also been achieved. At full
development, nearly 1.5 million tons of fresh palm fruit bunches (FFB) and 36 thousand tons of dry
rubber will be processed by the factories/mills constructed under the project and benefit some 65,000
smallholder oil palm and rubber growers. Without these additional processing facilities at the
NES/PIR sites, the smallholders' and estate produce would have been wasted for lack of access to
processing facilties and/or their value decreased by higher transport costs to distant facilities. The
smallholders are expected to receive between Rp. 230-250 billion (US$ 95-108 million equivalent)
per year as proceeds from the sales of their produce. The PTPs that were supported under the project
have also improved their pre-tax and after-tax profitabilty.
ix.   Indonesia's production of palm oil and rubber have increased by about 14% and 4% per
annum, respectively, from 1990 to 1994, while their exports have grown by nearly 20% (palm oil)
and 4% (rubber) per annum during the same period. During 1996, production from the project mills
and factories were estimated at 200,500 tons palm oil; 47,600 tons kernel; and 16,600 tons rubber.
The incremental processing capacity at full development (1998) will generate annual incremental
production of 330,000 tons of palm oil, 75,000 tons of kernel and 31,500 tons of rubber, and
account for over 10% of the volume of export of these crops. It can be, therefore, concluded that the
project has also achieved its objectives for contributing to increased non-oil exports.
x.    The economic rate of return for the project was re-estimated at 28%, ranging from 19%-45%
for the palm oil mills, and 21%- 45% for four of the five rubber factories. Three of the five crumb
rubber factories have financial rates of return of 45%, one 18%, and one below 10%. For the palm
oil mills, two have FRRs above 20%, six between 10%-20%, two below 10%. The individual ERRs
and FRRs are lower than estimated at appraisal because of: (i) delays in the construction of the
factories; (ii) investments in new construction, which has lower return than in
rehabiltation/expansion of existing factories, exceeding appraisal estimates; (iii) lower prices of CPO
than projected at appraisal; (iv) higher smallholder FFB prices ( 80% of FOB vs 60% assumed at
appraisal), and (v) higher unit costs of processing in some factories during the initial years of
operation due to lower throughput than estimated at appraisal. Although the overall ERR is lower
than the SAR estimates ( 57% ), it is still robust and substantially above the opportunity cost of
capital in Indonesia. Even at the low end of the 70% probabilty range for projected prices, the ERR
would be 19%; at the higher end of the probability range, the ERR will be 37% and the ERRs and
FRRs for all the project mills and factories will be satisfactory.
xi.    Although not specifically stated as project objectives, the project has made substantial
contributions to institutional development and improvements in environmental management at the
processing plants. Project-funded training and technical assistance has created a pool of trained and
widely exposed managerial and technical staff for management of the factories.  Factory
management teams now have the competencies to achieve the performance necessary for
commercial sustainability. All the factories financed under the project have adequate effluent
treatment systems, and most of them have already achieved full compliance with GOI environmental
standards. At loan closing, over 75% of all PTP factories were reported to have achieved full



- vii -
compliance, compared to 20% at the inception of the project. It is envisaged that 100% industry-
wide compliance to the standards of waste management would be possible by the year 1998.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xii.   Despite initial implementation delays as mentioned earlier, the revised physical targets of the
project and the objectives of the project as appraised were substantially achieved. The outcome of
the project has therefore been rated as satisfactory. The Directorate General of Estates, the Tim
Khusus and the PTPs deserve credit for successfully implementing a complex project. However,
some of the procurement and implementation delays could have been minimized if the
Government's fiscal management procedures were flexible enough to allow the project to pay for the
import duties on project-related imports when the Government revoked the duty free privileges; or
the Government had an effective mechanism for the swift resolution of contractual disputes with
civil works contractors. Overall, the borrower's performance has been rated as satisfactory.
xiii.  The Bank's overall performance has been rated as satisfactory. Its participation was
extensive in all the phases of the project cycle. The mid-term review in 1992 led to some major
adjustments in the project scope, which improved the pace of implementation and the development
impact of the project. The Bank made an exceptional third extension of the loan closing date, which
was fully justified to complete the project successfully, and indicative of the flexibility and
responsiveness of the Bank towards the needs of the GOI and the project. Nevertheless, at the project
design and appraisal stages, the Bank should have analyzed the rationale for public sector resource
use in commercial operations more critically, particularly in view of the policy impediments to
private sector investments, and structured the Bank's support within a wider policy framework for
addressing these constraints. The Bank's forecasts of incremental productions at the NES/PIR sites
were also optimistic and resulted in time-consuming restructuring of the project's scope.
xiv.   Although the performance of the PTPs supported by the project have improved and the
processing facilities are operating efficiently at present, these efficiency gains are largely attributed
to the intensive Bank/GOI supervision and the heavy technical assistance inputs provided under the
project during its implementation. There is, therefore, a risk that these gains will not be sustained
over the longer term. For these to be sustained, the basic incentives regimes and the managerial
context of the PTPs need to be reformed to adhere to commercial and private sector competition
standards. Indeed, the public estate companies as a whole remain unquestionably inefficient in their
operations. Their overall financial performance have declined steadily during the last decade, and
their profits and returns on assets now are estimated at less than 6 percent. A 1993 Bank study of
four PTPs concluded that they were significantly less efficient than the private estates and
smallholders in oil palm and rubber in terms of crop yields, processing efficiency and overall costs
of production. Part of the PTPs' problems are inherent in their charters, which require them to
render agricultural support services to smallholders (extension and training) on a non-commercial
basis, and support the Government's social objective for rural employment generation, often at
unjustifiable financial costs. But more importantly, the overall operation of the PTPs are also
subject to Government's fiscal and adminsitrative controls that are inconsistent with commercially
oriented operations. There are no incentives for the PTPs to be profit-oriented.  Superior
performances are not rewarded, and vice versa; revenues from sales are consolidated at the PTPN
head offices, and funding for factory maintenance and operation are provided through budget
appropriations, which often are inadequate and arbitrary. It is possible that the PTPs supported
under the project will be subsumed by the overall institutional, management and financial



- viii -
afflictions of the public estate companies and the efficiency gains fostered by the project will be
lost. The development impact and outcome of the project will, therefore, be sustainable in the
long-run only if the PTPs and the factories are privatized and/or allowed to operate on strictly
commercial principles. Government policies on these critical factors in the sustainabilty of the
project remain largely unclear and uncertain (see paras 35-36 on future operation), the global
experiences of public sector involvement in commercial activities are replete with examples of
failures and hence, the ICR has concluded that the prospects for project sustainabilty is uncertain.
xv.   The Government's plans for the project's future operation are still emerging and are tied to
the on-going institutional and organizational changes of the PTPs, and strengthening of public sector
advisory and financial services to the smallholders. Although the ICR mission was advised that GOI
would eventually move towards full privatization of the PTPs, particularly of the NES/PIR schemes
and their associated processing facilities, its written contribution to the ICR, however, does not
corroborate this commitrnent. Subsequently, GOI has indicated that the question of privatization
will be considered in the context of the preparation of the PTPs' twenty-five year plans and that
some of the PTPs are already moving to this direction. The ICR has, therefore, recomnmended that
until the principles and modalities for privatizing the PTPs are agreed and acted upon, the GOI must
ensure that the institutional, organizational and operational arrangements for the PTPs do not hinder
the management of the processing factories as commercial entities, competing in a fair and open
market for purchasing their raw materials and disposing their output (see para 36).
xvi.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project are listed below:
*     The rationale for Bank support for public sector investments in commercial enterprises has to
be clearly established. In the event such investments are warranted, they should be
undertaken alongside effective policy measures to remove the constraints to private sector
participation in such activities, and within the framework of a time-bound plan for their early
privatization.
The scrutiny applied to the selection of contractors should be comprehensive and thorough to
ensure their financial and management capabilities. The tenderers' financial situation and
track record should be given more weight in the selection process.
*     The Government should have an effective mechanism for timely resolution of contractual
disputes.
*     Realistic crop forecasts are essential for planning of investments in processing facilities.
*     For projects dealing with commercial entities, financial performnance indicators should be
developed and monitored during project supervision.  All monitoring and evaluation
activities must start early in the implementation stage to ensure their full usefulness and
continuation beyond the implementation stage of the project.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.     During the Third Five-year Plan (Repelita III) (1979-84), the Government of Indonesia
promoted the planting and replanting of some 350,000 ha of rubber and oil palms through a series of
nucleus estate and smaliholder (NES/PIR) projects.' Most of the investments were in the 'outer
islands', which have the agro-ecological advantages for the profitable production of these crops and
where rural poverty is ubiquitous. Many of these plantings started to reach maturity during the late
1980s, requiring access to processing facilities. However, while the need for additional processing
capacities were identified at the time of the implementation of the planting programs, for many
NES/PIR sites public sector funding for expanding processing facilities was not provided, although
most of the public estates (PTPs) were not in a position to fund the construction of the factories.
Access to commercial credit was also limited for most PTPs due to their already existing high debt
service obligations which had built up in previous years due to ambitious development programs,
low commodity prices and low returns in earlier years due to export taxes. Private sector facilties
were involved in processing their own output and were not appropriately equipped and/or sited to
handle the incremental production of the NES/PIR projects. According to Government estimates,
the tree crop sector was incurring losses of nearly US$200 million annually on account of inadequate
and inefficient processing facilities. Against this background, the Tree Crops Processing Project
(TCPP) was designed to address the need for increased processing capacity and efficiency in existing
NES/PIR sites, and to facilitate the recovery of smallholder credit ( by deductions at the processing
points) extended under the various NES/PIR schemes.
2.     The primary objectives of the project were: (i) to raise the productivity and efficiency of the
tree crop subsector; (ii) to safeguard smallholder and estate incomes; (iii) to increase non-oil exports;
and (iv) to generate rural employment, and improve smallholder incomes in the Outer Islands. These
objectives were to be achieved by: (a) establishing new and expanding/rehabilitating existing
factories in the public sector to process the raw material from NES/PIR projects; (b) improving
processing efficiency at the plants; and (c) strengthening the ability of the Directorate General of
Estates(DGE) and related Government agencies (including those concerned with environmental
protection) to provide technical, institutional, marketing and other support to the tree crop subsector.
3.     These project outcomes were to be achieved through the provision of additional funds to the
PTPs as long-term credit as well as through technical assistance, training and studies. Essentially,
there were two major project components. First, the Processing Facilities (credit) component of the
project was for (a) the Construction and expansion of 11 rubber and 14 palm oil factories, including
effluent control and associated housing; (b) procurement of Vehicles needed at each new or
expanded site; (c ) Training of PTP staff to provide the manpower skills to operate new and
expanded factories; (d) Technical assistance to the PTPs to review the operations of the existing
factories, to train and coordinate the training of engineering staff, and to monitor the construction
and commissioning of new and expanded factories; and (e) Working capital. Second, the Project
Support (non-credit) component was for (a) Environmental protection including the strengthening of
1 To date, the Bank has supported five PMU and seven NES type smallholder tree crop development projects with total
commitments amounting to over US$ 950 million, and involving over 332,000 farm families and over 400,000 ha of smallholder
areas.



-2 -
pollution monitoring units in two project provinces, and a survey to determine the current status of
effluent control in existing PTP factories; (b) Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) including technical
assistance and other support to DGE (Tim Khusus); (c ) Training of DGE and related agency
personnel with responsibilities in the tree crop processing subsector; (d) Studies, e.g., (i) technical
studies to develop and recommend more efficient processing methods taking into account of local
conditions and the structure of the Indonesian tree crop subsector; and (ii) non-technical studies of
rubber marketing and long-term processing needs; and (e) Start-up funds related to future tree crop
projects, including possible introduction of advanced tree crop processing technology.
4.      The project's objectives and components were justified considering the urgent need for
additional processing capacities and improving the efficiency at the existing NES/PIR sites, and for
affording the Government a convenient mechanism for smallholder credit recovery. However, given
the Bank's recent policies for increased privatization of the public sector entitities, and the global
experiences of unsustainabilty of public sector commercial enterprises, the project should have been
designed to foster privatization of the PTPs and remove some of the fundamental policy and
institutional constraints to private sector investment in tree crops processing and marketing (trade
restrictions, price controls, cumbersome licensing requirements for factory construction and
expansion, and difficult access to land for development). The Bank, in a December 1989 Report,
concluded that the array of public sector interventions designed to increase the value added from
rubber, oil palm and coconut; stabilize consumer prices for tree crops produce; protect producer
returns; improve processing efficiency through a matching of raw material supply with processing
capacity; and to stimulate export growth, were largely ineffective. The SAR itself had also
identified a number of policy reformns for improving the incentives regime for private sector
participation in the commercial production, processing and marketing of tree crop products.2
However, the project's objectives and interventions fell short of initiating any movement in any of
the above policy directions.
6.     The project as designed and implemented was complex and subject to a high degree of risk
as it involved a large number of executing agencies and relied on their respective management
capabilities for diverse activities including the procurement and supervision of major contracts.
Procurement and construction delays were evident and necessitated the extension of the loan by a
further three years beyond the original closing date. A number of major changes in project scope
and activities also occurred during its implementation (see section C).
B. Achievement of Objectives
7.     Despite the initial and subsequent delays in project implementation, the project has fully
achieved the revised (see para. 15) targets for constructing additional processing facilities and,
thereby its objectives of (i) raising the productivity and efficiency of the tree crop subsector; (ii)
safeguarding smallholder and estate incomes; (iii) increasing non-oil exports; and (iv) generating
rural employment and improving smallholder income.
2 These were: (a) rationalization of policies relating to export restrictions, obligatory domestic sales, price controls and export
taxes for crude palm oil; (b) review of the policy requirement that private nucleus estates also must develop large smaliholder
areas and provide initial financing for smallholders; (c) review of the policies affecting domestic manufacture of processing
equipment and/or their importation; (d) streamlining procedures for land titling, obtaining usufruct as well as business and
operating licences for tree crop establishment and processing; and (e) establishment of effective and industry-wide pricing
formulas for smallholder rubber and oil palm FFB, under which the private sector would operate in a NES/PIR project.



- 3 -
8.    The project has achieved its objective of raising the productivitv and efficiency of the tree
crop subsector, particularly of the PTP owned CPO and rubber factories. At loan closing, the
revised targets for additional processing facilities (300 tons of FFB/hr and 140 tons of DRC/hr) were
fully achieved, and the CPO mills and Crumb Rubber Factories (CRF) are all in operation. The
installed processing capacities are about a third lower than stipulated at appraisal, but are fully
consistent with the revised forecasts of crop production. While the output of dry rubber content will
be about 51% of SAR targets, the full development production of palm products is expected to be
about 98.8% of SAR targets, largely because of the enhanced processing and throughput efficiencies
at the factories. The CPO extraction rates in most of the existing and new PTP palm oil factories
reached an average of over 22% ( range 19.5%-23.5%), compared to a pre-project average of 18%
and SAR target of 21%. Kernel extraction rates have increased to over 5%, compared to a pre-
project average of less than 4% and SAR target of 4.5%. Throughput in all but one of the project-
supported mills range between 90%-93%, slightly below the practical optimum of 95% but
substantially higher than the average pre-project throughput of around 70%. These improvements
can be attributed to the project-induced upgrading of the engineering and technical aspects of the
plants and machineries, and of the management and technical skills of PTP staff. The development
of the factory monitoring data base (FMDB) system for monitoring and management control of the
technical performance of the   factories was an important contributor to these efficiency
improvements.
9.    The other set of interrelated objectives of safeguarding smallholder and estate incomes, and
gzeneratin2 rural employment and improving smallholder incomes were also satisfactorily achieved.
At full development, nearly 1.5 million tons of fresh palm fruit bunches (FFB) and 36 thousand tons
of dry rubber will be processed by the factories/mills constructed under the project and benefit some
65,000 smallholder oil palm and rubber growers. Altogether, the smallholders are expected to
receive between Rp. 230-250 billion per year as proceeds from the sales of their produce to these
factories. Without these additional processing facilities at the NES/PIR sites, the smallholders' and
estate produce would have been wasted for lack of access to processing facilties and/or their value
decreased by higher transport costs to distant facilities. For example, in Jambi province, two CPO
factories at Sei Bahar I and II (Pinang Tinggi and Bunut) are the only such facilities serving a large
population of smallholder oil palm growers. The CPO factory at Tanjung Medan is the only
processing facilities for smallholders in a radius of 150 km. Lastly, the PTPs that were supported
under the project have improved their pre-tax and after-tax profitabilty and have become attractive
for privatization. (see para 14).
10.   Indonesia's production of palm oil and rubber have increased by approximately 14% and 4%
per annum, respectively, from 1990 to 1994 (palm oil production increased from 2.4 million tons in
1990 to 4.1 million tons in 1994; during the same period, rubber production increased from 1.3
million tons to 1.5 million tons). Exports of these commodities have also crown by nearly 20% per
annum for palm oil (0.97 million tons in 1990 to 1.97 million tons in 1994) and 4% per annum for
rubber (1.1 million tons 1.25 million tons in 1994). In 1995, CPO and kernel production from the
new factories constructed under the project reached 180,400 tons and 42,800 tons, respectively.
Incremental production of rubber from the new and the expanded old factories reached 11,200 tons
in 1995. The estimates for 1996 are 200,500 tons CPO; 47,600 tons kernel; and 16,600 tons rubber.
The incremental processing capacity at full development (1997) will provide for annual incremental
production (SAR targets in parenthesis) of 330,000 tons of palm oil (340,000 tons), 75,000 palm



- 4 -
11.    Although  not specifically  stated  as project objectives, it has achieved  significant
improvements in the standard of waste management at the PTP factory sites and contributed to
institutional development. At loan closing, seven of the 10 project financed mills had achieved full
compliance with GOI environmental standards, and it is expected that the remaining three mills will
have achieved full compliance of GOI standards during the current year.3 As for the five project
financed rubber factories, all have installed and fully upgraded effluent treatment systems which
operate within the limits set by the GOI for compliance of environmental standards. The two
Pollution Monitoring and Control Authority studies (PMCA I and PMCA II) on environment
protection have contributed to the success, as well as the strengthening of pollution monitoring
capabilities in North Sumatra and West Kalimantan provinces. The project has also successfully
heightened the general awareness for environmental issues and an appnreciation for the beneflts of
pollution control. Before the project, none of the approximately 200 PTP factories were in
compliance with the national standards. By early 1996, 75% of all PTP factories were reported to
have achieved full compliance. It is envisaged that with increased awareness combined with a
strengthening of enforcement activities by GOI and by provincial governments, and further
understanding of the benefits of properly managed effluent control, 100% industry-wide compliance
should be achieved by the year 1998.
12.    The project helped the creation of a pool of trained and widely exposed managerial and
technical skills for management of the factories. The SAR target was to provide on-the-job training
to about 850 PTP staff, short courses and overseas training to selected factory managers and senior
PTP staff. It also envisaged the training of 91 DGE and other related agencies' staff with Masters
Degree programs (21) and short courses. At the end, 1,359 persons were trained including 734 staff
from 15 different PTP factories, and 625 PTP and GOI staff, 23 of whom enrolled and completed
Masters Degrees.
13.    International palm oil and rubber processing consultants were recruited and stationed at each
of the PTP headquarters with the role of reviewing and improving the efficiency of existing PTP
factories and advising management on the construction of new factories. Additional six consultants
were employed to strengthen TKPIR's technical capacity in the areas of environmental protection
and M&E. Technical and non-technical studies were carried out. These activities have substantially
contributed to project implementation, particularly to the improvement of the existing PTP factory
performance.
14.    The recent increases in profitability indicates the impact of the improvements on overall
management of the project-supported PTPs. In 1994, profits (pre-tax as well as after tax) for the
PTPs supported under the project were 2 to 3 times higher than their profits in 1991. This by itself,
and in the absence of data on their respective capital and debt structure and key ratios (i.e., debt
servicing, debt-equity, asset-liability, etc.), cannot be taken as conclusive testimony to the PTPs'
state of financial health. Nonetheless, the improved profits of the project supported PTPs is an
indication of the beneficial impact the project has had on them.
3 The effluent treatment system at the Bunut mill has yet to be fully installed. However, when completed in early 1997, this mill
should also be able to achieve full compliance of GOI standards. Although the Cot Girek mill and effluent treatment system is
fully operational, it could only achieve partial compliance due to the lack of preparation in the initial start-up of the system and
work is now in progress which should provide for full compliance of GOI standards by mid-1997. Finally, the Tanjung Medan
mill was only due for commissioning in December 1996 and therefore, the effluent treatment system would not be fully tested
until mid-1997.



- 5 -
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.    According to the original scope, the project would have been implemented over a period of 4
years (1989 - 1993) in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Java, and involve 12 PTPs. Project implementation,
however, fell behind schedule from the onset. Following the Bank's mid-term review in February
1992, the project scope was substantially amended, reducing the SAR targets for oil palm processing
from 450 tons of FFB/hr to 300 tons and, for rubber, from 210 tons of DRC/day to 140 tons.
Accordingly expansions of all five planned CPO factories were canceled, although one existing
factory was rehabilitated. Nine originally planned new factories were constructed albeit one in a
different location to the original program.4 The originally envisaged eight new CRF factories were
reduced to three including a small pilot factory for research purposes. The originally targeted
expansion of four existing CRF factories was reduced to three. The following table provides a
summary of the original and revised targets, and actual completion.
Table 1. Construction of Processing Facilities. SAR vs Actual
S-AR             Mid-term Review        Actual to Dec. 1996
Number  Incr.Cap.*   Number  Incr.Cap.*   Number  Incr.Cap.*
Palm Oil Factories
New Construction        9          300         9          300          8          300
Expansion               5          150         0           0           0           0
Rubber Factories
New Construction #      7          130         3           70          3          70
Expansion               4          80          3           70          3          70
* For CPO factories, increased capacity in terms of tons FFB/hour; for Rubber factories, increased capacity in terms of tons
dry rubber/day.
# Including Sembawa Rubber Research facility with expected throughput capacity of 10 tons dry rubber/day.
16.    The first extension of the loan (to September 30, 1994) followed the February 1992 mid-term
review when the Bank Mission recommended major adjustments to the project scope (para. 15),
additional studies and staff training, extension of the date for the submission of PTP action plans to
meet GOI factory effluent standards, and cancellation of US$ 15.5 million. Vehicle procurement was
eventually canceled on request from the GOI because of the difficulties of procurement under the
Bank's LCB procedures and lack of counterpart funding, especially considering that only 30% of the
cost was eligible for financing. Working capital component for the new factories for supplies, raw
materials and labor was found unnecesary, and therefore canceled. The loan was subsequently
4 Under the revised program, one new factory (Kalianta) was replaced with another of similar size and design (Tanjung Medan)



-6 -
extended a second time to September 30, 1995 to accommodate the construction program which had
been delayed at the beginning of project implementation, and again because of changes in the
number of required processing facilities and the locations of construction sites. The third extension
of the loan (to September 30, 1996) was necessary, in part due to delays in processing the second
extension and, as such, was justified to complete the construction program.
17.   The changes in project scope by the mid-term review were justified as they (i) rationalized
the number and location of factory construction/expansion based on revised estimates of crop
production, and thereby avoided costly investments in potentially excess processing capacities; and
(ii) reduced the government's burden of paying commitment charges on undisbursed proceeds of the
Bank loan. The three one-year loan extensions also enabled the satisfactory completion of the
revised factory construction targets, factory waste management structures, and of the additional
studies and training activities.
18.   Total project costs at appraisal was estimated at US$180.4 million, with a Bank financing of
US$118.2 million. Total project costs at completion is estimated at US$100.6 million, reflecting the
downsizing of the factory construction component and effects of Rupiah devaluation. Following
three cancellations totalling US$35.76 million, the total Bank loan at loan closing date (September
30, 1996) stood at US$ 82.44 million. Disbursement lags during the first four years were substantial
and at the end of FY93 it stood at over 65% of appraisal estimates. However, disbursements
improved considerably following the mid-term review and subsequent loan cancellations, and at
final closing of the loan (January 30, 1997) 91% of the revised Bank loan was disbursed and the
remaining balance of US$7.35 million was cancelled.
19.   Initially, implementation delays resulted from disagreements among PTPs on the technical
specifications for CPO factories. Delays were also experienced in the completion of the consultant's
report for the standardization of CPO and rubber factories. This contributed to delays in factory
constructions which were to follow the approved standard design. Nonetheless, the project induced
standardization of plant designs has resulted in cost savings in the installation and maintenance of
plant and machinery. This in turn contributed to achieve the project's objective of improved
productivity and efficiency in the tree crops sector. It may be noted that despite implementation
delays, investment costs per unit of incremental processing capacities was only 7% higher for palm
oil, and 15% lower for rubber than estimated at appraisal. The standardization of factories has also
been adopted by other PTPs thereby extending the benefits of the project.
20.   Delays in the individual factory constructions/expansions were also experienced due to
unsatisfactory performance by some contractors and supervising consultants, as well as the lack of
coordination among the management staff of the civil works contracts. Contractors' weak financial
situation, execerbated by delayed payments by the Government, and poor management capabilities
contributed to the major problems. Completion of contracts in these cases was only possible after
repeated extensions. New CPO factories at Aek Raso, Cot Girek, Sungai Niru, Sungai Lengi and
Bunut required 3 to 4 years to complete compared to the 18-20 month period specified in the
construction contracts. Similarly, the construction of the new CRF factory at Lima Puluh Koto was
also substantially delayed.
21.   The sudden change in Government policy whereby procurement for public sector projects
was no longer exempt from customs duty further contributed to construction delays. Completion of
the Tanjung Medan oil palm factory was delayed by about 4-6 months because of delays in the



- 7 -
importation of boilers due to delays in the processing of the extension of the Bank's loan closing
date. In another case (Bunut CPO construction), the lack of timely coordination by the PTP project
implementation unit caused a delay in processing the contractor's LC application and consequently
delay in the procurement. The uncertainties and confusion over responsibilities resulting from GOI
decision to reorganize and rationalize the 32 PTPs into 14 PTPNs. further exacerbated the
implementation delays.
D. Project Sustainability
22.   All the project factories are located at strategic locations within close proximity of an
adequate number of smallholder producers necessary to provide the raw material throughput to the
factories. Many are also part of PTP estates which further assures a ready supply of throughput. The
availability of crops is also expected to increase with the maturity of large numbers of juvenile trees
in some areas to keep the operations of factories at sustainable production levels. The factories are
well designed and constructed, and therefore, capable of optimum production. Factory management
teams have attained technical abilities and competencies to achieve the performance necessary for
commercial sustainability. Available data indicate that the unit costs of production for most of the
project supported CPO mills and CRFs are substantially lower than the costs at the other non-project
PTP factories. Data for any meaningful comparison of their performances with comparable private
sector entities in Indonesia are not available, but the performance indicators of many of the project
supported factories are comparable to some of the efficient operations in Malaysia.
25.   However, the long-term sustainabilty of the PTPs and their constituent factories will depend
on them being able to sustain the throughput and the processing cost efficiencies achieved under the
project, especially after the smallholders will have completed their loan repayments and will no
longer be obliged to sell their produce to the PTP factories. These could be achieved only if the
public-owned PTPs and the factories were privatized or allowed to operate on strictly commercial
principles and under non-distortionery policy and incentives regimes.  Under the current
arrangements, the PTPs and their constituent factories subject to the Government's fiscal and
administrative controls. There are no incentives to be profit-oriented. Superior performances are not
rewarded and vice versa; revenues from sales are consolidated at the PTPN head offices, and funding
for factory maintenance and operation is provided through budget appropriations, which often are
inadequate. Government policies on privatizing the PTPs and for creating an enabling environment
for increased private sector operation in the tree crops sector remain largely unclear, uncertain and
conflicting (very recently foreign investment in oil palm processing has been banned). As such, ICR
has concluded that the prospects for project sustainabilty is uncertain.
E. Bank Performance
26.   The Bank's participation has been extensive from the initial preparation and appraisal to
supervision of the project. Bank supervision missions were conducted approximately twice a year
(total of 11). The missions were adequately staffed with the expertise necessary to deal effectively
with all the components of the project.  Their reports and reviews were well-written and
comprehensive, and have provided the implementing agencies with timely feed-backs and
recommendations to improve project implementation. The Bank's mid-term review in 1992 led to
some major adjustments in the project scope. Timely cancellations of parts of IBRD loan helped
reduce the Government's commitment charges on undisbursed loan amounts. The Bank also made



- 8 -
an exception in granting a third extension of the loan closing date which indicates the flexibility and
responsiveness of the Bank towards the needs of the GOI and the project.
27.   Nevertheless, during the project design, the Bank should have analyzed the rationale for
public sector resource use in activities of a commercial nature more critically, particularly in view of
the policy impediments to private sector investments, and structured the Bank's support within a
wider policy framework for addressing these constraints. The magnitudes of financial returns to
public sector investments in the factories, as estimated at appraisal, were clear indications of a
potentially favorable incentives regime for private investments in oil palm and rubber processing.
The Bank, therefore, should have paid greater attention to determining the private sector
counterfactual and assessing the extent and causes of any perceived market failure. At the very least,
the Bank should have sought time-bound assurances from the GOI to act on the policy directions
identified in the SAR, including the privatization of the PTPs, and/or designed the project as joint-
venture investments between the PTPs and potential private sector investors. Project appraisal also
inaccurately projected field productions, resulting in over-planning of processing factories, and time
consuming adjustments during project implementation. During appraisal, or subsequently during
supervisions, systematic monitoring of PTPs' financial performance, and monitoring and evaluation
of the progress in achieving the development objectives of the project, should have been instituted.
28.   The Borrower has raised some concerns regarding the bureaucratic process of the Bank,
particularly with regard to the issuance of no objection letters (NOL) from Bank headquarters for
various approvals affecting project implementation. Apparently, there were cases where delays in
communications from the Bank Headquarters in Washington to the Resident Mission in Jakarta
resulted in delays in procurement.
29.   Taking all things into consideration, the performance of the Bank in the identification,
preparation and supervision of the project has been rated as being satisfactory, and project appraisal
as being deficient.
F. Borrower Performance
30.   The overall performance by the Borrower was satisfactory. Adequate funds for the project
implementation were provided on a timely manner.  With the assistance of TKPIR, Project
Implementation Units (PMUs) for all the factory components were established and despite the
delays, the processing facilities have been largely completed. TKPIR also successfully implemented
the diverse and numerous TA components of the project and ensured that all the loan covenants and
conditions required of the Loan Agreement ultimately met with compliance. The GOI through
TKPIR has also established guidelines on processing standards and efficiency as targets for PTP's
achievement.
31.   Except in a few special cases the Borrower was prompt in making procurement decisions.
Although the change in Government policy with regard to the payment of import duties caused
initial procurement delays due to lack of funds which had not been budgeted for this purpose, the
issue was eventually resolved. However, in some cases, there were disputes between contractors, the
PTPs and the supervising consultants over the status of progress made on some factory
constructions. Apparently there was no mechanism to adequately resolve these disputes to the
mutual satisfaction of all parties.



-9-
G. Assessment of Outcome
32.   Despite implementation delays, the project has achieved its major objectives, and the
development impact has been satisfactory. In addition to achieving its specific objectives, as set out
at appraisal, the project has (i) strengthened the institutional and human resources base for further
development in the tree crops sub-sector; (ii) improved awareness for and standards of
environmental management and pollution control in tree crop processing facilities; and (iii)
demonstrated the commercial viability of centralized processing of oil palm and rubber produced by
a large number of smallholders farmers on scattered locations. Notwithstanding these substantial
achievements, the overall outcome of the project has been rated as being only satisfactory, because
of its uncertain sustainabilty.
33.   Financial and economic rates of return were re-calculated for each of the factories
constructed or expanded/rehabilitated under the project. The results have been detailed in Part II,
Annexes A and B. Nine of the ten palm oil mills have ERRs ranging from 20%-45%, while four of
the five crumb rubber factories have ERRs ranging from 21%-45%. The overall economic rate of
return for the project is estimated at 28%, which is lower than the SAR estimates (57%), but still
very satisfactory and robust. Even at the low end of the 70% probabilty range for the projected
commodity prices, it falls to only 19%, well above the opportunity cost of capital (12%) in
Indonesia.Three of the five crumb rubber factories have financial rate of returns of 45%, one 18%,
and one below 10%. For the palm oil mills, FRRs for are above 20%, 10%-20% for six, below 10%
for two. The individual ERRs and FRRs are lower than estimated at appraisal because of: (i) delays
in the construction of the factories; (ii) bulk of project investments in new construction which has
lower return than in rehibiltation/expansion of existing factories; (iii) lower prices of CPO than
projected at appraisal; (iv) higher smallholder FFB prices ( 80% of FOB vs 60% assumed at
appraisal) and (v) higher unit costs of processing in some factories during the initial years of
operation due to lower throughput than estimated at appraisal.
H. Future Operation
34.   The Government's plans for the project's future operation are still emerging and are tied to
the on-going institutional and organizational changes of the PTPs, and strengthening of public sector
advisory and financial services to the smallholders. Although the ICR mission was advised that GOI
would eventually move towards full privatization of the PTPs, particularly of the NES/PIR schemes
and their associated processing facilities, its written contribution to the ICR does not corroborate this
commitment (appendix 3A). Subsequently, GOI has indicated that the question of privatization will
be considered in the context of the preparation of the PTPNs' twenty-five year plans and that some
of the PTPNs are already moving in that direction (Appendix 3B).
35.   The ICR is of the view that early privatization of the PTPNs and its factories holds the key
to efficient operation and commercial viability of these entities. Government's intent in this respect
is embryonic and unceratin, to say the least. Its recent decision to restrict foreign investments on oil
palm processing raises concerns about the Govenment's commitment to fostering private sector
development in the production, processing and marketing of tree crops. The ICR, therefore, has
recommended that (i) Indonesia should move to privatise the PTPNs at an early date; and (ii) until
the principles and modalities for such privatization have been agreed and acted upon, the GOI must
ensure that the institutional, organizational and operational arrangements for the PTPNs do not
hinder the management of the processing factories as commercial entities, competing in a fair and



- 10-
open market for purchasing their raw materials and for disposing their output. Towards these ends,
the plan for the project's future operation should be geared to the following: (i) decentralization of
factory management with each unit operating as a self-financing profit centers; (ii) organization and
management structures that will accord the factories large degrees of control over their respective
finances, particularly over the revenues they generateand the powers to borrow from commercial
sources for working capital and reinvestment finances; (iii) an effective role of the PTPNs'
headquarters to ensure technical support for O&M of the factories, setting and enforcing industry
standards for technical, operational and environmental aspects of factory operations; (iv) the
smallholders to be able to sell their produce to factories and markets of their choice, provided they
do not default in their credit repayment obligations, and (v) removal of any barriers to entry by
private processors.
I. Key Lessons Learned
37.    The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project are listed below:
*      The rationale for public sector investments in enterprises that are commercial in their
operations has to be clearly established, and their private sector counterfactual objectively
assessed. In the event such investments are warranted, they should be undertaken alongside
effective policy measures to remove the constraints to private sector participation in such
activities, and within the framework of a time-bound plan for their privatization.
The scrutiny applied to the selection of contractors should be comprehensive and thorough to
ensure financial and management capabilities. The tenderers' financial situation and track
record should be given more weight in the selection process. Generally, such factors would
be more indicative of the future successful completion and cost-effectiveness of the sub-
project than a lower bid.
The Government should have in place an effective mechanism  for swift resolution of
contractual disputes.
*      Realistic crop forecasts are essential for planning of investments in processing facilities.
*      For projects dealing with commercial entities, financial performance indicators should be
developed and monitored during project supervision.
*      All monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities must start early in the implementation stage
to ensure their full usefulness and continuation beyond the implementation stage of the
project.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXS
ANNEX A. STATISTICAL TABLES



- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives            Substantial      Partial       Neeligible    Not applicable
(00             (V)             (V)             (V)
Macro policies                           D              El                              [ I
Sector policies                         E               E                               El
Financial objectives                    [[]                             El              [I]
Institutional development                               El              El              K]
Physical objectives                                     El              El              El
Poverty reduction                       El                              El              El
Gender issues                           []              El               I ]
Other social objectives                 [I]             El                l 
Environmental objectives                [1                ]              0l              0l
Public sector management                                El              El              El
Private sector development              El              El                              E 
Other (specify)                         EE                              El              E



- 13 -
B. Pr jectsustainability                Likelv              Unlikely            Uncertain
(1)                 (8/)                 (v')
D~   El
Hiw
C. Bank peforae                         satisfactoy        Satisfacv           Defici
Identification                         O                                        El
Preparation assistance                Fl                                        El
Appraisal                             [                    []                   [
Supervision                            E                                        El
Highly
D. Biorrower perforrnance             satisfactor         Satisfactorv          Deficin
Preparation                              ]                   tL
Implementation                        [] EI]
Covenant compliance                   E i                                       El
Operation (if applicable)                l                 El                   [
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessmentofoutcome               satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient   unsatisfactory
El)                         El)           El) 



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Lmnkrea  We                                Pupm                            Approu   Sbhu
Preceding wierdl
1. North Sumat Smnallhokier  To provide an effective agricural extension services;  1973    Conmpeted
Developnew Proect (Credit   inprove prmay processing and marketing faciliies and
358-IND)                    services; train farmers in miproved methods of rubber, oil
paln and nce production; and assist them with the finmane
and inputs requied to plant new land and exstig rubber
farms with these crops.
2. Smallhokler Rubber       To raise the inomes of some 32,000 smallholder         1980     Conpleted
Development Project I (Credit  families; increase Indonesia's foreign exchange earnmgs
984-IND)                    fxom nubber; and build the iuional fiamework and
database for the narional smallholder rubber program.
3. Smallholder Rubber       To expand and mptove the effectiveness of the          1985     Conmleted
Development Project 1I (Loan   Goverrnmet of Ilndonesia's smallholder rubber
2494-ND)                    development project program in order to increase foreign
exchange eanings; create employment and improve the
incomes of rubber smallholders; promote regional
development; and mcrease the producaivity of
underutidzd land.
Foilowng oerain                                                                                        I
1. Tree Crop Smallholder    To assist 161,000 poor farm families establish or maintain  1992  Ongoing
Develpment Project (Loan    130,000 ha of nrbber and 51,000 ha of cocomrts in 12
3464-ND)                    provmces; strengthen project tmanme  to undertake
the project, inchldig implementing its enonmenl
management plan and cost recovery scheme; strengthen
sector institutions in land titling, auditing, monitoring, and
inspection of smallholder project acviies; and provide
for studies related to cost recovery, to a future project,
and to povertv-related a     development.



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned             latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                    April 30, 1986
Preparation                                                                     June 1986
Appraisal                                           AprillMay 1987              June 1987
Negotiations                                                                 July 25 -29, 1988
Letter of development policy (if applicable)             n.a.                      n.a.
Board presentation                                                          November 15, 1988
Signing                                                                      December 2, 1988
Effectiveness                                                                 March 2, 1989
First tranche release (if applicable)                    n.a.                      n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                February 1992
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)       n.a.                      n.a.
Project completion                                  March 31, 1993          September 30, 1996
Loan closing                                       September 30, 1993       September 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96                 FY97
Appraisalestimate          13.0    43.0    67.0    93.0   113.0   118.2   118.2         118.2      118.2
Revised                                                      39.7    39.7    39.7        82.4       82.4
Profile                     1.2      8.2    19.8    34.6    47.8    61.0    72.6         81.6       82.4
Actualas%of Rev.          0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0%   97.5%   129.5%   149.1%     87.6%       91.1%
Actual                      0.2      2.8    19.3    30.5    38.7    51.4    59.2         72.2       75.1
Date of final disbursement       January30, 1997



- 16 -
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
New Construction/Expansion/Rehabilitation of Palm Oil Mills
SAR              Revision         ImDlemented
Program       PTP      Unit   Capacity    Unit   Capacity    Un*t   Capacity
(tons/hr)          (tons/hr)          (tons/hr)
A.  New Construction
1.  Aek Raso         III       1        30        1         30        1        30
2.  Pinang Tinggi    IV        1        60         1        60        1        60
(Sei Bahar I)
3.  Bunut            IV        1        30         1        30        1        30
(Sei Bahar II)
4.  Tanjung           IV       -         -         1        30        1        30
Medan
5.  Sei lntan         V        1        30         1        30        1        30
6.  Kalianta          VI       1        30         -         -        -         -
7.  Parndu           VIl       1        30         1        30        1        30
8.  Cot Girek         IX       1        30         1        30        1        30
9.  Sungai Niru       X        1        30         1        30        1        30
(Prabumilah)
10  SungaiLengi       X        1        30         1        30        1        30
(Muara Enim)
Sub-Total    9       300        9        300        9       .300
B.  Expansion
1.  Bagan            IV        1        30         -        -         -         -
Sinembah
2.  Sei lntan         V        1        30         -         -        -
3.  Ngabang          VIl       1        30         -         -        -
4.  Parndu            VIl      1        30         -         -        -
5.  Sungai Niru       X        1        30         -         -        -         -
(Muara Enim)
Sub-Total    5       150        0         0         0        0
Total    14      450        9        300        9       300
C.  Rehabilitation
1   PagarMerbau       IX       -         -         1        60        1        60



- 17 -
Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Planning for the Construction/Expansion/Rehabilitation
of Palm Oil Factories
PTP        SAR         Implemented
A.      New Mill
1. Aek Raso              III      Sept 1990       Sept 1995
2. Pinang Tinggi         IV       Sept 1990       Oct 1991
(Sei Bahar I)
3. Bunut                  IV     June 1992        Sept 1995
(Sei Bahar II)
4. Tanjung Medan          IV                      Nov 1991
5. Sei Intan              V       Sept 1990       Aug 1991
6. Kalianta              VI       Sept 1990           -
7. Parindu               VIl      Sept 1990       Sept 1991
8. Cot Girek             IX      June 1992        Mar 1995
9. Sungai Niru            X       Sept 1990       Oct 1992
(Prabumilah)
10. Sungai Lengi           X       Sept 1990       Mar 1992
(Muara Enim)
B.      Extension
1. Bagan Sinembah         IV      Jan 1992            -
2. Sei Intan              V       Sept 1992           -
3. Ngabang               VIl      Jan 1992            -
4. Parindu               VIl      Sept 1992           -
5. Sungai Niru            X       Sept 1992           -
(Muara Enim)
C.      Rehabilitation
1. Pagar Merbau          IX           -           Sept1995
Closine Dates for TCPP Loan
SAR        30 September 1993
1st extension 30 September 1994
2nd extension 30 September 1995
3rd extension 30 September 1996



- 18 -
Table 5c: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
New Construction/Expansion/Rehabilitation of Crumb Rubber Factories
SAR              Revision         Implemented
Program       PTP      Unit  Incr.Cap.   Unit  Incr.Cap.   Unit  Incr.Cap.
(tons/day)         (tons/day)        (tons/day)
A.  New Construction
1.  Alue le Mirah     I        1         20        -         -        -         -
2.  Labuhan Batu     II        1         20        -         -        -         -
3.  Rimbo Bujang      V!       1         20        -         -        -         -
4.  Duran Luncuk      VI        1        20        -         -        -         -
5.  Danau Salak      XVIII      1        20        1        40        1        40
6.  Ketahun          XXIII      1        20        -         -        -         -
7.  Tanjung         XXVI       1         10        -         -        -         -
Santan/Kaltim
8.  Lima Puluh       III        -         -        1        20        1        20
KotoI
9.  Sembawa          BP         -         -        1        10        1        10
Sub-Total    7        130        3        70        3        70
B.  Expansion
1.  Alue le Mirah     I        1         20        -         -        -         -
2.  Bajubang          IV        -         -        1        30        1        30
3.  Binio            IV    |              -        1        10        1        10
4.  BukitSelasih     IV         1        20        1        30        1        30
5.  Danau Salak      XVIII     1         20        -         -        -         -
6. | Rimbo Bujang     Xi        1        20        -         -        -         -
Sub-Total    4         80        3        70        3        70
Total    11       210        6       140        6       140



- 19 -
Table 5d: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Planning for the Construction/Expansion/Rehabilitation
of Crumb Rubber Factories
PTP         SAR           Implemented
A.       New Construction
1. Danau Salak             XVIII     Mar 1992          Dec 1993
2. Lima Puluh Koto          III   l_ __           |_   May 1995
3. Sembawa                  BP   T                     Dec 1993
B.      Expansion
'. Bajubang                IV   T___             |_   May 1996
2.  Binio                   IV   l_#_             |_   April 1995
3. 1 Bukit Selasih          IV       Jan 1992          May 1996
Revised and included in Mid-term Review - 1991
Closine Dates for TCPP Loan
SAR         30 September 1993
1st extension  30 September 1994
2nd extension  30 September 1995
3rd extension  30 September 1996



Table 6a: Key Indicators for Project Operation - Palm Oil Mills
Factory Perfonnance                 Product Oualit      Press        Envinment                Connodity
Palm Oil Mill                                                                         Cost #      Protection             Prices (FOB)
Through-    Extraction      Extraction     % Free      Marketing     Rp/Kg         GOI                 Rp Million/on
put       Efficiency       Rates          Fatty     Specifica-     FFB        Compliance            (Constant 1996)
Acid        tionsI
tons/br    CPO    PK     CPO      PK                                                              CPO              PK
BunAut    SAR            30   93%    95%   21.00/o  4.5%    Max 5.0%/o   To comnply           18       to comply            1.17             0.52
Actual         28   91%    86%   21.5%    4.90/o        4.5%                         -          notyet            0.98            0.73
Pinang    SAR            60   93%    95%   21.0%    4.5%    Max 5.00/o   Tocomply             18       to comply            1.17            0.52
Tinggi    Actual         47   91%    90%   21.00/o  5.8%          4.1%          Yes           15        complied            0.98            0.73
Sungai   SAR             30   93%    95%   21.0%    4.5%    Max 5.0%0   To comply             18       to comply            1.17            0.52
Niru      Actual         28   92%    87%   24.0%    5.4%          5.2%          Yes           29        complied            0.98            0.73
Sungai   SAR             30   93%    95%   21.0%/o  4.5%    Max 5.0%    To comply             na      to comply             1.17            0.52
Lengi
Actal          27   92%    91%   22.6%    5.1%          4.2%          Yes           na       complied             0.98            0.73
Sei       SAR            30   93%    95%   21.0%/o  4.5%    Max 5.0%    To comnply           18      to comply             1.17            0.52
hiun      Actual         28   92%    87%   21.1%    4.7%          3.9/o         Yes           69       complied             0.98            0.73
Parindu   SAR            30   93%    95%   21.0%    4.5%    Max 5.00/%   To comply            18       to comply            1.17            0.52
Actual         28   92%         -  21.2%    5.1%        3.0%                        14    not inspected          0.98             0.73
Aek       SAR            30   93%    95%   21.00/o  4.5%    Max 5.0%    To comply             18      to comply             1.17            0.52
Rm        Actual         27   900/0   900/o  20.6%    4.6%        4.0%          Yes           20    not inspected          0.98             0.73
Cot       SAR            30   93%    96%   21.00/o  4.5%    Max 5.00/o   Tocomply             18      to comply             1.17            0.52
Girek-                                                      _
Girek  Actual  28   92%    88%   21.8%    5.00/o        3.00/o        Yes          14          not yet           0.98             0.73
Tanjung   SAR            30   93%    96%   210%/o  4.5%    Max 5.0%/                                  to comply             1.17            0.52
Actual                                  Mill on Trial Run                                commissioned            0.98             0.73
Pagar     SAR            60   93%    96%   21.0%    4.5%    Max5.0%    Tocomply               18      to comply             1.17            0.52
M   Actual     40 |90% | 88%  | 20.0% |5.6%  r          3. 0%/o       Yes |         15 -  not jnffiSLd           0.98             0.73
estimated processmg cost detennmed in projecy survey of all PTPs in 1994.



Table 6b: Key Indicators for Project Operation - Crumb Rubber Factories
Production Efficiency                    Enviromnent       Commoditv
Crunb Rubber Factov                   llaput                                      Operating Cost      Protection       Prices (FOB)
tons dry rubber per day       % Failure        Rp/Kg dry rubber    GOI compliance   Rp Million/ton
(Constant 1996)
Lima Puluh Koto CRF (new)  SAR              20                          NIL                       103*    effluent treatment          2.89
Actua             16            80%           NU,                       286                yes             3.38
Danau Salak CRF (new)        SAR                                                                     103*    effluent treatment          2.89
A-ftW                     not yet available                                                yes             3.38
Sembawa Pilot CRF            SAR                                                                                                        2.89
Research Center
Acftua                                                                                                     3.38
Bajubang (expansion)         SAR               40                          NIL                       103*    effluent treatment          2.89
Acual             20            50%           1.4%                      180                yes             3.38
Binio (expansion)            SAR               20                       Not available                103*    effluent treatment          2.89
Actual            12            600/o                                   320           upgraded             3.38
Bukit Selasih (expansion)    SAR               40                          NIL                       103*    effluent treatment         2.89
ACtual            24            600/o         NIL                       190           upgaded              3.38
* esiated operaing costs estimated in the SAR for project were Rp 103/kg and widxto  project, Rp 182/kg.
Average operating costs detenined in project surveys of all PTPs conducted in 1994 were Rp 220/kg diy rubber.



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
No.             Study                            Purpose                  Consulting Agencies       Status         Impact Of Study
1           ~      ~~2                         3                             4                   5                  6
POLICY AND NON TECHNICAL  To evaluate the financial viability                                             Formalised standard
STUDIES                     assessment of PTPs for new project                                            guidelines on accounting
1. Financial Evaluation of 10 PTPs  investment, identify weaknesses and make                                for PTPs' financial
a. 4 PTPs (XVII, XXIV-V, XXVIII, recommendations, as well as review other   SGV & Co, Philipine  Completed 6/90   accounts.
XXIX)                     areas for attention.
b. 6 PTPs (Il, Ill, V, VII, VIII, IX)                              ADS Pte. Ud, Singapore  Completed 6/90
2. Factory Design Standardization                                                                            Standardisation
a. Rubber Factory            To select and standardize design      PT. Encona Indonesia/   Completed 10/89  incorporated in all project
capacity factories including processing  ARAB/Mardec                         mills and rubber factories.
b. CPO Factory               equipment and lay out, bulding design  Sime Darby Service,   Completed 6/90   Facilitates tender
on the grounds of simplicity of con-     Malaysia                            process and documenta-
struction, operation and maintenance;                                        tion as standards
and capable of producing good quality                                       are applied. Prompt
product at high efficiency, low operating                                    evaluation of bidders and
costs and cost effective investment.                                         accuracy in comparisons.
3. Rubber Marekting in Indonesia   (i)  to evaluate the long term trends for    Landell Mill Commodities Completed 5/90   Provided valuable
domestic and intemational demand    Ltd., England                       information for project
for the different types and grades of                                   viability study. Provided
rubber now produced or which could                                      market trends and
be produced in Indonesia,                                               products' scope and
(ii) to review the current marketing                                        standards.
channels,
(iii) to evaluate the potential profitability
for each type and grade of rubber
(iv) to indicate possible marketing
strategies for GOI.



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
No.             Study                            Purpose                  Consulting Agencies       Status         Impact Of Study
2                                3                              4                   5                  6
4. Long Terms Requirements of    To determine the long term requirement  HVA Intemational,   Completed 6/93   Provided guidelines for
Rubber and Palm Oil Processing  for rubber and palm oil factories in  Netherlands                         the formulation of
Facilities in Indonesia      Indonesia in order to plan the systematic                                    subsector policy.
development of the processing sub-
sector.
5. Pollution Control Requirements  (i)  Assessment of the current status of    PT. Exsa Int. Indonesia/  Completed 4/91  Improvements in PTP
for existing PTP-CPO and          effluent treatment in Existing PTP  Kosuftant Proses Sdn.               mills in achieving
Rubber Factories                  CRFs/CPO and their possible       Bhd., Malaysia                        compliance of GOI
impact on the environment status                                        standards. Guidelines for
around the factory sites.                                               formulating control
(ii) Selection of most appropriate                                           systems and
treatment/method for effluent                                           requirements of national
discharge of PTP CRFs/CPO                                               standards for palm oil and
including in-plant processing                                           rubber waste disposal.
improvements design capacity
factories including processing
improvements to reduce the effluent
pollution loads with consequent
reduction in treatment cost.
(iii) Estimation of preliminary
investment and operating cost for
the proposed treatment system
including a cost benefit analysis.
6. Pollution Control Requirements  To conduct environmental studies and  Biotim/Mardec Eng.  Completed 5/94   Useful guidelines and
of PTPs Existing Sugar      recommend methods for pollution control for Sdn.Bhd., Malaysia                technical input for
Factories                   sugar factories.                                                              implementation.
7. Establishment of PMCA System  To formulate and set up BAPEDAL in North  Mac Donald Agriculture   Completed 1991  Provided useful
in North Sumatra and West   Sumatra and West Kalimantan.           Services, England                      guidelines to Prov. Govls.
Kalimantan                                ___                                                             and Central BAPEDAL.



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
No.             Study                            Purpose                  Consulting Agencies       Status          Impact Of Study
2                                3                              4                   5                  6
8. Implementation of PMCA System To formulate an effective management  Mac Donald Agriculture                Generated improved
in North Sumatra and        system for pollution control in these selected  Services, England             commitment and
West Kalimantan              provinces where most of the mills are                              9/94      participation. Remarkable
- Stage I                    located.                                                          11/95      improvement in treated
- Stage II (Extension)                                                                                    effluent disposal.
9. Sembawa CRF Amdal Studies   Feasibility study of a pilot plant to conduct   PT. Indeco Duta Utama    Completed 2/95  CRF process to
studies for improv. to crumb rubber process. Indonesia                       overcome s-holder prob.
10. Extemal Review of LPP       To study the viability for setting up training   ADS Pte. Ltd,  Completed 7/95  LPP staff given training on
program to be undertaken by LPP.      Singapore                              milling technology.
11. Feasibility Study of Lhokseumawe To conduct feasibility study for a CPO bulking PT. Tr Karya Pecindo,    Completed 1994
Bulking Installation        installation at Lhokseumave, Aceh.     Indonesia
II.  TECHNICAL STUDIES           To study and recommend the economic                                           Stopped incineration of
1. Palm Oil                    beneft of using empty fruit bunches in estate                                 EFB to eliminate air
a. Utilization of Empty Bunches as fields. To explore methods and equipment for BPP Medan/RISPA  Completed 3/94  pollution. Monitoring
Fertilizers and others    effluent testing. In-depth study of the                                       resulted in increased
b. Determination of CPO Effluent characteristics and providing market  BPP Medan/RISPA     Completed 4/93  awareness of effluents.
Monitoring using Simple Tests specifications.                                                           Provided useful info. for
c. CPO and PKO Characteristics.                                    BPP Medan/RISPA         Completed 3/94  marketing products.
2. Rubbe                       a) Survey of present methods, analyse and                                    a) Used guidelines for
a. Improvement of Rubber     recommend improvements in collection.  BPP Sungai Putih       Completed 4/93  setting requirements in
Collecting Practices      b) Review existing methods, analyse and                                       pilot CRF plant.
b. Introduction of Appropriate DR recommend updated methods for prompt    BPP Bogor        Completed 6/93  b) new methods
Detefmination Method      DRC testing.                                                                 introduced in PTPs.
c. Semi industrials on all stages  c) Formulate scope of trials to improve  BPP Sembawa    Completed 9/95  c) Scheduled for
of Processing by Using    product quality caused by poor quality raw                                   implementation in pilot
Pilot CRF                 rubber.                                                                      factory.
d. Rubber Effluent Monitoring    d) To study and recommend suitable effluent BPP Tanjung Morawa  Completed 4/93  d) Implementation
treatment systems.                                                           reduced pollution from
_____  _______________  _______  ______              _______  rubber factory  discharge.



- 25 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                Local      Foreign
Component              costs      costs      Total      costs       costs      Total
1. Processing Facilities
Factories                     28.7        53.4       82.1       20.2        47.2       67.4
Housing                       11.5         3.8       15.3        2.0         4.5        6.5
Vehicles                       3.2        12.7       15.9           -          -
Tech. Assistance/Training     11.2         7.1       18.3                    9.5        9.5
niial Working Capital          6.8         0.8        7.6           -          -
Other Civil Works                -           -          -         1.0        2.4        3.4
Subtotal                61.4        77.8      139.2       23.2        63.6       86.8
2. Project Support
Environmental Protection       0.8         1.2        2.0           -        3.6        3.6
Tech. Assistance/Training      0.9         2.5        3.4           -        7.0        7.0
Studies                        0.8         1.6        2.4           -        3.2        3.2
Start-up Fuds                  0.5         2.5        3.0           -          -
Subtotal                 3.0         7.8       10.8          -        13.8       13.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS              64.4        85.6      150.0       23.2        77.4      100.6
Physical Contingencies             3.8          6.4      10.2           -          -
Price Contingencies                10.7         9.5      20.2           -           -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             78.9       101.5      180.4       23.2        77.4      100.6
Interest During Construction      40.0         18.6      58.6           -          -
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIRED                 118.9       120.1     239.0        23.2       77.4      100.6
* for effluent treatment
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Source               costs      costs      Total       costs        costs      Total
IBRD                                18.5      99.7      118.2          30.8       44.3      75.1
Japan Grant Facility                   -        1.8       1.8             -         1.8      1.8
2 State Commercial Banks            80.1      18.6       98.7          10.4        7.9      18.3
12 Government-owned Estate
Companies (PTPs)                    19.6         -       19.6           2.8        2.1      4.9
Government of Indonesia              0.7         -        0.7           0.5          -      0.5
TOTAL                   118.9      120.1     239.0          44.5        56.1    100.6



- 26 -
Table 9a: Summary of ERR and FRR
(Base Case)
Crude Palm Oil Mills and Crumb Rubber Factories
SAR                 ICR
Program             PTP     PTPN
FIRR     EIRR      FIRR      EIRR
A. ! Crude Palm Oil Mills
1.  I AekRaso                             III    26%       62%       11%       26%
2.   Pinang Tinggi                IV       VI      23%      69%       26%       43%
(Sei Bahar I)
3.   Bunut                       IV        VI      19%      81%        9%       22%
(Sei Bahar II)
4.   Tanjung Medan               IV        V        -         -       13%       25%
5.   Sei Intan                    V        V       199%     60%        4%       21%
6.   Parindu                     VIl      Xiii    17%       70%    1 23%        45%
7.   Cot Girek                    IX        I      18%      53%       11%       23%
8.   Sungai Niru                  X       VIl    24%        65%       13%       26%
(Prabumilah)                                                  I
9.   Sungai Lengi                 X       VIl    24%        65%    t 10%        19%
(Muara Enim)                                        _
10.  Pagar Merbau                 IX      11                          19%       21%
B.   Crumb Rubber Factories
1.   Danau Salak                XVIII     XiII    100%      21%    | 18%        21%
2.   Lima Puluh Koto             III       VI       -         -        6%        8%
3.   Bajubang                     IV       VI            |         | 46%        45%
4.   Binio                       IV        V        -         -       45%       30%
5.   Bukit Selasih               IV        V      392%  j  129%       45%       42%
Total Pro3ect EIRR                      57%         |       28%       j



- 27 -
Table 9b: Sensitivity Analysis
(Price)
Crude Palm Oil Mills and Crumb Rubber Factories
Low End of Ranqe  Hiah end of Range
Program            PTP      PTPN
FIRR     EIRR      FIRR      EIRR
A.   Crude Palm Oil Mills
1.   Aek Raso                    III      III     neg.      17%       23%       35%
2.   Pinang Tinggi               IV        VI     19%       40%       32%       47%
(Sei Bahar I)
3.   Bunut                       IV       VI      -9%       10%       24%       36%
(Sei Bahar II)
4.   Tanjung Medan               IV        V      -4%       13%       27%       40%
5.   Sei Intan                    V        V      -9%       14%       13%       28%
6.   Parindu                     VIl      Xiii    13%       42%       31%       50%
7.   Cot Girek                   IX        I      neg.      15%       24%       33%
8.   Sungai Niru                  X       VIl      1%       21%       21%       33%
(Prabumilah)
9.   Sungai Lengi                 X       VI!    -2%        13%       18%       26%
(Muara Enim)                                       I          I        I
10.  Pagar Merbau                IX       11    -11%        -2%       38%      40%
B.   Crumb Rubber Factories
1.   Danau Salak                XVIII     XiII    3%        11%       24%      26%
2.   Lima Puluh Koto             III       VI     -6%       -1%       11%       12%
3.   Bajubang                    IV       VI      14%       14%       59%       58%
4.   Binio                       IV        V      27%       9%        53%       38%
5.   Bukit Selasih               IV        V      16%       15%       56%       53%
Total Project EIRR                      19%                 37%



- 28 -
Table 9c: Sensitivity Analysis (Cost and and Capacity Utilization)
Crude Palm Oil Mills and Crumb Rubber Factories
Financial Internal Rate of Return
Program            PTP      PTPN    Cost    Cost        Util.     Util.
<25%     >25%      < 5%      <10%
A.  Crude Palm Oil Mills
1.   Aek Raso                             III    14%       8%        3%        neg.
2.   Pinang Tinggi              IV        VI     27%       24%       22%       16%
(Sei Bahar I)            _
3.   Bunut                       IV       VI      12%      5%        1%       -13%
(Sei Bahar II)
4.   Tanjung Medan              IV        V       15%      10%       6%        -7%
5.   Sei lntan                   V        V       6%        1%       -2%      -13%
6.   Parindu                     VIl     XiII    25%       21%       18%       neg.
7.   Cot Girek                  IX         I      13%      7%        1%        neg.
8.   Sungai Niru                 X        VIl    15%       11%       8%        -3%
(Prabumilah)
9.   Sungai Lengi                X        Vll    12%       8%        5%        -6%
(Muara Enim)                                                          I         |
10.  Pagar Merbau               IX        11    31%        4%        neg.      neg.
B.  Crumb Rubber Factories
1.   Danau Salak                XVIII    Xlii    21%       15%       3%        neg.
2.   Lima Puluh Koto            liI       VI      8%        3%      -5%        neg.
3.   Bajubang                   IV        VI     55%       37%       11%       neg.
4.   Binio                       IV       V       57%      30%       neg.      neg.
5.   Bukit Selasih               IV       V       52%      37%       18%       neg.



- 29 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Indonesia
Tree Crop processing Project
Original
Covenant   Present   fulfillment                          Description of
Agreement   Section      Class      status      date                               covenant
Article III   3.01        13,01       C                   Borrower to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and provide required funds, facilities, services and other resources.
3.03       13,01       C                   Borrower to enter or cause to be entered fmancingagreements,
subsidiary Loan Agreements, and CreditAgreements satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.04        9          C        6/30/'93    Borrower to submit by June 30, 1989, action plan for each project
PTP.
3.05        6          C        12/31/90    Borrower to submit by December 31, 1990, action plan for effluent
control for existing factories.
3.06        10         C                   Borrower to recruit and train factory staff for each project PTP and
appoint them at least 6 months prior to commissioning date.
4.01 (a)      3         C                    Borrower to maintain or cause to be maintained adequate records and
accounts in respect of the project.
Borrower to cause each project PTP to take out andmaintain adequate
4.02        5          C                    insurance.
4.03(a)      5          C                    Borrower to cause each project PTP to maintain rights and interest in
land and other as necessaryin the conduct of its business.
4.03 (b)      5         C                    Borrower to cause each project PTP to operate and maintain
installations, equipment and property adequately.
4.04        5          C                   Borrower to cause each PTP to manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position adequately.
Covenant Class:                                                   Present Status:
I Accounts/audit
3 Flow & utilization of Project funds                             C = Covenant complied with
5. Management aspects;
6 Environment Covenants
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
13 other



- 30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
Statement number and title  p            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the project that have not been complied with and/or acted against.



- 31 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                    Actual
Stage of
project cycle          Weeks         US$         Weeks         US$         Weeks       US$'000
Through appraisal              n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        66.9
Appraisal - Board              n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        105.6
Board - effectiveness          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Supervision                    n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        246.7
Completion                     n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         2.5
TOTAL                426.3         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        421.7
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/   Number   Days           Specialized             Performance rating         Types of
of      in          staff skills
project cycle   year    persons   field        represented        Implementation    Development   problems
status        objectives
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision 1     6/89       5        20      TCS, TS, E, A. PE           1               1
Supervision 2     12/89      3        7          TCS, A, PE               1                1
Supervision 3     6/90       4        12       TCS, A, PE, ME             2                1
Supervision 4     3/91       5        19     TCS, TS, AE, A, PE           2               2
Supervision 5     2/92       6        31    TCS,FA,TS, ES, A, PE          2               2             -
Supervision 6     12/92      5        18     TCS, TS, ES, A, PE           2               2             -
Supervision 7     8/93       4        15       TCS, A, PE, ES             2               2             -
Supervision 8     3/94       4        22       TCS, TS, A, PE             2               2             -
Supervision 9     9/94       2        18           TCS, A                 S               HS            -
Supervision 10    6/95       3        17         TCS, A, TS               S               S
Supervision 11    7/95       2        18           TCS, A                 S               S
Completion       02/97       3        1 1       TCS, AE, PE               S               S,
Specialized Staff: TCS=Tree Crop Specialist; TS= Training Specialisit; E= Economist; A=Agriculuralist; AE=
Agriculutral Economist; PE = Processing Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; ES = Environmental Specialit; ME = M&E
Specialist.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX B. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Part a. Palm Oil Mills



- 33 -
Annex B. Part a.
Notes on Financial and Economic Rate of Return Calculations for Oil Palm Mils
(see Tables a.3. I to a.3. 10 - Annex B)
Except for the rehabilitation of the Pagar Merbau 60 ton/hour CPO mill (Table a. 3.10 - Annex
B), there is no without project scenario for palm oil factories. The assumption is that factories
which existed before the project were too far away to transport the FB without spoilage.
1.    FFB Processed. Tonnage for years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported by
PTPs/TKPIR. Tonnage for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from monthly
actuals provided up to June or October 1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond
based on estimates provided by PTPs/TKPIR or projected up to the capacity of the
factory to process.
2.    CPO and Kernel Extraction rates. Expressed as a percentage of CPO/kernel per ton of
FEB. Rates for the years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported by PTPs/TKPIR. Rates
for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from monthly actuals provided up to June
or October 1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond based on estimates provided
by PTPs/TKPIR or calculated from projected FFB tonnage processed and oil/kernel
produced.
3 .    CPO and Kernel Production. Tonnage for years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported
by PTPs/TKPIR. Tonnage for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from monthly
actuals provided up to June or October 1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond
derived from projections of FFB processed and the respective projections on CPO and
Kernel extraction rates.
4.    CPO and Kernel Price Received (see Table a. 1 - Annex B). Expressed in Constant Rp/kg
(1996=100). Prices derived from World Market actuals and projections as reported by
the World Bank, "Commodity Markets in Developing Countries", (August 1996). CPO
price received assumed to constitute approximately 90% of the FOB market price due to
domestic price controls and export taxes. Kernel price received is FOB market price
based on actuals reported by PTPsTKPIR and assumed to be 60% of CPO market price.
5.    CPO and Kernel Revenue Received. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100).
Result derived from the product of CPO and Kernel processed by the respective price
received.
6.    Estate FFB production costs. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100) and
calculated from the proportion of estate FEB production. Assumed that the cost of estate
FFB production is 80% of the FOB palm product value in terms of revenue received.
7.    Smallholder FFB purchases. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100) and calculated
from the proportion of FFB production purchased from smallholders. Calculations based
on smallholder FFB pricing formula which requires that approximately 70% of the FOB
palm product value be paid by the factory for purchase of smallholders' FFB.



- 34 -
Annex B. Part a.
8.    Processing costs. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100). Result derived from the
product of unit cost of processing (Rp/kg) and the total amount of FFB processed. Unit
costs for the years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported by PTPslTKPIR. Unit costs
for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from actuals provided up to June or October
1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond based on standards necessary for
efficient and cost-effective operation.
9.    Marketing costs. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996= 100). Result derived from the
product of unit cost of transport and marketing (Rp/kg) and the total amount of palm
products processed. Unit costs for the years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported by
PTPs/TKPIR. Unit costs for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from actuals
provided up to June or October 1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond based
on standards necessary for efficient and cost-effective operation. Provision for PTP Head
Office overhead costs included.
10.   Investment costs. Actuals as reported by PTPs/TKPIR and expressed in Constant Rp
million (1996=100). Projected replacements of machinery and equipment as shown on
Tables a.2.1 and a.2.2 (Annex B).
I1.   Economic value of production. Based on same calculations as for the financial rate of
return except that the CPO price is the world market FOB price (not discounted for the
effect of domestic price controls and export taxes).
12.   Economic investment and operating costs. As in the SAR, conversion factor of 0.85
applied to investment costs and operating costs of processing and marketing.
13.   Support training and consultancy. General training and consultancy costs (including
environmental support) funded under the non-credit/support component of the project
apportioned on the basis of weighted average by respective factory investment cost.
14.   Financial and Economic IRR. Base Case (See Table 9a - Annex A).
15.   Pagar Merbau. (see Table a.3.10 - Annex B). Rehabilitation of 60 ton/hr CPO mill.
Without project costs and benefits based on actuals to 1995. With project costs and
benefits in 1995 based on actuals; in 1996 estimated from monthly actuals to June; 1997
and beyond projected on standards necessary for efficient and cost-effective operations.
16.   Price Sensitivity. (See Table 9b - Annex A). Low end and high end prices derived from
World Market 700/o probability distribution as reported by the World Bank, "Commodity
Markets in Developing Countries", (August 1996). Prices to 1995, actuals applied; for
1996 and beyond, low end and high end of 70% distribution range applied respectively.
17. Sensitivity to processing costs and changes in capacity utilisation. (See Table 9b - Annex
A). Processing costs to 1995, actuals applied; for 1996 and beyond, 25% decrease and
25% increase in estimated/projected processing costs applied respectively. Factory
throughput to 1995, actuals applied; for 1996 and beyond, 5% and 10% decrease in
factory throughput applied respectively.



Table a.1 CPO and Kemel Price Calculations
#             CPO - Actuai      #                    PO - CIF Europe         CFO-FOBJKT                        CPO- FOBJKT                  CPO Rec'd                Kemel - FOR JKT
CIF Europ  Base    Low    High    MUV    MUV    Base    Low    High    Base    Low    High  Exch.Rat  Base           Low      High     Base     Low       High     Base     Low      High
(90 S/ton) (S/ton)  (S/ton)  (S/ton) '90.100 '96=100 (96 S/ton)(96 S/ton)(96 S/ton)(96 S/ton)(96 S/ton)(96 S/ton) (Rp/S) (96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)
1985     730    501                    68.61   57.89     865                     820
1986     613    459                    74.89   63.19     726                     681                                                                                     305
1987     513     417                   81.17   68.48    608                      563                    1,639     923                         831                        357
1988     428    374                    87.44   73.78     507                     462                    1,660     768                         691                        480
1989     354    332                    93.72   79.08     420                     375                    1,758     659                         593                        434
1990     290    290                   100.00   84.37     344                     299                    1,855     554                         499                        255
1991     335     342                  102.23   86.26     396                     351                    1,953     686                         618                        433
1992     369     394                  106.64   89.98     438                     393                   2,014      791                         712                        524
1993     355    378                   106.33   89.71     421                     376                   2,074      781                         702                        384                      U
1994     479    528                   110.21   92.99    568                      523                   2,163    1,131                       1,018                        574
1995     545     628                  115.18   97.18    646                      601                   2,252    1,354                       1,219                        617
1996     430     510    460    635  118.52  100.00       510    460      635     465     415     590   2,341    1,089      972    1,381       980      874    1,243      731      583       829
1997     380     460    370    630  120.91  102.02    451        363     618     406    318      573   2,341      950      744    1,340       855      669    1,206      570      446       804
1998     360    445    345    635  123.48  104.18    427    331          609    382      286     564   2,341      895      670    1,321       805      603    1,189      537      402       793
1999     342     433    320      633  126.37  106.62     406    300      593    361      255     548   2,341      844      596    1,283       760      537    1,155      507      358       770
2000     325    420    294    630  129.26  109.06        385    270      578     340     225     533   2,341      796      526    1,247       717      473    1,122      478       315      748
2001     319    423                   132.27  111.60    379    266       569     334     221     524   2,341      781      517    1,227       703      466    1,104      469      310       736
2002     314    425                   135.28  114.14    373    262       560     328     217     515   2,341      767      508    1,207       690      457    1,086      460      305       724
2003     309    428                   138.29  116.68    367    258       552    322      213     507   2,341      753      499    1,186       678      449    1,067      452      299       712
2004     305     430                  141.30  119.22     361     254     543     316     209     498   2,341      740      489    1,165       666      440    1,049      444      294       699
2005     300    433                   144.31  121.76     356    250    534    311        205     489   2,341      727      480    1,145       654      432    1,030      436      288       687
2006                                                     356    250      534    311      205     489   2,341      727      480    1,145       654      432    1,030      436      288       687
2007                                                     356    250    534    311        205     489   2,341      727      480    1,145       654      432    1,030      436      288       687
2008                                                     356    250    534    311        205     489   2,341      727      480    1,145       654      432    1,030      436      268       687
2009                                                     356    250      534    311      205     489   2,341      727      480    1,145       654      432    1,030      436      288       687
2010                                                     356    250    534       311     205     489   2,341      727      480    1,145       654      432    1,030      436      288       687
1 World Bank. 'Commodity Markets in Developing Countries, (August 1996)



PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX B. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Part b. Rubber Factories



- 37 -
Annex B. Part b.
Notes on Financial and Economic Rate of Return Calculations for Rubber Factories
(see Tables b.3.1 to b.3.5 - Annex B)
There is no without project scenario for Danau Salak (40 tons/day) and Lima Puluh Koto (20
tons/day) CRF factories (see tables b.3.1 and b.3.2 - Annex B). The assumption in these cases
is that factories which existed before the project were too far away for transport of raw materials.
I1.    Dry Rubber Processed. Tonnage for years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported by
PTPs/TKPIR. Tonnage for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from monthly
actuals provided up to June or October 1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond
based on estimates provided by PTPs/TKPIR or projected up to the capacity of the
factory to process.
2.    Price Received (see Table b. 1 - Annex B). Expressed in Constant Rp/kg DRC
(1996=100). Prices derived from World Market actuals and projections as reported by
the World Bank, "Commodity Markets in Developing Countries", (August 1996).
Without project price received based on actuals to 1995; for 1996, estimated from
monthly actuals to June or October; for 1997 and beyond, projected for SIR 10/20
(assumed at a discount of 10% from RSS-1 FOB, Jakarta). With project price received
based on actuals to 1995 and monthly estimates to June or October for 1996; for 1997
and beyond, projected for RSS-1 FOB, Jakarta.
3.    Revenue Received. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100). Result derived from
the product of dry rubber processed by the price received.
4.    Estate costs. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100) and calculated from the
proportion of estate rubber production. Assumed that the cost of estate estate production
is 80% of the FOB product value in terms of revenue received.
5.    Smallholder purchases. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100) and calculated
from the proportion of rubber production purchased from smallholders. Purchases to
1995 based on actuals; for 1996, estimated from montly actuals to June or October; for
1997 and beyond, assumed that the price paid is approximately 80% of the FOB product
value in terms of revenue received.
6.    Processing costs. Expressed in ConstantRp million (1996=100). Result derived from the
product of unit cost of processing (Rp/kg) and the total amount of dry rubber processed.
Unit costs for the years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported by PTPsfIKPIR. Unit
costs for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from actuals provided up to June or
October 1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond based on standards necessary
for efficient and cost-effective operation.



- 38 -
Annex B. Part b.
7.    Marketing costs. Expressed in Constant Rp million (1996=100). Result derived from the
product of unit cost of transport and marketing (Rp/kg) and the total amount of rubber
products processed. Unit costs for the years 1990 to 1995 based on actuals reported by
PTPs/TKPIR. Unit costs for the year 1996 based on estimates derived from actuals
provided up to June or October 1996. Projections for the years 1997 and beyond based
on standards necessary for efficient and cost-effective operation. Provision for PTP Head
Office overhead costs included.
8.    Investment costs. Actuals as reported by PTPs/TKPIR and expressed in Constant Rp
million (1996=100). Projected replacements of machinery and equipment as shown on
Tables b.2.1, b.2.2 and b.2.2.3 (Annex B).
9.    Economic value of production. Same as amounts shown in revenue received.
10.   Economic investment and operating costs. As in the SAR, conversion factor of 0.85
applied to investment costs and operating costs of processing and marketing.
11.   Support training and consultancy. General training and consultancy costs (including
environmental support) funded under the non-credit/support component of the project
apportioned on the basis of weighted average by respective factory investment cost.
12.   Financial and Economic IRR. Base Case (See Table 9a - Annex A).
13.   Expansion Factories. (see Tables b.3.3, b.3.4 and b.3.5 - Annex B). Without project
costs based on actuals to 1995. With project costs in 1995 based on actuals; in 1996
estimated from monthly actuals to June; 1997 and beyond projected on standards
necessary for efficient and cost-effective operations.
14.   Price Sensitivity. (See Table 9b - Annex A). Low end and high end prices derived from
World Market 70% probability distribution as reported by the World Bank, "Commodity
Markets in Developing Countries", (August 1996). Prices to 1995, actuals applied; for
1996 and beyond, low end and high end of 70% distribution range applied respectively.
15.   Sensitivity to processing costs and changes in capacity utilisation. (See Table 9b - Annex
A). Processing costs to 1995, actuals applied; for 1996 and beyond, 25% decrease and
25% increase in estimated/projected processing costs applied respectively. Factory
throughput to 1995, actuals applied; for 1996 and beyond, 5% and 10% decrease in
factory throughput applied respectively.



Table b.1 Rubber Price Calculations
Rubber - Actual                      Rubber - CIF EuropeF RSS-1 FOB JKT                         RS1FOBJIT                 SIR 10/20 FOB JKT
CIF Europ  Base    Low    High    MUV    MUV    Base    Low    High    Base    Low    High  Exch.Rat  Base          Low      High    Base      Low      High
('90 c/kg) (c/kg)  (c/kg)  (c/kg) '90=100 '96=100 (96 c/kg) (96 c/kg) (96 c/kg) (96 c/kg) (96 c/kg) (96 c/kg) (Rp/$) (96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)(96 Rp/Kg)
1985    111      76                    68.61   57.89    131                     121
1986     104     78                    74.89   63.19    123                     113
1987      99     80                    81.17   68.48    117                     107                    1,639    1,751                      2,033
1988     94      82                    87.44   73.78    111                     101                    1,660    1,679                      2,255
1989      90      84                   93.72   79.08    106                      96                    1,758    1,692                      1,709
1990      86      86                  100.00   84.37    102                      92                    1,855    1,705                      1,581
1991      84      86                  102.23   86.26    100                      90                    1,953    1,752                      1,722
1992     81       86                  106.64   89.98     96                      86                   2,014    1,724                       1,686
1993     78       83                  106.33   89.71     93                      83                   2,074    1,711                       1,879
1994     103     113                  110.21   92.99    122                     112                   2,163    2,412                       2,077
1995     137     158                  115.18   97.18    163                     153                   2,252    3,436                       2,970
1996    121      144     133    156  118.52  100.00    144    133    156    134    123    146   2,341    3,137    2,879    3,418    3,046    2,591    3,076
1997     118    143      115    168  120.91  102.02    140    113    165    130    103    155   2,341    3,047    2,405    3,621    2,743    2,164    3,259
1998     114    141      110    169  123.48  104.18    135    106    162    125          96    152   2,341    2,934    2,238    3,563    2,641    2,014    3,207
1999     112    142      107    171  126.37  106.62    133    100    160    123          90    150   2,341    2,884    2,104    3,509    2,595    1,894    3,158
2000     111     143     103    172  129.26  109.06    131       94     158    121       84    148   2,341    2,835    1,977    3,458    2,552    1,779    3,112
2001     112    148                   132.27  111.60    133      95    160    123        85    150   2,341    2,875    1,995    3,512    2,587    1,795    3,160
2002     113    153                   135.28  114.14    134      96    162    124        86    152   2,341    2,912    2,023    3,558    2,621    1,820    3,202
2003     115    159                   138.29  116.68    136      98    164    126        88    154   2,341    2,948    2,051    3,605    2,653    1,846    3,245
2004     116    164                   141.30  119.22    137      99    166    127        89    156   2,341    2,982    2,079    3,652    2,684    1,871    3,287
2005     117    169                   144.31  121.76    139    100    168    129         90    158   2,341    3,015    2,107    3,699    2,714    1,896    3,329
2006                                                    139    100    168    129         90    158   2,341    3,015    2,107    3,699    2,714    1,896    3,329
2007                                                    139    100    168    129         90    158   2,341    3,015    2,107    3,699    2,714    1,896    3,329
2008                                                    139    100    168    129         90    158   2,341    3,015    2,107    3,699    2,714    1,896    3,329
2009                                                    139    100    168    129         90    158   2,341    3,015    2,107    3,699    2,714    1,896    3,329
2010                                                    139    100    168    129         90    158   2,341    3,015    2,107    3,699    2,714    1,896    3,329
1 World Bank, "Commodity Markets in Developing Countries", (August 1996)



APPENDIX I
AIDE MEMOIRE



- 41 -
Indonesia - Tree Crops Processing Project (Loan 3000-1ND)
Preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    An FAO (CP) mission consisting of consultants, Mr Dennis Ellingson (Economist/
Management Specialist) and Mr Lee Yew Foong (Oil Palm/Rubber Processing Specialist) visited
Indonesia from 4 to 22 November 1996 to carry out the final supervision and prepare an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tree Crops Processing Project (Loan 3000-
IND). Mr Osman Farruk (EA3AG), Task Manager, participated in the mission and was
responsible for overall guidance and coordination of mission activities. Mr Soemardjo (EA3RS)
provided back-up support and information required for the work of the mission.
2.    Following initial discussions with staff of TKPIR, the mission visited the construction sites
of several palm oil and rubber factories in southern, central and northern Sumatra.' During this
time the mission also held discussions with the management and technical staff of these factories
and with head office staff of some PTPNs. This Aide Memoire summarises the findings and
recommendations of the mission, and discussions at a wrap-up meeting with GOI officials on
November 21, 1996 which was chaired by Mr Nogoseno, Director of Planning (DGE). The
niission's recommendations are subject to confirmation by Bank management in Washington D.C.
The mission wishes to thank TKPIR, and staff of the factories and PTPNs visited, for the excellent
arrangements made for the field visits and the warm hospitality and cooperation extended.
PROJECT BACKGROUND
3.    The Tree Crop Processing Project (TCPP) was approved on November 11, 1988 for a
total loan amount of US$118.2 million with total project costs estimated at US$180.4 million.
Co-financing was also provided for the funding of technical assistance in the form of a grant of
JPY240 million from the Japanese government.
4.    The Loan Agreement was signed on December 2, 1988 and became effective on March
2, 1989. The original closing date was September 30, 1993. Following the February 1992 mid-
term review, the closing date was extended by one year to September 30, 1994. Subsequently,
as the result of further reviews in 1994 and 1995, it was granted two more one-year extensions
to September 30, 1995 and finally to September 30, 1996 which was the third and final extension.
The reviews also resulted in adjustments to the project scope, among others, including: (a)
cancellation of some factories due to downward revisions in crop projections, relocation of two
rubber factories and the construction of an additional new palm oil factory; (b) additional studies
and training activities; and (c ) cancellation of loan savings amounting to US$35.8 million in total.
The mission was informed that a further undisbursed amount of US$7-8 million will be cancelled.
The mission also advised GOI that all reimbursement claims for eligible expenditure must be
submitted to the Bank prior to January 31, 1997.
1 A detailed technical report of the factory visits was given to TKPIR at the wrap-up meeting for
distribution to the relevant PTPNs.



- 42 -
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The main objectives of the TCPP were to raise the productivity and efficiency of the tree
crop subsector, safeguard smallholder and estate incomes, and increase non-oil exports by
providing essential processing facilities and addressing technical, institutional and marketing
constraints on factory efficiency. The original project scope consisted of: (a) Processing Facilities
(credit component) for the construction and/or expansion of PTP processing facilities including
11 crumb rubber factories (CRF) and 14 crude palm oil (CPO) factories with vehicles, training
of PTP and factory staff, technical assistance and working capital; and (b) Project Support (non-
credit component) for environmental protection, monitoring and evaluation, training of DGE staff
and tree crop subsector related agencies' personnel, studies and start-up funds.
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    The physical implementation of the project has been satisfactory and despite the initial and
subsequent delays in project implementation, the revised targets have been achieved. As of the
loan closing date on September 30, 1996 eight new CPO factories have been completed and are
in operation. The 9th, at Tanjung Medan, is expected to be operational by December, 1996. The
completion of these factories represents an increased oil palm fresh fruit bunches (FEB)
processing capacity of 300 tons/hour. The rehabilitation of the 60 tons/hr Pagar Merbau CPO
factory has also been completed. Under the revised scope of the project, three new rubber
factories have been completed including a crumb rubber pilot plant at Sembawa and three existing
crumb rubber factories (CRF) have been expanded. These CRF factory construction/expansions
represent an increased dry rubber processing capacity of 150 tons/day. Although the increased
throughput capacity created with the project was less than envisaged at appraisal (projected at
450 FFB tons/lhr and 220 dry rubber tons/day), given the reduced investment cost, the unit costs
to create the increased capacity was also lower.
7.    Besides creating increased processing capacity, the project has achieved its major objective
of raising the productivity and efficiency of the tree crop subsector. In addition to providing
processing and marketing outlets for the raw materials produced by smallholders and estates of
the NES/PIR projects, in some cases, these facilities have also benefitted other plantations not
initially associated with the project. Factory efficiencies have also improved, with CPO extraction
rates in most of the existing PTP palm oil factories increasing by as much as 1-2% to a range of
19.5% to 23.5% (overall 22% average). The new project funded factories also showed
remarkable oil extraction achievements of2l% to 24% compared to SAR estimates of21%. This
and improved factory throughput, particularly by the 30 tons/hr CPO mills, can be attributed to
the technical assistance, training and M&E activities carried out under the project. Project
induced standardisation of factory design has also resulted in cost savings in the installation and
maintenance of plant and machinery further indicating achievement of the productivity/efficiency
objective.



- 43 -
8.    Another major objective of the project was to safeguard smallholder and estate incomes.
TCPP has achieved this objective through providing assured access to processing facilities, in
many instances, in areas which hitherto had no such facilities. For example, the CPO factory at
Tanjung Medan will provide the only processing facilities for smallholders in a radius of 150 miles.
The two CPO factories at Sei Bahar I and II (Pinang Tinggi and Bunut) are the only such facilities
in Jambi province which has a large population of smallholder oil palm growers. Altogether the
increased processing capacity created under the project will provide continued benefits to some
65,000 smallholder oil palm and rubber growers. The current standard of factory management
is good and, in some cases, close to optimum production levels have been reported. The adequate
standard of these facilities, provided continued good management, should ensure that processing
and marketing outlets for the raw materials produced by both estates and smallholders is easily
and cheaply accessible in the long term.
9.    The third major objective of increased non-oil exports has also been achieved by the
project.2 The incremental processing capacity at full development will provide for annual
incremental production of 330,000 tons of palm oil, 75,000 tons of palm kernel and 40,500 tons
of rubber. At current market prices, this increased production is equivalent to nearly US$200
million, approximately 8.5% of the value of exports of these two commodities in 1990.
10.   World palm oil production is rising at a rate of about 1 million tons or 5% p.a. which is
the fastest growth of all vegetable oil supplies. Indonesia's increased production accounts for
approximately half of this increase in world supplies. World demand for vegetable oils is also
expected to improve in the future with a projected increase of 1.4 million tons in 1996/97 and
continued strong import demand, particularly by China which alone accounts for more than half
of the total increase in world imports of vegetable oils. Palm oil production is expected to cover
the bulk of the increase in world import demand and with the rise in production will account for
approximately two-fifths of the world total import demand for all vegetable oils. The world
export prospects for rubber are also good, especially given the fall in estate production in
Malaysia where total production has contracted since mid-1995. By contrast, despite recent
softening of prices, Indonesian production increases have been steady and consistent at about
2.1% growth p.a. The TCPP provides the increased processing capacity to further strengthen
Indonesia's position in the world export markets for CPO and rubber.
11.   The project has also achieved significant improvements in the standard of waste
management at project factory sites as well as at other PTP factories not directly associated with
the project. The implementation of PMCA I and PMCA II on environment protection has also
contributed to the success as well as the strengthening of pollution monitoring capabilities in
North Sumatra and West Kalimantan provinces. All the factories financed under the project have
installed effluent treatment systems and, though all are not yet in compliance with the standards
set by GOI, it is expected that all will be in the near future.3
2 In recent years most of the CPO produced in Indonesia has been reflned and consumed locally.
Never-the-less, the savings of foreign exchange through import substitution would be approximately
equivalent to the foreign exchange earnings if it was exported instead.
3Mechanical works for the effluent treatment system have yet to be installed at the Bunut Mill.



- 44 -
Altogether the project has made a remarkable impact on existing PTP factories' effluent and
pollution control. Whereas before the project none of the PTP factories were in compliance with
the national standards, by the end of 1994, 68% were in compliance. It is envisaged that with
increased awareness and further realisation of the benefits of properly managed effluent control,
100% compliance is possible within the next few years.
12.   Achievements in institutional development have also been satisfactory, especially with
regard to the proper and efficient management of the factories. This was achieved through the
training and technical assistance which has provided a pool of trained and widely exposed
managerial and technical manpower upon which the factories must rely for efficient operations.
13.   International palm oil and rubber processing consultants were recruited and stationed at
each of the PTP headquarters with the role of reviewing and improving the efficiency of existing
PTP factories and advising management on the construction of new factories. The project also
provided 6 consultants to strengthen TKPIR's technical capacity. The consultancies have been
satisfactory and they have contributed to project implementation, particularly in the improvement
of the existing PTP factory performance which previously was reported as unsatisfactory.
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS OF BANK LOAN
14.   As of October 28, 1996 total loan disbursements amounted to US$73 million or 82.6%
of the total revised loan amount. The mission was not provided with a breakdown of project
costs and financing by their constituent component. However, preliminary calculations by major
project category are shown on the following table.
Estimated Project Costs           Local Costs    Foreign Costs   |     Total
@ October 28,1996               l            l
1. Processing Facilities
Factory and Housing             14,946,406         34,874,947         49,821,353
Effluent Treatment Plants        7,789,244          1,465,738          2,254,982
Technical Assistance/Training  _                    9,149,804          9,149,804
2. Project Support
I Technical Assistance/Traiing                      11,513,353         11,513,353
3. Special Account
Special Account                                      330,770            330,770
TOTAL      15,735,649        57,334,613         73,070,262
% of Total     21.50%             78.50%            100.00%



- 45 -
15.   The mission requested that TKPIR provide the actual disbursements and project costs, by
their constituent component, by the end of November 1996 so that they can be incorporated into
the final ICR.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TBE PROJECT
16.   As mentioned above, project implementation was behind schedule from the onset and
further delays during its course resulted in the need for three one-year extensions of the loan
closing date to enable the project to be completed satisfactorily. Initially, implementation delays
resulted from disagreements among PTPs on the technical specifications for CPO factories
urgently required in some areas. This was eventually resolved but not before the construction of
these 5 'urgent' factories were delayed by approximately one year. Delays were also experienced
in the completion of the consultant's report for the standardisation of CPO and rubber factories
which subsequently resulted in a delay in construction of factories which were to be constructed
according to the approved standard design.
17.   Once construction commenced there were also delays in many of the individual factory
constructions/expansions caused by the less than satisfactory performance by some contractors
and supervising consultants, as well as the lack of coordination between all the parties involved
in the management of the construction contracts. New CPO factories at Aek Raso, Cot Girek,
Sungai Niru, Sungai Linggi and Bunut required 3 to 4 years to complete compared to the 18-20
month period specified in the construction contracts.
18.   Initially, there were delays in the importation of machinery and equipment due to the
change in Government policy whereby procurement for public sector projects was no longer
exempt from customs duty. There was also at least one case (boilers for Tanjung Medan) where
the delay in officially approving the loan closing date extension resulted in the expiry of the LC
which subsequently had to be reapplied for and renewed causing even further delays in the
procurement of these items. In another case (Bunut CPO construction) the lack of support for
the contractor's LC application resulted in the procurement delay for the required equipment.
There were also changes in the number of processing facilities required as well as the locations
of construction sites which resulted in delays in overall project implementation.
19.   Many of the above-mentioned implementation problems and delays were further
exacerbated with the uncertainties and confusion over responsibilities naturally resulting from GOI
decision to reorganise and rationalise the 32 PTPs into 14 PTPNs, consideration of which started
towards the middle of the project period with the official decision taken in March 1996.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.   All the project factories are located at strategic locations within close proximity of an
adequate number of smallholder producers necessary to provide the raw material throughput to
the factories. Many are also part of PTP estates which further assures a ready supply of
throughput. The availability of crops is also expected to increase with the maturity of large
numbers of juvenile trees in some areas and hence, adequate crops available to keep the factories
operating at optimum production levels.



- 46 -
21.   Medium and long term projections for commodity prices are generally favourable and the
operating margins received by the factories on the processing of raw materials is adequate to
provide for continued profitability. However, in recent times, more private sector facilities are
being established and therefore, PTP factories need to maintain a strictly commercial outlook to
ensure their competitiveness and market share. Prices paid for the raw material purchases, and
other services provided by the factories, must be maintained at competitive levels, especially after
the repayment of loan commitments when smallholders will no longer be obliged to sell their
produce to the PTP factories.4
22.   The prospects of sustainability for the main project components are good as the factories
were well designed and constructed, and capable of optimum production and extraction
efficiencies. They are currently well managed and reasonably efficient with acceptable unit costs
of production. Factory management teams have been trained under the project and now provide
the competence in management and technical abilities to maintain the performance which in most
cases is as good as that of more established major plantation companies. The Factory Monitoring
Database (FMDB) is being incorporated into the management information systems of the PTPNs
to provide better management control in technical areas. To ensure the factories continue to
operate efficiently, continued support from the PTPNs' headquarters, particularly adequate
funding for preventive maintenance, is required. To ensure the full integration of the FMDB and
given the cessation of TKPIR, there may also be a need to establish a functional responsibility for
its implementation at the national level.
BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   The Bank's performance in regard to the project has been extensive and involved not only
during the project's implementation but also during the initial preparation stages when the Bank's
inputs expedited project preparation, appraisal and loan negotiations leading to accelerated loan
effectiveness. During the period of project implementation, Bank supervision missions were
conducted approximately twice yearly (total of 11). The missions were adequately staffed with
the expertise necessary to deal effectively with all the components of the project. Their reports
and reviews were well-written and comprehensive, and have provided the implementing agencies
with timely findings and recommendations to improve the status of project implementation. The
Bank's mid-term review in 1992 which lead to some major adjustments in the project scope, and
its willingness to make an exception with the third loan closing date extension, was indicative of
the flexibility and responsiveness of the Bank towards the needs of the GOI and the project.
24.   The Borrower raised some concerns regarding the bureaucratic process of the Bank,
particularly with regard to the issuance of no objection letters (NOL) from Bank headquarters for
various approvals affecting project implementation. The mission took this concern into
consideration but was provided with no quantitative evidence to substantiate it.
4 The prices paid for smallholder fresh fruit bunches is calculated according to a formula which is
adjusted periodically. A review of the formula is underway to revise it to ensure that smallholders are
receiving a fair price for their produce.



- 47 -
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   The performance by the borrower was good. Adequate funds for the implementation of
project were provided on a timely basis. With the assistance of TKPIR, Project Implementation
Units (PMUs) for all the factory components were established and despite the delays, the
processing facilities have been largely completed as a result.  TKPIR also successfully
implemented the diverse and numerous TA components of the project and ensured that all the
loan covenants and conditions required of the Loan Agreement ultimately met with compliance.
The GOI through TKPIR has also established guidelines on processing standards and efficiency
as targets for PTPN's achievement. The development of the factory monitoring data base
(FMDB) system for monitoring and management control of the technical performance of the
factories was another good achievement.
26.   Except in a few special cases the borrower was prompt in making procurement decisions.
Although the change in Government policy with regard to the payment of import duties caused
initial procurement delays due to lack of funds which had not been budgeted for this purpose, this
issue was eventually resolved. However, in some cases, there were disputes between contractors
the PTPs and the supervising consultants over the status of progress made on some factories'
construction. Apparently there was no mechanism to adequately resolve these disputes to the
mutual satisfaction of all parties.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   Generally the assessment of the TCPP was positive as it achieved its objectives of raising
the productivity and efficiency of the tree crops subsector; it has safeguarded estate and
smaflholder incomes; and it has provided the increased production to increase non-oil exports if
the Government chose to export rather than consume the products locally. At the time of project
implementation, there were no private sector processing facilities in the proximity of smallholders
whose produce, without the factories constructed or expanded by the project, would have been
wasted or their value decreased by high transport costs to deliver the produce to distant facilities.
Rather than interfering with the establishment of private enterprise, the project has actually
demonstrated that processing of smallholder produce can be a profitable enterprise. However,
so as not to interfere with private sector development in the future, GOI must ensure that the
policy framework is neutral to public and private sector development.
28.   The quantitative assessment of the project outcome relies to a large extent on the financial
and economic rates of return which would be re-calculated utilising actual costs and benefits over
the period of project implementation. These and new estimates of future projections which, given
more precise knowledge from the experience gained to date on the project, should be more
accurate that those estimated in the SAR. The actual data to perform the IRR re-calculations has
been difficult to obtain partly due to the reorganisation of the PTPs and the transfer of files and
individuals with institutional knowledge about a particular factory to new PTPNs. Never-the-less,
by reconstructing some of the missing data and re-calculating the rates of return for several
factories, it appears that for CPO factories at least, financial retums will be high. This is largely
due to the much higher world market prices for palm products which have been experienced in
recent years and the reduced investment costs for factory construction and expansion compared
to those estimated in the SAR. Similarly, the economic returns to the Indonesian economy from
the project should be quite acceptable. However, without actual data for the period of project
implementation and future projections based on the operational plans of the PTPNs, it is difficult



- 43 -
to calculate and specify the IRRs with a high degree of confidence. Therefore, the mission
requested that TKPIR provide the missing data to the mission by the end of November 1996 so
that it could be incorporated into the final ICR report.5
FUTURE OPERATION
29.   The GOI agencies involved in the project were undergoing institutional and organisational
changes which, in other circumstances, could represent a threat to the ongoing operations of
project components. However, in this case, the main components are commercial with the ability
of self-financing and therefore, no public sector funding will be required for their continued
operations.
30.   The reorganisation of the PTPs into PTPNs is currently in a transition phase which has
resulted in some confusion over respective responsibilities and mis-communications. Ultimately
the rationalisation of NES/PIR sites in the same proximity under the direction of the same PTPN
will be good for the subsector as it should provide for greater economies and cost-effectiveness.
Never-the-less, PTPNs must recognise the commercial nature of processing and marketing and
move to become even more efficient in this regard. A major step in this direction would be full
profit-center management and control of the factories. Currently, revenue from sales of factory
produce is consolidated at the PTPN head office. Funding for factory maintenance and operation
is achieved through budget requisitions. However, the factory organisational structure is such
that in cases where there is an associated estate, such requests are vetted by the Estate Manager
who, in times of tight liquidity with conflicting requirements, is likely to favour the plantation's
needs to the detriment of the factory. Given the completely separate and commercial nature of
factory operations, an organisation and management structure where the factory has more control
over its finances would be preferable. Ultimately, as a full profit center, it should have financial
control over the revenue it generates and, with its own asset base and balance sheet, the capability
to approach commercial banks for working capital and re-investments. Such a change in the
management and financial operation of the factories would also place them in a better position for
future privatisation.
31.   Although a plan of future operations was not provided to the mission, GOI's intentions
in this regard were elaborated upon at length during the wrap-up meeting. The mission requested
GOI to provide its detailed plan of future operations by the end of December 1996 so that it can
be included in the final ICR_ Briefly, as discussed in the meeting, the plan is to move towards full
privatisation of the PTPNs, particularly the NES/PIR schemes and their associated processing
facilities. However, this would not be an open tender as the intention is for smallholders
associated with the project to gain an equity shareholding in it. The mission learned that there are
several cases where bids have been made by the participating farmers' cooperatives to buy out the
assets of the PTPN in the area serving their farmers. The GOI is considering this method for
privatisation and the mission fully supported the initiative. However, the GOI went on to express
its concept for the future of the NES/PIR schemes as being that of self-contained entities where
the raw material supplies for the factory operations are assured mainly from associated farmers'
produce throughout a 25 year project cycle. The mission expressed concern at this concept as
it would appear to keep the smallholders captive to the needs of the factory regardless of the
5 A format for the provision of the data was provided by the mission and this fornat should be
utilised in this regard.



- 49 -
standard of services and prices paid for the farmers' produce. The mission emphasised that the
factories must be competitive in a fair and open market and, if not, smaliholders should be allowed
to sell their product wherever they can receive the highest return.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The key lessons learnt from the implementation of the project are listed below:
*     In special circumstances, strategic public sector investments can help maintain producer
incentives and demonstrate the viability of investments by the private sector. However,
they need to be planned and implemented according to a definite timeframe which calls
for their early privatisation and deregulation of the environment so as not to interfere with
private sector enterprise.
*     Public sector technical and training activities can result in a high calibre of technical and
management staff comparable to the capabilities of private sector management and
technical operations.
*     For projects with major construction components, engineering design and technical
specifications should be prepared in advance and finalised as part of the preparation phase
of the project so as not to cause delays in implementation.
7      lThe scrutiny applied to the selection of contractors should be comprehensive and
thorough to ensure financial and management capabilities. The tenderers' financial
situation and track record should be given more weight in the selection process.
Generally, such factors would be more indicative of the fature successful completion and
cost-effectiveness of the sub-project than a low bid.
*     These factories have demonstrated that compliance of BAPEDAL standards of pollution
control are practically achievable provided the system is well designed and constructed,
and training/awareness is provided for management and technical staff to gain an
appreciation of the benefits of effective effluent treatment.
M&E activities must start early in the implementation stage to ensure their full usefulness
and continuation beyond the implementation stage of the project.
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
33.   The mission requested GOI to provide its own evaluation report on the project together
with the operational plan by December 31, 1996.
M. Osman Farruk (EA3AG)  Dennis Ellingson (FAO/CP)        Lee Yew Foong (FAO/CP)
Task Manager               Economist/Management           Oil      Palm/Rubber
Specialist                    Processing Specialist



APPENDIX II
A: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
B: Letter from the Borrower



- 51 -
Appendix III A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT (TCPP)
(LOAN 3000-IND)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    INTRODUCTION
The Tree Crop Processing Project (TCPP) was assisted by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). The motivation behind such funding by the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) and the IBRD, was to provide additional processing capacity for
crude palm oil (CPO) and rubber for the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) Development
Projects whether such NES Projects were jointly financed by GOI and IBRD or by GOI alone.
Viewed in this light the TCPP may be considered as the tail end requirements of the NES
Projects.
2.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1    The main objectives of the TCPP were: (i) to raise the productivity and efficiency of the
tree crop sub-sector; (ii) to safeguard smallholder and estate incomes; (iii) to increase non-oil
exports by providing essential processing facilities and addressing environmental issues and
technical, institutional, marketing and policy constraints on factory efficiency.
2.2    These project objectives were highly challenging as well as very demanding not only to
the Special Team for Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects (TKPIR) who had responsibility
for project coordination but also to the Government-owned Estate Crop Enterprises or PTPs as
implementing agencies for the factory component in order to respond to the issues faced by The
Tree Crop Subsector especially the need for additional processing capacity and improvement of
processing efficiency in the existing NES/PIR projects being managed by PTPs.
2.3    These objectives did not change during project implementation but the project scope
particularly with regard to the credit component, the number of CPO factories and Crumb
Rubber factories (CRF) to be constructed/expanded were revised from 15 (450 ton FFB/hr) to 9
(300 ton FFB/hr) and 12 (220 dry rubber ton/day) to 6 (140 dry rubber ton/day) respectively.
More attention was addressed to the improvement of factory processing efficiencies.
This reduction was primarily caused by the difference between projections and actual field
production. This could have been addressed during the feasibility and appraisal stage of the
project. This can therefore be considered a shortcoming. The reduction of the loan amount from
US$ 118.2 Million at start of Loan compared to the latest revised estimates in the last
amendment to Loan No. 3000 - IND of US$ 82.4 Million was sizeable.
2.4    The non-credit component did not change from the original concept except that during
implementation adjustments had to be made to adapt to the situation at such time.



- 52 -
3.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    Overall, the project has substantially achieved its objectives. The project favorably
created additional processing capacity of 300 ton FFB/hr and 140 ton dry rubber/day, increased
processing efficiencies of PTPs existing factories, improved factory standard on waste
management, contributed to the increase of non-oil export and improved standards of factory
management.
3.2    The project has also produce standard factory design and specification for CPO and
Rubber (CRF) which was not only used by PTPs as project implementing agencies but also other
PTPs and Private sector enterprises. Furthermore, the project has established standard factory
processing efficiency for CPO and Rubber, and Factory Monitoring Data Base (FMDB) System
including effluent treatment.
3.3    A total of 1,379 persons including 23 Master Degree had been successfully trained in
various disciplines and subject training which provided contribution for the improvement of the
factory processing management and efficiency, the awareness of environmental issues,
monitoring and evaluation and improvements to overall competence of DGE, LPP and other
government agencies including certain PTPs.
3.4    The Project has also contributed for the preparation and strengthening of pollution
monitoring capabilities in the provinces of North Sumatra and West Kalimantan.
4.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
4.1    The Loan Agreement was signed on December 22, 1988, became effective in early
March 1989, and after having extended for three years closed on September 30, 1996. During its
first two years of project implementation, the progress of the project particularly with regard to
the construction of CPO urgent mills were very slow. This was due to the complexity of the
procurement process, starting from the placement of Headquarters and Supervision Consultants
as a condition of loan disbursement, length of period consumed in reaching the agreement on the
technical specifications, long process of bidding including selection of the winning bidder,
delays in completion of the construction of two CPO Mills (S.Lengi and S.Niru) because of weak
performance of the contractors and cancellation of one CPO Mill at Kalianta as result of the GOI
decision to hand-over the Kalianta Estate to the private sector.
Even some factors that affected the project implementation had been minimized, however there
were several factors that still affected implementation performance thereafter, i.e. (i) difference
between projections and actual field production, financial constraints of certain PTPs, selling of
smallholders' products to private processors near the project locations and different decisions in
selecting the contractor between GOI and IBRD (for construction of Durian Luncuk rubber
factory) resulted in the reduction of the numbers of factories to be constructed/ expanded; and
(ii) certain technical specifications and drawings were still subject to discussions, disputes arose
between all parties involved in the management of construction contracts caused by insufficient
inputs of Supervision Consultants, weak performance of some contractors and late payment
made to the contractors, resulted in delays of completion of the construction of certain factories
and low disbursement of loan.



- 53 -
4.2    Based on the agreed revised project scope, the actual total project costs were USD. 101
million or only 55% from the original project cost and the disbursement of loan up to end of
January 1997 will only achieve USD. 75.09 millions or 91% of the latest loan allocation or 64%
of the original loan allocation.
5.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The project has put in place the construction of processing facilities and the mechanism
to ensure effective factory processing. This process of transformation could backside if the
institutional framework established through the project is not pushed through in the future.
Continued support will be required if this achievements will not tapper off or backside even if
the institutionalizing elements of TCPP are continued but not at a constant and regular tempo. It
now remains to the PTPNs to be responsive to the result of the project or they will be at risk of
losing the advantages provided for under the project for sustained development.
6.    BANK PERFORMANCE
In general, the Bank's performance was considered satisfactorily. The Bank Supervision
Mission which have been held twice a year was very helpful to the project implementing
agencies since it provided findings and recommendations for smooth project implementation.
The mid-term review carried out by the Bank in 1992 also provided good response in
accommodating the executing agency/implementing agencies proposals. However, there were
constraints on the time consumed in issuing the Bank no objection letter for all stages of
procurement process. This was because the approval were issued by The Bank Headquarters in
Washington which indirectly affected slow progress of projected implementation and
disbursement of loan.
7.  BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
The Borrower is in compliance with all loan covenants. On the whole, the performance
of various agencies of the Borrower was satisfactory. Nonetheless, there were certain instances
where improvements could have been instituted, such as, the period of time to process proposed
loan amendments and the funding by the State Commercial Banks concerned in accordance with
the relevant provisions of the Credit Agreements.
8.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The overall assessment of meeting the project objectives has been generally presented in
the previous paragraphs. The possibility of sustainability is likely.
Nonetheless constraints are to be addressed. From the prespective of meeting objectives and
sustainability, the assessment of project outcome is satisfactory.
9.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The following are the key lessons learned from project preparation to implementation.



- 54 -
1.    Realistic field production projections is a must in order to avoid unnecessary funding
which later on be cancelled due to lower actual field production.
2.    All aspects of project preparation be based on relaistic and practical plans for
implementation taking into account the relevant constraints of the situation.
3.    Continuing the professionalization of PTPNs personnel should be performed from hiring
up to implementation of various personnel actions. This is in order to assure the continued
effectiveness and efficiency of PTPNs discharge of their various functions. Professionalization
should include specialization when called for.
4.    Any system to be introduced should be thoroughly thought out and realistic/practical
programs formulated.
5.    Complex construction works should have standard technical specifications and drawings
to help in improving the quality of construction. Corollary to this, contractors and consultants
should be scrutinized as to capabilities and strict enforcement of terms and conditions of tender
documents be applied.
6.    Pari Passu as a method of payment results in delays of releasing of funds. Previous
payment schemes in NES Projects are recommended to be followed for future projects.
7.    Placements of Headquarters and Supervision Consultants as a condition of loan
disbursement results in delays of loan disbursements.
FUTURE OPERATIONAL PLAN
The major features of the future operations for the TCPP are as follows:
A.    TRAINING ASPECTS
I.     Continue the training of factory personnel from the Factory Manager up to the
skilled workers. Without this training the factory efficiency may deteriorate. The Estate
Crops Training Institute (Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan) should formulate together
with the reorganized PTPs now called PTPNs concerned such training program for the
succeeding year. The training may take the form of refresher training, upgrading
training, hands-on training, training on factory management and supervision, training of
laboratory personnel, training of maintenance factory personnel and others depending on
training needs analyses. When training by entities other than LPP is suggested the
management/coordination of such factory personnel training be performed by LPP as
this is a role of LPP.
2.      Continuing the training of factory and PTPNs' headquarters personnel on the
use, analysis/evaluation of data and management of computers for the Factory
Monitoring Database (FMDB). Certain PTPN computer personnel should be trained as
computer programmers so that any modification of the FMDB can be performed by then.



- 55 -
B.      ORGANIZATIONAL ASPECTS
3.     Delineate the functions between the factory and the field operations in clear
and precise manner.It might be considered that the PTPN management take into account
the autonomous set-up for the factory considering the skills and knowledge required are
different between field production and factory operations.
4.      Aside from training of PTPNs personnel based on each PTPN assessment,
these PTPNs should formulate other approaches and strategies to improve effectiveness,
efficiencies and productivities.
C.      FACTORY ASPECTS
5.     Up-date the standardization of the technical specifications and drawings to be
used for future CPO factory/CRFs contructions/expansions.
6.      Continuing the implementation and improvement of FMDB System.
7.     Evaluate the application of Palm oil and Rubber Processing Standards from
time to time based on technology development including possible automation and
market situation in order to improve the Indonesian National Standard.
D.      OTHERS
8.     Beef-up the capability of factory maintenance operations in order that
downtime is reduced. This should include the up-dating of the inventory control systems
used by the factories.
*ICTPP/97



-.                                        - 56 -
DEPARTEMEN PERTANIAN                     Appendix III B
DIREKTORAT JENDERAL PERKEBUNAN
JI. Let. Jan. S. Parman 73 Slipl                                  Telp.  5347220 Hunting System
Jakarta 11410                                                     Telex  43497 DITJBUN IA
Kotak Poe 1060/JKT, 10010                                         Fax.  021-5347191, 5484493, 5347193
Ref. No. :KL.400/h .208/03,97                              Jakarta, March 2, 1997
Mr. Gershon Feder
Chief. Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region,
The World Bank                                           L66S1 T C 8IW
1818 H. Street N.W.
Washington DC. 20433, USA.
Dear Mr. Feder,
Tree Crop Processing Project(TCPP-LN.3000-IND)
Draft Implementation Completion Report(ICR)
1.    We, acknowledge with thanks, receipt of your February 14, 1997 letter attaching two
copies of the above reference subject.
2.    We believe by now you are aware that we had forwarded the Borrower's contribution to
the ICR. However, we are enclosing the same document for your easy reference.
3.    After reviewing your draft ICR, we concluded that the contents of the report and the
Borrower's contribution are in line with each other on the factual assessment of the said
project, but your presentations are more extensive.
4.    With regard to your issues on the sustainability and future operation for PTPNs and their
NES/PIR projects(page 4/5,6,14 and 15), we have the following comments:
(i)      The re-organization of the PTPs from 32 PTPs to 14 PTPNs was a move to
improve its organizational and structural effectiveness and efficiency in ordel
to enhance the sustainability of their future operations which we believe is
GOI's concern.
(ii)     Another concern of the GOI in relation to the sustainability of the NES/PIR
components was proven by, among others DGE (a) arranging with an Insurance
Company (PT.Bumiputera) for an insurance on the replanting of the
smallholders tree crops on a voluntary basis, (b) providing additional funds
required for maintenance of the smallholders' tree crop including
rehabilitation/upgrading of production and collection roads after conversion. (c)
providing credit liquidity facility of Bank Indonesia for purchasing of fertilizers
required for maintenance of smallholders' tree crops, (d) trained and appointed
Area Development Officers to act as a bridge or facilitator between the Nucleus



- 57 -
2
components in order that both will work jointly as partners, (e) trained
smallholders to develop the farmers economic institutions through the
establishment and operations of farmers' cooperatives, (f) and provided the
smallholders packages of dryland rice seeds for planting in their food crops areas.
(iii)    At present, the said PTPNs are in the process of preparing their twenty-five year
plan for the first time, which should include their visions for their future
operations. Each PTPN has factors to consider which are not the same with one
another, so that they have to operate in their own time frame considering their
present situation, potentials, capabilities, and resources to undertake the
implementation of their twenty-five year plans. The issue of privatization will be
part of the consideration in preparing the said plans which may take into account
the experiences of past privatization of other government-owned enterprises. As
you may be aware, a few of the PTPNs have prepared for privatization which we
expect to be realized in the near future. In this privatization, PTPNs will go public
by selling shares including to the smallholders and/or their cooperatives.
The above in our mind is clear, reasonaby well defined and the direction is certain
5.    We do hope that these comments and the GOI's contribution will be incorporated in the final
ICR.
With kind regards,
~,R T j
Drektorat {/Sincerely yours,
* Jend~erai 
il   Perkeburi.ja
<gtz~,,>'. Rante Tondok, SE
3k_ A,.- irector General of Estates
CC.:
Director, External Monetary Funds,
Ministry of Finance






APPENDIX III
COMPARISON MAP OF PROJECT SITES






IBRD 28473
INDONESIA
TREE CROP PROCESSING PROJECT
A     RUBBER FACTORIES                 -_  RrVERS                                 NC . NEW CONSTRLCT1ON
*    PALM OIL FACTORIES              -       PROVINCE BOU1,OARIES                E. . EXPANSION
o     rR CTES OR TOWNS               -.      INTERNATICLNAL BOCUNDES
NAFLTIONAL CAPITALS
V~"s .r&t      *Er6 'td9   .Vd8W.Ul*                                                                                                                                                                                                                0        100     200      X00      400     5200ro
V_w  .        J1~ V.AoI , /r ro
-6   ,100  -}  ,                                                                                             I'--                                                  ,                      106-                                 112 
-6-                                                                                                                                       6-  -  6-  2                                                                                                                                          6 --
AS PER STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                                 ''d. A oEdh                                            ' '""                        AS IMPLcMENTED
D.IACEH,,                                        BRUNEI                                                                                                                                                  mNe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ON
\DJACEH8*                                                                           Sea                             BRSI*ACAMALAYSIA  S o u t h    c  h i n a    S e a  BRUNEI,  D.l.ACEH  MALAYSIA         S       o u t  C  h i na    S a                       RUNEI
, suMATERA        KUAL, LUMPU-R                                                                                                                                          KUALAWMIPUR
1-                                                                                                                                                                                                   MA~~~~~~~~~'I 
.SKP A2 \ ''.  ''_     !                                 ff-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          ~            ~         ~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA I .'i5   ':-MLAYSIA g                                                                              -
30 8arwO A''5                                               J      -                                K rAUMANATAN                              SUMATERA '       c.                                                                        -           / . J  KALIMANTAN
2~~~~~~~~~IGPR .- -,> /'UAEA 7-3   AGA T           \    ,           rNA           ! _                ts                                                            rSIN         8NGAGAPOrNGHRE
3 I,  3g  4-   sINaAPaao                          ,.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'--?  ~~~~~~~  TIMYR                               UPAR  '                                                                              .               TIMCIR 
3 09&.......wg0cr                                 ).-                           L.*'-i
I    KAoIMANTAti'                    1                                                                 -.U                                                  KALIMANTAN, 0'J
7     ARATMT           /                                        2 'ARAT                                                                                                               "
SUAERAl0 OSRAU-                                                7*ZA047'                                                                                              RA                                      aork>           ~ ' A) M               N    A
KARAT  PorRo'o60  *  >ffA4I   Mitti  At                                                            'el-k--           -.                              -.<    010                           '.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  AN  j
-               6 ZI~                                   -.-       -*   f*                            56I..,tATS .                                                           6                      ~--0
JAMBI A7                gO                                  KUPATAr    /~--CKALIMANTAN                                                                                                                                              I
A 97\  5UMATERA  BA                                         TGA4P...TENGAH
AENTSJlAT \rSERA Q                                   ,                        3                                                                                    ABANC-KA T3                                                         / AWTA
BENGKULM U                                                                                                                                            BESEKIW  X. r                    JW _      S               o                               KALIMANTAN
/              '--3 AWIJEANG SAT
10 05                             ITJOS-'-                                                                                                                                                                            9""
'~~~~~ 'LAMPUNa  Sea~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~;-LMPN
0        '4V SKI D. J. JAKARTA                                                                                                                        S           SK VI JAKARTA                                                           6j
67 XIL6pTVt                                                                            JAWAo,g                                               6' V5'                                                              SAL(ARTA/' LOMgoKJSUMSAWAAWA6 Vl    S i Roler 11  INCI        LOMBOK  SUM3AWA
JAWTA  BRT5.
BUBBBB FACTOBIBS  PALM OIL PACTOBIBS                    1~~~JWA  ARAr a-b             MADUJRA                                         BRUSBIB RACTORIBS                 PALM OIL FACTORIES         IAABAA            aGb                        DP
Ap    XXII           I Y          ec n m                                                                                                             A  X    rmm  sff         N               ANO   N   vFrhmsh  m IC,r A ^__ 
A0 XX91   smnlw,gSoXn           10 XiP    Bmdi                                JAWA1TENOAHPN  SlSA0  WN lG\JAWA TENGAH'
I 1 A06  I.   In    1   III  LoU.r B0- .12 o
-~~~~~~~~~
2I1tV b-M Ar                     vi                                                                                       NU /  WAGGTIA             2 V       AWMd.B3033              II       CoIO.k (NC)                                    ACSA~
1o6ho, BaN   2 IV    ~~~~S.aa                                             - ~JAATMUR             BALI  /SV                                  A.r MOA.k BkN 5666IN    2:,       agi I  N, RAt.) Ig.JW    IU                                               BAI  NUw  TENGGaARA
319  Ba1319                       Bag,aS   ba                                  a-      JA ~  -       -      BALI  MIAT!      J  RAS                     aAag(Ep I              3I W       ob?o B   Ak R-. (NC)                                                    BA /         BARAT  Ba.,,
AN  All                Si t...                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIJ. YOGYAKABTA           /        .0                            UiraPKLR(NC) I                   S..ISgr(NC)                     D\ BAOYAKRT                                          B-., 
6  V1                                                                                                                    .                           S  ixi    Dan. SNok (WCI          5 V       TaNag14.5c (NC)                SI  aIAAT                                     
6m  D-  6Al    P-.6                                                                                                                                      6A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMBI   5Jo~~~    I  5Bia  It rNg Ti.ni (MCNa/fa    UABW
7XII   Si.nln                 7'A VILMOKSMBW                                                                                                                                         7AV    S.B&anII B-.r(NC)(LMO                                                                          UBW
amKl,~ Da      I,, 5LMA                                                                                                                                                                a Vi    MA  E-r, Sc~ L.nggi (NCI
PxEEBi   R.thc                  95         lcrEr                       IN   D   IA   N     O C  EAN                                                                                    PA'    P.ab .. ih, S.,rgN-r(NC)          AD3.                   
IO 026    T-,-,rgO,rO           I (0 5     rMrAI  X!    Pon-d. (NC) 
ITS'                                  1156                                  112'                                  II'                                  13D'                                 106'                                  112'                                  31 B
FEBRUVARf 19









IMAGING
Report No.; 1:z-7
Type:     ICR



