Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3000 IND
                  (Tree Crop Processing Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 2, 1988
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3000 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  2,  1988,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has also  requested the Government of Japan
(Japan) to provide assistance  in  financing  part of the Project,
namely, technical  assistance  for  the  Special  Team for Nucleus
Estate and Smallholder Projects  within the Borrower's Directorate
General of Estates;
     (C)  pursuant  to  a  letter  agreement  dated  June  3, 1987
between Japan and the Bank, Japan  has requested the Bank, and the
Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by
Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported
Page  2
by the Bank  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of such letter
agreement; and
     (D)  Japan has agreed  to  make  available  to the Borrower a
grant (the  Japanese  Grant)  out  of  said  funds  to  assist the
Borrower in carrying out part of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "BBD" means Bank  Bumi  Daya,  established  under Act on
Bank Bumi  Daya  (Act  No.  19  of  year  1968)  and any successor
thereto;
     (b)  "BEII" means  Bank  Ekspor  Impor  Indonesia established
under Act on Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (Act No. 22 of year 1968)
and any successor thereto;
     (c)  "DGE" means the  Directorate  General  of Estates in the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (d)  "Governing Regulation" means any of the Laws, Decrees or
Regulations  referred  to  in  Sections  1.02  (a),  1.02  (b) and
1.02 (g), as well as the  Presidential Decrees Nos. 44 of 1974 and
15 of 1984;
     (e)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (f)  "Project PTP" or "Project  PTPs"  means  any of the PTPs
referred to in Section 1.02 (g);
     (g)  "PTP, means a  Perseroan  Terbatas  Perkebunan, a state-
owned agricultural  enterprise  established  pursuant  to  Law No.
9/1969 of  the  Borrower  and  designated  as  such  by Government
Regulation and any  successor  thereto.  For  the purposes of this
Agreement the following PTPs have been designated by the following
Government Regulations:
          PTP I        No.  7/1981
          PTP III      No.  9/1971
          PTP IV       No. 26/1971
          PTP V        No. 27/1971
          PTP VI       No. 28/1971
          PTP VII      No. 29/1971
          PTP IX       No. 44/1973
          PTP X        No.  1/1979
          PTP XIII     No. 24/1971
Page  3
          PTP XVIII    No. 23/1972
          PTP XXIII    No.  8/1971
          PTP XXVI     No. 64/1971
     (h)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (i)  "State  Commercial  Bank"  means  BBD  or  BEII,  either
individually or collectively as the case may be.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
eighteen million two hundred thousand dollars ($118,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account in Bank Indonesia
on terms and conditions satisfactory  to the Bank.  Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall be September 30, 1993,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
Page  4
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, agricultural, engineering,  environmental and financial
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall  enter  into, or cause to be
entered into, the following  financing arrangements which shall be
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank:
     (a)  Financing  Agreements  between  MOF  and  each  PTP that
receives a portion of the Loan as equity;
     (b)  Subsidiary Loan Agreements  between  MOF,  BBD and BEII,
respectively,  with respect to Loan funds on-lent to BBD and BEII;
and
     (c)  Credit Agreements between BBD  or  BEII, as the case may
be, and the relevant PTP with  respect to all funds for a specific
site, if relevant, on-lent to such PTP.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  prepare,  or  cause to be
prepared, by June 30, 1989,  for  each  Project PTP an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank,  to  improve financial and other aspects
of such PTP.
     Section 3.05.  The  Borrower  shall,  by  December  31, 1990,
furnish, or cause to be  furnished,  to  the Bank, an action plan,
satisfactory to the  Bank,  to  bring  existing PTP factories into
compliance with the Borrower's effluent control regulations.
     Section 3.06.  The  Borrower  shall,  for  each  Project PTP,
select and train the  relevant factory managers, assistant factory
managers and maintenance engineers, and shall appoint such persons
at least six months prior  to  the estimated commissioning date of
the relevant factory.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the  Project,  of the Project PTPs, and
of the departments  or  agencies  of  the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, or
               cause  them  to  be   audited  in  accordance  with
Page  5
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish, or cause to  be  furnished, to the Bank as
               soon as available, but  in  any case not later than
               nine months after the  end  of  each such year, the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank such
               other  information  concerning   said  records  and
               accounts and the  audit  thereof  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit con-
               tains a separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower  shall  cause  each Project PTP to
take out and maintain with  responsible  insurers or to make other
provision satisfactory  to  the  Bank  for  insurance against such
risks and in such amounts  as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause each Project PTP:
     (a)  to take all  steps  necessary  to  acquire, maintain and
renew all such rights  and  interest  in  land  and all such other
rights, powers,  privileges  and  franchises  as  are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business; and
     (b)  at all times to  operate and maintain its installations,
equipment and other property, and promptly as required to make all
necessary repairs and  renewals  thereof,  all  in accordance with
sound agricultural, business and engineering practices.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower  shall  cause  each Project PTP at
all times to manage its  affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its future  expansion  and  carry  on  its operations, all in
accordance  with   sound   agricultural,   business,  engineering,
environmental and financial practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management  and supervisors, assisted by
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  6
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a Governing Regulation  or  any  provision thereof shall
have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied or waived, so as to
affect adversely: (i) the  carrying  out  of the Project; (ii) the
performance by the Borrower of  any other of its obligations under
this Agreement; or (iii) the  performance  by  any party to any of
the arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, of
its respective obligations under such arrangements;
     (b)  any of the arrangements  referred  to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement shall have been terminated or abrogated without the
concurrence of the Bank, or any  party to any such agreement shall
have failed to perform any of  its obligations thereunder so as to
affect  adversely  the  objectives  of  the  Project  or  any part
thereof;
     (c)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment of a Project PTP, or for the suspension of all or
part of the operations of any such Project PTP;
     (d)  a Project PTP shall have been unable to pay its debts as
they mature or  any  action  or  proceeding  shall have been taken
whereby any of its  properties  shall  or may be distributed among
its creditors; and
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii)  of this paragraph the
               right of the Borrower  to  withdraw the proceeds of
               the Japanese Grant  made  to  the  Borrower for the
               financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
               cancelled  or  terminated  in  whole  or  in  part,
               pursuant to the  terms  of  the agreement providing
               therefor.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
               termination is not  caused  by  the  failure of the
               Borrower to perform  any  of  its obligations under
               such agreement;  and  (B)  adequate  funds  for the
               Project are available  to  the  Borrower from other
               sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after  notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
Page  7
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               FINMINISTRY                      44319 DEPKEU-IA
               Jakarta                          45799 DJMLN-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  8
(1)  Factories and                              70%
     housing for
     Part A.1 of the
     Project (rubber)
     (a)  PTP I                  1,530,000
     (b)  PTP III                1,490,000
     (c)  PTP IV
          (i) Air Molek/           760,000
              Riau
         (ii) Bajubang/             50,000
              Jambi
     (d)  PTP VI
        (i)  Rimbo               1,550,000
             Bujang/
             Jambi
       (ii)  Durian              1,430,000
             Luncuk/
             Jambi
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (e)  PTP XIII                 420,000
     (f)  PTP XVIII              2,080,000
     (g)  PTP XXIII              1,490,000
     (h)  PTP XXVI               1,210,000
(2)  Factories,                                 70%
     housing and
     training
     facilities for
     Part A.2 of the
     Project (palm
     oil)
     (a)  PTP III                5,280,000
     (b)  PTP IV
          (i) Sei Bahar/        13,140,000
              Jambi
         (ii) Bagan              2,830,000
              Sinembah/
              Riau
     (c)  PTP V                  8,010,000
     (d)  PTP VI                 5,050,000
     (e)  PTP VII
        (i)  Parindu/            7,880,000
             West
             Kalimantan
       (ii)  Ngabang/            2,710,000
             West
Page  9
             Kalimantan
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (f)  PTP IX                 5,240,000
     (g)  PTP X
          (i) Muara Enim/        8,160,000
              South Sumatra
         (ii) Prabumulih/        5,050,000
              South Sumatra
(3)  For Part A                 18,830,000      100%
     of the Project:
     technical
     assistance
     and training
(4)  Vehicles                    6,200,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures; 95%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost); 65% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(5)  For Part B                  8,000,000
     of the Project:
     technical
     assistance,
     training,
     environmental
     support,
     monitoring
     and evaluation,
     studies and
     project pre-
     paration:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (a)  equipment                             100% of foreign
                                                expenditures;
                                                95% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost); 65% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
     (b)  other                                 100%
(6)  Unallocated                 9,810,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                118,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
Page  10
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect  of: (a) payments made for expen-
ditures  prior  to  the  date   of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $3,000,000, may be made  in  respect  of Categories (2) and (3)
on account of payments made  for expenditures before that date but
after October 31, 1987;
     (b)  expenditures in  respect  of  Categories (1)(a), (1)(b),
(1)(e), (1)(f),  (1)(g)  and  (1)(h)  of  the  table  set forth in
paragraph 1 of this  Schedule  until  the Bank shall have received
evidence, in form and substance  satisfactory  to the Bank: (i) of
the  execution  and  delivery   of:  (A)  the  relevant  Financing
Agreement referred to in Section  3.03 (a) of this Loan Agreement;
(B) the relevant Subsidiary Loan  Agreement referred to in Section
3.03 (b) of  this  Loan  Agreement;  and  (C) the Credit Agreement
referred to in Section 3.03 (c) of this Loan Agreement between the
relevant PTP and a State  Commercial  Bank; and (ii) the following
consultants for the  relevant  PTP  shall  be  in  post: (A) head-
quarters technical assistance, and (B) factory supervision;
     (c)  expenditures in respect of Categories (1)(c)(i) and (ii)
and (1)(d)(i) and (ii) of  the  table  set forth in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule until the  Bank  shall  have been satisfied that all
relevant conditions in paragraph (b) above have been met;
     (d)  expenditures in  respect  of  Categories (2)(a), (2)(c),
(2)(d), and (2)(f) of the table  set  forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule until the Bank shall  have received evidence, in form and
substance satisfactory  to  the  Bank:  (i)  of  the execution and
delivery of: (A) the  relevant  Financing Agreement referred to in
Section  3.03  (a)  of  this  Loan  Agreement;  (B)  the  relevant
Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to  in Section 3.03 (b) of this
Loan Agreement;  and  (C)  the  Credit  Agreement  referred  to in
Section 3.03 (c) of this  Loan  Agreement between the relevant PTP
and a State Commercial  Bank;  (ii)  the following consultants for
the relevant PTP  shall  be  in  post:  (A) headquarters technical
assistance, and (B) factory supervision;
     (e)  expenditures  in  respect  of  Categories  (2)(b)(i) and
(ii), (2)(e)(i) and (ii) and  (2)(g)(i)  and (ii) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of  this  Schedule  until the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all relevant conditions in paragraph (d) above
have been met; and
     (f)  expenditures in  respect  of  Categories (2)(b), (2)(c),
(2)(d), (2)(e), and (2)(g) of  the  table set forth in paragraph 1
of this Schedule until  the  Bank  shall  have been satisfied that
initial implementing actions have been  taken in accordance with a
preliminary action plan for the  relevant PTP, satisfactory to the
Bank, to address any  managerial,  financial, and technical issues
affecting the performance of the relevant PTP.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the Project are to raise the productivity
of the Borrower's tree crop subsector, safeguard farmer and estate
incomes  and  increase  non-oil  exports  by  providing  essential
processing facilities  and  addressing  environmental  issues, and
technical, organizational,  marketing  and  policy  constraints on
factory efficiency.
Page  11
     The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.   (a)  Construction of about  seven  new crumb rubber factories
with a total capacity of about  130 tons/day at the following PTPs
and locations:
     PTP I       at Alue Ie Merah/Aceh
     PTP III     at Labuhan Batu/North Sumatra
     PTP VI      at Rimbo Bujang/Jambi
     PTP VI      at Durian Luncuk/Jambi
     PTP XVIII   at Danau Salak/South Kalimantan
     PTP XXIII   at Ketahun/Bengkulu
     PTP XXVI    at Tanjungsantan/East Kalimantan
     (b)  Expansion of about four  crumb  rubber factories with an
additional capacity of about 80 tons/day at the following PTPs and
locations:
     PTP I       at Alue Ie Merah/Aceh
     PTP IV      at Air Molek/Riau
     PTP VI      at Rimbo Bujang/Jambi
     PTP XVIII   at Danau Salak/South Kalimantan
     (c)  Construction of rubber coagulation centers at PTP XIII -
Sintang/West Kalimantan.
     (d)  Provision of housing, equipment (including rubber drying
equipment at Air Molek/Riau and Bajubang/Jambi), vehicles, working
capital and technical assistance for all of the above.
2.   (a)  Construction of about new  nine crude palm oil factories
with a  total  capacity  of  about  300  tons  fresh fruit bunches
(FFB)/hour at the following PTPs and locations:
     PTP III     Labuhan Batu/North Sumatra
     PTP IV      at Sei Bahar (I)/Jambi
     PTP IV      at Sei Bahar (II)/Jambi
     PTP V       at Sei Intan/Riau
     PTP VI      at Kalianta/Riau
     PTP VII     at Parindu/West Kalimantan
     PTP IX      at Cot Girek/Aceh
     PTP X       at Muara Enim/South Sumatra
     PTP X       at Prabumulih/South Sumatra
     (b)  Expansion of about five crude palm oil factories with an
additional capacity of about  150  tons  FFB/hour at the following
PTPs and locations:
     PTP IV      at Bagan Sinembah/Riau
     PTP V       at Sei Intan/Riau
Page  12
     PTP VII     at Parindu/West Kalimantan
     PTP VII     at Ngabang/West Kalimantan
     PTP X       at Muara Enim/South Sumatra
     (c)  Provision  of  housing,   equipment,  vehicles,  working
capital  and  technical  assistance  for  all  of  the  above, and
training facilities at one of the  new palm oil factories of PTP V
in Riau.
3.   Training of about 850 PTP  staff, mostly on-the-job, but also
short courses, and  some  overseas  training  for selected factory
managers and senior PTP staff.
Part B:
1.   Strengthening the Borrower's capacities, in North Sumatra and
West Kalimantan, to monitor  effluent treatment, plant supervision
and  maintenance,  and  to  collect  data;  and  providing related
technical assistance.
2.   Carrying  out  a  survey  of  each  existing  PTP  processing
facility to determine the  current  status of effluent control and
the investments required to meet the Borrower's standards.
3.   Training staff of  DGE  and  other related agencies including
short-term courses and Masters degree courses.
4.   Carrying out studies:
     (a)  technical studies  to  develop  and  recommend  the most
efficient processing methods for rubber and oil palm;
     (b)  review existing rubber marketing processes and formulate
long-term marketing strategies; and
     (c)  review long-term requirements  for  rubber  and palm oil
factories in the Borrower's  territories,  taking into account the
roles of the public and private sectors.
5.   Strengthening  DGE,  including,   inter  alia,  the  existing
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit  for Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
Projects.
6.   Provision of funds for  the  preparation  of future tree crop
projects, and for the introduction  of new technology in tree crop
processing.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
June 1, 1994                                   2,180,000
December 1, 1994                               2,265,000
June 1, 1995                                   2,350,000
December 1, 1995                               2,440,000
June 1, 1996                                   2,530,000
December 1, 1996                               2,625,000
June 1, 1997                                   2,725,000
December 1, 1997                               2,830,000
June 1, 1998                                   2,940,000
December 1, 1998                               3,050,000
Page  13
June 1, 1999                                   3,165,000
December 1, 1999                               3,285,000
June 1, 2000                                   3,410,000
December 1, 2000                               3,540,000
June 1, 2001                                   3,675,000
December 1, 2001                               3,815,000
June 1, 2002                                   3,960,000
December 1, 2002                               4,110,000
June 1, 2003                                   4,265,000
December 1, 2003                               4,425,000
June 1, 2004                                   4,595,000
December 1, 2004                               4,770,000
June 1, 2005                                   4,950,000
December 1, 2005                               5,135,000
June 1, 2006                                   5,330,000
December 1, 2006                               5,535,000
June 1, 2007                                   5,745,000
December 1, 2007                               5,960,000
June 1, 2008                                   6,190,000
December 1, 2008                               6,405,000
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Contracts for rubber and palm oil  factories will be let on a
Page  14
single  responsibility  basis  in  accordance  with  agreed tender
documents.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Indonesia may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   The rubber  coagulation  centers  at  Sintang/West Kalimantan
(PTP XIII) (Schedule  2,  Part  A  (1)(c)),  all housing and civil
works for training facilities  in  Riau  (PTP V) and rubber drying
equipment  for   existing   facilities   at   Air  Molek/Riau  and
Bajubang/Jambi (PTP IV) may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance  with  procedures  in  effect   on  the  date  of  this
Agreement.
2.   Equipment and  supplies  for  monitoring  and  evaluation for
technical  studies,  training  and  for  environmental  components
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not  to  exceed  $3,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines,  in  accordance with the Borrower's
local procedures in effect on the date of this Agreement.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.3 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for factories and consul-
tants, and each contract for  housing  estimated to cost more than
$1,000,000 equivalent, the  procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
Page  15
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and  conditions  of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (5) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
Page  16
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for  eligible   expenditures.    All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been  justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account,  the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence   showing  that  such  payment  was  made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the  eligible  Category,  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify bynotice to the  
Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  17
