Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P.;073-T.ND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$350 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
MAY 16, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
U3S$1.00           Rupiah (Rp.) 1,759
Rp.l million   -  US$569
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
API            -  Importer identification number
BAPPENAS       - National Development Planning Agency
BKPM           -  Investment Coordinating Board
BULOG          -  The National Logistics Agency
CCCN           - Customs Coordination Council Nomenclature
CD             - Certificate of Deposit
GOI            -  Government of Indonesia
HGB            - Right of Building
HGU            - Right of Exploitation
HS             - Harmonized System (of trade classification)
IGGI           -  Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia
IP             -  Importir Produser (actual user importer)
IU             -  Importir Umum (general importer)
MLT            - Medium and long-term
NPWP           -  Taxpayer identification number
NTB            - Non-tariff barrier
O&M            -  Operations and maintenance
OTC            -  Over-the-counter
P4BM           -  Implementing agency for May 6 scheme
PERUMTEL       -  Telecommunication utility
PLN            -  Power utility
PMA            -  Joint venture company
PSDL           -  Private Sector Development Loan
REPELITA       - National Five-Year Development Plan
SBI            -  Bank Indonesia certificates
SBPU           - Money market securities
SGS            -  Societe Generale de Surveillance S.A.
SIUP           -  Operating license
SOE            -  Statement of Expenditure
TPAL           - Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
VAT            - Value-added tax



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page no.
LOAN SUMMARY
I.  BACKGROUND .............          ..................................   1
II.  THE ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR IN INDONESIA ....               ..........   2
A.  Overview of the Changing Role of the Private Sector ..   2
Past Development of the Private Sector ....            .......   2
Current Government Policy Towards the Private
Sector .............       ............................   3
B.  The Environment for Private Sector Development    ......    4
Progress on Macroeconomic Conditions ....            .........   4
Domestic Incentives .......           .......................   7
Trade Policy .........         ..........................   7
Domestic Pricing Policies and Subsidies .... ....  10
Export and Investment Incentives .....           ..........  10
Legal and Regulatory Framework .....            ..............  11
Investment and Capacity Licensing ....           ..........  11
Foreign Investment Regulations .....            ............  13
Local Regulations .......           .......................  14
Land Tenure and Property Rights ................  14
Labor Laws and Regulations .....            ................  15
Corporate Legal Framework ......           ................  15
C.  Changing Policies Towards Public Enterprises .... .....  15
D.  Infrastructure and Supporting Services .....              ..........  17
Provision of Basic Infrastructure .....            ...........  17
Transport and Other Services .....            ................  18
Education and Health Services .....            ...............  19
E.  Financial Sector Development ......             ...................  20
Background .       ......................................  20
Recent Policy Reforms .......           .....................  21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



III.  THE BANK STRATEGY FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
IN INDONESIA        .........................................  23
Macroeconomic Policies ...............................  23
Incentives and Regulatory Framework ......        ............  23
Public Enterprise Refoms ........... .................  24
Infrastructure and Supporting Services ..... .. .........  24
Financial Sector Development ......        ...................  26
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN . .......................................  27
A.  Loan Rationale and Objectives ......         ..................  27
B.  Loan Administration ..........       ........................  28
Disbursement . .......................................  28
Procurement ..............................                 29
Accounts and Audits ..............................   29
C.  Monitoring and Follo,.-up .............................  29
D.  Program Benefits and Risks ...........................  31
V.  RELATIONS WITH IMF ..................................  31
VI.  RECOMMENDATION        ...................................   31
TABLES:
Table 1:   Selected Economic Indicators for Indonesia ............... 6
Table 2:   Impact of Reform Packages on Import Licensing Coverage ...8
Table 3:   Changes in Tariff Schedule ......................9..* .....9
Table 4:   Summary of Investment Restrictions in the Industrial
Sector ................................................. 12
ANNEXES:
I. Key Economic Indicators                      .. 32
II.   The Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia ........ 34
III.  Supplementary Data Sheet                  ...... 38
IV.   Government's Statement on Economic Policy ............... 39
V.   Policy Framework ........................................ 49
VI.   Implementation and Impact of Reforms Supported by
Earlier Adjustment Loans ................................ 53
VII.   Details of Recent Policy Measures ....................... 60



INDONESIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loan Sunmary
Borrower:                 Republic of Indonesia
Executing Agencies:       Bank Indonesia and Ministry of Finance
Amount:                   US$350 million equivalent
Terms:                    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Project Descriptions:    The objectives of the proposed loan are to develop
the private sector by: (a) supporting the
substantial policy measures undertaken by the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) during 1988 and early
1989, and ensuring that they are implemented well;
(b) assisting GOI to bring about an early recovery in
economic activity, consistent with external and
internal financial stability; and (c) maintaining the
policy dialogue on further reforms to promote the
efficiency and longer-term viability of the economy.
The loan of US$350 million equivalent would finance
general imports of goods to meet part of Indonesia's
near-term foreign exchange requirements, and play a
catalytic role in mobilizing fast-disbursing
assistance from other donors. Satisfactory progress
on implementing recent reforms and follow-up action
on the core policy agenda could form the basis for a
subsequent loan in about a year.
Benefits and Risks:       The policy measures taken by the Government over the
past year will substantially improve the climate for
private sector development, by: (a) providing a
stable macroeconomic setting; (b) developing a less
distortionary trade regime; (c) reducing regulatory
restrictions on investment and maritime transport;
and (d) promoting a more competitive and responsive
financial system. Positive benefits of the ongoing
adjustment process are already evident in the recent
performance of the economy, especially the strong
growth of non-oil exports, investment approvals and
manufacturing activity. In all of these areas, the
private sector is now playing a much larger role than
in the early 1980s. The principal risk is that the
far-reaching nature of these reforms could encounter
domestic opposition as they are implemented and
extended. This risk is offset by the positive
responses to earlier reforms and the Government's
demonstrated commitment to carry out difficult and
sensitive policy measures.



Estimated Disbursement:  US$350 million will be disbursed by March 31. 1990.
Economic Rate of
Return:                 Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:         None.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS O! THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUT!VE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN TO INDONESIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Private Sector Development Loan to Indonesia for the equivalent of
US$350 million. The proposed loan would have a term of 20 years, including
5 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
2.       An economic report, entitled "Indonesia: Strategy for Growth and
Structural Change" (No. 7758-IND, dated May 3, 1989) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1989. Annex I gives selected economic indicators
for the country.
PART I - BACKGROUND
3.       Policies towards the public and private sectors have undergone
dramatic changes in Indonesia since the early part of the 1980s. The
Gevernment has embarked upon a wide-ranging program of reforms that is
designed to promote the role of the private sector. This is being done by
strict adherence to macroeconomic policies that improve the efficiency and
profitability of private sector investment, through reforms of the incentive
and regulatory framework, and through the development of the financial sector.
At the same time, the role of public enterprises concerned with the production
of goods (e.g., in agricutlture and manufacturing) and in the provision of
services (e.g., in finance and transport) has undergone reexamination.
Budgetary support for pvolic enterprises has been cut back, and programs are
being developed to transfer several of these activities to the private sector.
4.       The Bank has provided direct support to the Government's adjustment
efforts through two trade policy adjustment loans of US$300 million each: the
first was approved on February 3, 1987 and the second on May 10, 1988. These
two loans supported the adjustment measures taken by the Government in
response to the deteriorating external environment, and in particular the
policy reforms in trade, industry and investment regulations. Implementation
of the measures has proceeded well with no significant delays or problems.
More importantly, the results to date in terms of exports, investment and the
recovery of growth have been outstanding and well beyond expectations. An
important element underpinning this successful adjustment has been quick
disbursing assistance from official donors. Both directly, and through its
catalytic role, the Bank's adjustment loans mobilized US$3.7 billion in
special assistance to support the adjustment process. Annex VI provides a
detailed assessment of the implementation and impact of the reform program
supported by the earlier adjustment loans.
5.       Over the past year, the Government has pushed ahead aggressively with
its program of adjustment. A central element has been maintenance of prudent
and stable macroeconomic policies, to control inflation, promote non-oil
exports and avoid crowding out of private sector investment. The new budget
for 1989/90, announced early January, gives strong emphasis to public resource
mobilization, in order to offset declining oil revenues and maintain a prudent



fiscal stance. The Government has also broadened and intensified its efforts
to improve domestic incentives and the regulatory environment for thz% private
sector. A series of major reforms has been announced over the past six
months. These reforms stem from a conscious strategy on the part of the
Government to expand the role of the private sector and a clear recognition of
the constraints to private sector development that need to be addressed.  As
such, the recent packages have focussed on areas of reform that had been
identified as the most urgent by the Bank and the Government in removing the
impediments to private sector develolien.t. The highlights include:
o    another major package of reforms in trade policy, including the
removal of import licensing restrictions in such areas as
plastics, fertilizers and agricultural products;
o    adoption of a short negative investment list, to open up new
areas to domestic and foreign investment, and introduce greater
transparency into the system;
o    a major package of reforms in the financial sector that provides
for expansion of the private sector and greater competition in
the banking system, as well as development of capital markets;
and
o    wide ranging reforms in the maritime sector that virtually
remove all restrictions on entry by domestic and foreign lines,
and allow shipping companies complete freedom in determining
their routes and schedules.
6.       These recent measures are more sweeping thax those supported under
the earlier loans and will substantially improve the c'imate for private
sector development. The purpose of the proposed loan is to support these
measures and, thereby, to expand the role of the private sector in the
development of the country.
PART II - THE ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR IN INDONESIA
A. Overview of the Changing Role of the Private Sector
Past Development of the Private Sector
7.       The private sector in Indonevsia has traditionally played an important
role in smallholder agriculture, small and medium industry, and the provision
of many services, particularly transportation and trade. However, since the
early days of Independence, there has also been a tradWtion of heavy
government regulation of private sector activity and direct public sector
involvement in many spheres of economic activity. Following the
nationalization of foreign (mainly Dutch) enterprises in the late 1950s, there
was a steady increase in public sector involvement in agricultural and
manufacturing activities, and in construction, transportation and banking
services. For much of the 1970s and early 1980s, the expansion in the role of
the public sector was made possible by the rapid increase in oil revenues.
During 1974-82, public investment grew on average by about 92 per annum in
real terms and accounted for almost half of total investment. Much of the



increase in public investment was directed to the expansion of the country's
physical infrastructuret irrigation. roads, power and telecommunications. But
the role of the public sector was seen also to be important to balance the
economic power of the large business groups, and to push industrial
development into upstream and high-technology areas. By the early 1980s, the
Central Government owned some 214 enterprises in virtually all sectors of the
economy. e&rms with public involvement accounted for 37Z of industrial
production (and over 0S in the chemicals, non-metallic minerals and basic
metals sul"sectorp). The expansion in the role of the public sector, combined
with a strong domestic market orientation and a philosophy of close guidance
of the private sector, led to a proliferation of trade and investment
restrictions. As a result, the regulatory environment for private sector
activity became less transparent and distorted domestic incentives. The
performance of supporting services, especially in the financial and transport
sectors, was also constrained by regulatory controls over competitiou and the
dominance of public sector institutions.
Current Government Policy Towards the Private Sector
8.       Since 1982, there has been a major shift in policy towards the roles
of the private sector and public enterprises. Following the decline in oil
prices, the Government found that it no longer had sufficient resources to
sustain public investment at historical levels. Over the past five years,
public investment has been cut by more than 25Z in real terms. Budget
contributions to public enterprises have been virtually eliminated and strict
limits have been placed on the access of public enterprises to non-
concessional external funds. The Government has recognized that public
enterprises have become a considerable burden to the economy, and that their
role should be reduced. Accordingly, b review has recently been completed of
the financial performance of most public enterprises to identify suitable
candidates for divestiture or reorganization. It is expected that some
enterprises will enter into joint ventures wit-. the private sector and others
will issue shares to the public in the near future.
9.       At the same time, and in parallel with trends elsewhere in the world,
the Government also recognized that the private sector must be encouragel to
play a more active role in the development of the country by supporting the
growth of employment, incomes and exports. The basic objectives of the
strategy towards the private sector are to: (a) promote more rapid growth
through increased efficiency; and (b) provide wider participation and
ownership for the private sector in economic activities. This shift in policy
stemmed from a major reexamination of the constraints to private sector
development, namely: a distorted incentive regime, a restricted ownership
policy, a cumbersome regulator framework, deficiencies in infrastructure and
supporting services, and weakt.c.3ses in the financial sector that adversely
affect the availability and cost of credit. Beginning in 1985, the Government
2mbarked upon a drive to reduce and simplify economic regulations. This drive
gathered momentum over the past two years, culminating in the major series of
reforms announced since October 1988 on trade policy, investment licensing,
financial bector development and maritime regulations.
10.      The changing role of the public sector, and the importance attached
to private sector development, are clearly reflected in the draft five-year
plan (REPELITA V) presented to Parliament in early 1989. The plan projects



- 4 -
the private sector's share in total investment to average 55Z over the next
five years.l/ While this share is lower than in recent years, when public
investment has been sharply curtailed, it is above the trend levels of the
late 1970s and early 1980s. To achieve this objective, the plan recognizes
the need to develop a 'healthy and dynamic investment climate' through
attractive incentives, simplified regulations and procedures, and the
provision of appropriate infrastructure. Given the higher priority for O&M,
physical infrastructure anI human resource development, direct investment in
industry is projected to account for onlv 2Z of development expenditure during
REPELITA V (down from a peak of 9Z in 1985186). As a result, almost all of
the increment in manufacturing capacity, for example, will have to come from
the private sector.
B. The Environment for Private Sector Development
11.      As pointed out in the recent World Bank Review Group Report on
Private Sector Development,21 a supportiv2 environment for private sector
development must include three key elements: a stable macroeconomic setting,
economic incentives that promote efficient resource allocation by the private
sector, and laws and regulations that protect the public interest, jut do not
unnecessarily interfere with private initiative.   Indonesia's past record in
each of these areas, including the recent policy reforms, as well as the main
challenges ahead are summarized below.
Progress on Macroeconomic Conditions
12.      Macroeconomic conditions in a country have a pervasive influence on
the private sector through their effects on the production and investment
climate in which private producers operate. In Indonesia, despite the adverse
impact of external shocks, the Government has succeeded in maintaining a
stable macroeconomic environment in recent years. Prudent fiscal policies
have protected the private sector's access to limited financial resources,
while al3o helping to reduce domestic inflation. Flexible exchange rate and
interest rate policies have in turn prevented capital flight, and provided
appropriate signals for efficient resource mobilization and allocation.
Through these sound policies, the Government has been able to avoid more
draconian cuts in aggregate demand and preserve its creditworthiness in
financial markets, with obvious benefits to the private sector.
13.      As the external environment faced by Indonesia deteriorated during
the 1980s, the Government adopted more austere macroeconomic policies in two
successive stabilization programs (1982-85 and 1986-88). The Rupiah was
devalued in 1983 and 1986, and the flexibility of the exchange rate has
subsequently been increased through a more actively managed float. Because of
prudent fiscal and monetary policies, the real effective exchange rate is now
lower than immediately after the devaluation in September 1986. Fiscal
discipline has been maintained through severc cuts in public sector spending.
Many large capital-intensive projects were rephased in 1983, with estimated
1/ Private investment, as defined by GOI, is total investment less
development expenditure by the Central Government.
21 Report of the Private Sector Development Review Group, submitted to the
Board on July 25, 1988.



foreign exchange savings of US$10 billion. Over the past three years, civil
service salaries have been frozen and real capital spending by the Central
Government has been cut by more than 20S. The 1989190 budget provides for
increases in civil service salaries (152). This is appropriate under current
circumstances. However, because of the emphasis given to raising non-oil
revenues, the overall fiscal stance remains cautious, with a primary surplus
and declining net domestic expenditure.
14.      In order to ensure that the public sector can meet its spending
priorities and debt commitments, while reducing the fiscal deficit to
sustainable levels, the Government is pursuing an aggressive program of public
resource mobilizatirn.   Following the major tax reforms of the mid 1980s, and
subsequent improvements in tax administration, non-oil taxes have been raised
from 7.42 to 10.8? of non-oil GDr over the past six years. Even so, this
performance is still well short of potential and lower than for most other
countries in the Region. Over the next five years, budget resources will
continue to be restrained by weak oil prices and high debt payments. To
respond to this situation, the Government is preparing a comprehensive program
of actions to mobilize public resources during 1989/90.3/   Several important
components have already been announced: (a) power tariffs were raised on
average by 252 on April 1, 1989; (b) VAT has been extended to the wholesale
level and most services; (c) the rates and number of items subject to luxury
tax have been increased; and (d) the Government intends to eliminate pesticide
subsidies during the coming year.
15.      To help relieve the short-term resource constraint, and support the
Government's policy measures, the donor community has provided special
assistance in the form of fast-disbursing and untied aid. Disbursements of
special assistance have totalled an estimated US$3.7 billion over the past
three years.41 These additional resources have enabled the Government to push
ahead with its deregulation measures, and by cushioning the economy against
the deflationary impact of the drop in oil prices. have facilitated the
recovery in private investment and growth. Special assistance has also
enabled Indonesia to improve the term structure of its external debt, while
maintaining financial market and investor confidence about the viability of
the Government's adjustment program. Our balance of payments projections
indicate that requirements for commitments of special assistance will total
US$1.8 billion in 1989/90. This is substantially down on the level of
US$2.4 billion pledged for last year. This declining trend reflects the
Government's commitment to narrow the financing gaps by developing non-oil
exports and non-oil budget revenues, so as to phase out special assistance
over the next few years.
16.      As a result of the prompt stabilization measures taken in response to
the external shocks of 1986, the current account deficit was contained to 61
of GNP in 1986/87 and reduced to below 32 of GNP over the past two years (see
31 The 1989190 budget projects non-oil tax and non-tax revenues to grow by
31? and 502 respectively over the estimated base for this year.
4/  Special assistance includes two World Bank trade policy adjustment
loans, the local-cost financing of World Bank projects by Japan Exim
Bank, and extra program aid and local-cost financing from other IGGI
members, especially Japan.



Table 1). Inflation has also been held to about SZ per annum over the past
two years, preserving the competitive advantage provide.d by the 1986
devaluation. In response to the real exchange rate adjustment, and
accompanying deregulation measures, non-oil e-ports have increased
substantially from US$6.7 billion in 1986/87 to an estimated US$12.1 billion
in 1988189, a real increase of 202 per annux. Much of this growth has come
from a diversifying base of manufactured goods, with many small and medium-
sized private firms contributing substantially. There is also evidence of a
resurgence in private investment, especially in export-oriented activities.
Approvals by the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM) rose by 230Z for
domestic investment and 430? for foreign investment over the past two years.
Overall, Indonesia not only succeeded in sustaining growth in the non-oil
economy despite the severe challenges posed by the adverse external
environment, but has been able to put the economy back on the path of more
rapid growth. Non-oil GDP growth, in real terms, is estimated to have risen
to around 5.6Z in 1988, compared with an average of 4.12 per annum over the
past three years. With the resurgence of investment and the momentum of the
export drive, there is every expectation that this recovery will be sustained.
Table 1: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR INDONESIA
Actual                    Projected
1978-82  1982-86  1986-88   1989   1990  1990-95
Real growth rates (2 p.a.)
GDP                               5.3       3.8      4.3     5.2    4.6      5.2
Non-oil GDP                       6.9       4.0      5.1      5.6    5.9     6.2
Non-oil exports                  10.5      13.6     19.5    11.9    9.8      7.2
Fixed investment                 10.7      -5.0      4.4     7.0    8.5      8.9
- Public                        12.6     -8.8       2.2     3.6    6.6      7.7
- Private                        9.1     -1.2       6.2     9.6    9.9      9.7
Other key indicators /a
Oil price (US$Ibbl)              33.2      12.5     15.0    15.5   16.6    22.0
Current account/GNP (Z)          -7.9      -5.9     -2.5    -2.1   -1.9    -1.0
Debt service ratio (Z) lb        16.8      37.3     36.3    37.1   34.4    23.8
/a End of period.
/b Debt service excludes prepayments.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics and World Bank staff estimates.
17.      To absorb the rapidly growing labor force at higher levels of
productivity, the non-oil economy will have to grow by 5-62 per annum in real
terms over the medium term. This will require improvements in efficiency and
a strong investment effort. Accordingly, substantial buildups of production
capacity in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors, as well as in
supporting improvements in physical infrastructure, are incorporated into our
projections. Fixed investment is projected to rise from 20? of GDP in 1988 to



252 of GDP by 1995. Private investment is projected to grow on average by 102
per annum in real terms over this period. Investment and growth in turn will
lead to higher import demand, at a time when net earnings from oil are
stagnating. However, the impact on the balance of payments will be offset by
a steady improvement in the terms of trade and strong growth of non-oil
exports. Non-oil exports are expected to grow on average by 102 p.a. in real
terms over the next three years and 72 p.a. over the medium term. As a
result, the current account deficit will continue to decline as a share of
GNP, and be stabilized at around 12 of GNP by 1995.
18.      Indonesia's external debt burden has increased sharply since the
early 1980s. The debt service ratio is estimated to have risen from 172 in
1982 to 372 in 1986, and then stabilized around this level over the past two
years. Similarly, the stock of MLT debt outstanding and disbursed has doubled
over the past five years to about US$47 billion. A large portion of the
increase in the debt burden was due to factors beyond the control of the
Government, especially the depreciation of the US Dollar and the fall in oil
prices. Because of the favorable debt structure (reinforced by the
availability of special assistance) and the strong economic recovery
(especially for non-oil exports), Indonesia is projected to make rapid
progress in reducing its debt burden and improving its debt servicing
capacity. The debt service ratio, for example, declines from 36Z in 1988 to
242 by 1995. As a result, Indonesia is expected to remain creditworthy,
ensuring access to adequate levels of external funding from both official and
private sources.
Domestic Incentives
19.      The incentive framework is an important determinant of efficient
private sector development. Distortions in the incentive framework in the
past had led to widespread inefficiencies in resource allocation, created a
substantial anti-export bias, and, together with the domestic licensing
system, stifled competition and created a climate of 'rent seeking' in the
economy. The main instruments for incentives policy in Indonesia are: the
trade policy regime, domestic pricing policies and incentives, and export and
investment incentives.
20.      Trade policy.  The trade regime has played a pervasive role in
shaping the structure and efficiency of private sector activity in Indonesia.
Throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, Indonesia's trade and industrial
policies were inward-looking, promoting investment in highly protected
activities geared to supply the domestic market. At the start of the decade
the primary instrument of protection was a high and disparate import tariff
structure. As pressures began to build from the slowdown in the domestic
economy in the early 1980s, tariff protection was supplemented by a
proliferation of non-tariff barriers (NTBs) in the form of import licenses.
In 1985, the Government introduced an across-the-board reduction in tariffs,
lowering the ceiling for most items from 2252 to 602 and reducing the number
of tariff levels from 25 to 11. However, the effect of this change was
significantly muted by the introduction of many specific duties and the
increased use of NTBs. By the end of 1985, more than 1,700 items (CCCN
categories) were subject to import license restrictions, accounting for over
40X of total import value and traded domestic production.



21.      The sharp drop in oil prices in early 1986 drastically reduced export
and tax revenues, further exposing the danger of pursuing an inward-looking
development strategy. In response, the Government embarked upon an
accelerated and more sweeping program of trade and industry policy reform to
complement the 312 currency devaluation of September 1986. The first step was
taken on May 6, 1986, when the Government announced measures to provide
internationally-priced inputs to exporters. Subsequent reform measures have
been designed to move away from a trade regime based on import license
protection towards one based on tariffs. The cumulative impact of the trade
reform packages announced between October 1986 and end-1987 is shown in
Table 2. In brief, these measures resulted in the removal of 544 items from
license control accounting for 31? of all items and 41? of total import value
previously restricted. More importantly, the share of manufacturing
production protected by import licensing declined from 52? in mid-1986 to 35?
by end-1987. The reduction in NTBs was concentrated in activities with the
highest effective rates of protection, such as chemicals, iron and steel,
engineering goods, paints and dyes, tires and tubes, glass and textiles.
Table 2: IMPACT OF REFORM PACKAGES ON IMPORT LICENSING COVERAGE
Coverage                             Mid-1986      End-1987       End-1988
6 of CCCN items                             31.5           21.7          16.3
2 of import value                           42.9           25.2          20.8
2 of total domestic
production                                41.4           37.6          28.9
Memo item:
2 of domestic production in:
Manufacturing                             52.0           35.3          26.0
Agriculture                               65.5           64.6          50.2
Mining and minerals                        0.2            0.2           0.2
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
22.      A major package of new trade policy measures was aDnounced in
November 1988. A further 25'! items have been removed from restrictive import
licenses, accounting for an additional 17? of all items and 10? of import
value previously restricted. The impact on the share of total domestic
production protected by import licensing is much larger than previous
packages, declining from 38? at end-1987 to 292 by end-1988.5/ This reflects
an effort to push the reform effort into the agriculture, food and beverages
sectors (e.g., tobacco, rubber, fruits, palm/coconut oil, processed meat,
5 Of the 29? of domestic production remaining under NTBs:3, 16 percentage
points relate to rice, where the Government maintains import
restrictions for food security objectives. Indonesia is an efficient
producer of rice for the domestic market.



cigarettes), which constitute a large share of domestic value added and had
been largely untouched by earlier reforms. With respect to manufacturing, the
November package is significant in that it removed all license restrictions on
fertilizers as well as plastics, a hitherto difficult area of reform, and made
further in-roads into the steel and textile subsectors. The November package
also adjusted tariffs and/or surcharges on 191 items, including 25 items for
which specific duties have been replaced by ad valorem duties. Apart from 11
footwear items, all tariff and surcharge changes remain within the lower
ceiling (60Z) established in March 1985. In addition, Indonesia moved to the
new Harmonized System of coding and classifying items from January 1, 1989.
23.      To fully benefit from the measures taken to date, it is important
that the private sector is aware of the new rules and that the bureaucracy
implements them efficiently. As noted in the Policy Statement, the Government
intends to continue removing import licensing restriccions over the coming
year, especially in those sectors where they still provide high protection to
domestic production. The end objective is to eliminate all NTBs on imports,
except for a small group of products that are harmful to health, strategic to
national defense or involve special economic or social considerations. The
strategy of moving away from NTBs inevitably increases the importance of the
tariff structure.  As shown in Table 3, the cumulative effective of tariff
changes since 1985 has been to reduce the range of dispersion, with little
effect on the average tariff rate. However, in moving off NTBs, split tariffs
and surcharges were used to protect some domestic producers.61 As a result,
there are still marked differences between and within sectors in the level and
dispersion of tariffs. This reinforces the importance of broadening the trade
Table 3: CHANGES IN THE TARIFF SCHEDULE La
Pre-
1985       1985       1988        1989
Average tariff rates (Z)
Unweighted                            37.3        27.0       24.0       24.4
Weighted by:
- Import value                       22.0       13.0        14.5       14.5
- Domestic production                26.0       17.1        16.6       17.0
Index of dispersion Lb                61.5      107.8        90.0       84.4
/a  Tariffs are inclusive of surcharges and specific duties have been
converted to ad valorem equivalents.
/b Measured by the coefficient of dispersion.
Source: Ministry of Finance and World Bank staff estimates.
6/ Split tariffs are used to subdivide a standard seven or nine digit
CCCNIHS product description into finer product groups with differential
tariffs or NTBs applied. Surcharges are also used as a de facto anti-
dumping device.



- 10 -
reform effort to include a comprehensive rationalization of the tariff
schedule. In this regard, the Government intends to prepare a medium-term
plan for tariff reform over the coming year, including proposals to reduce the
role of split tariffs and surcharges, and to implement a phased reduction in
the level and range of tariff rates. To help prepare proposals for furthe-
reform, the Government has set up a high-level team on tariffs, with
responsibility for related issues of trade and industrial policy. Technical
assistance will be required to build up the analytical capacity of this team.
24.      Domestic pricing policies and subsidies.  Domestic price controls are
not pervasive in Indonesia. Rice prices are stabilized through the market
operations of BULOG, but without any significant deviation from world prices
on trend.71 Some other agriculture prices, such as for soybeans and sugar,
are above world prices because of import restrictions. The most important
price controls are on energy (petroleum products, power) and agricultural
inputs (pesticides, fertilizer). Power tariffs were raised on average by 25?
on April 1, 1989, to improve the financial performance of the power utility
(PLN) and the efficiency of electricity consumption. It is important that
future adjustments in power tariffs be undertaken on a more regular and
automatic basis. At projected prices for 1989/90, there are no budget
subsidies for petroleum products. However, domestic petroleum prices are
still substant-' ly lower than elsewhere in the Region, with cross-
subsidization of some products (e.g., kerosene and diesel). The Government is
currently undertaking a comprehensive review of these and other energy pricing
issues. As regards agricultural inputs, pesticide and fertilizer prices were
increased substantially in October 1988: by 33? for pesticides, 22? for urea
and 2CX for TSP. Even so, subsidies remain high. The Government has
announced its intention to eliminate pesticide subsidies in 1989/90, and is
studying ways to reduce the fertilizer subsidy.
25.      Export and investmant incentives.  Indonesia abolished its export
certificate scheme (a form of subsidy) after acceding to GATT in 1986. The
Government is also committed to eliminate export credit subsidies by the early
1990s. Instead, the non-oil export drive is now being supported by a
competitive exchange rate, improvements in the trade regime and regulatory
framework, and the provision of promotional and information services by the
Government. One exception is the imposition of some new xport bans (e.g.,
semi-processed rattan, lowest-grade rubber) during 1988. These are intended
to increase domestic value added and/or protect the environment. However,
their justification needs to be reviewed, taking into account market
conditions for these products and the impact of the bans on domestic
employment and income distribution. The Government has asked the IMF and the
World Bank to undertake a joint study of export policies, including the role
of export bans, quotas and approved traders. As regards investment, all
fiscal incentives for domestic and foreign investment were eliminated during
the tax reforms of 1984. The Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM) has
subsequently been restructured, to focus on investment promotion rather than
regulation. Related changes in the regulatory framework are discussed below.
7/ Because of the drought, and the Government's policy of no imports,
domestic rice prices rose by about 50? over the year to August 1988.



- 11 -
Legal and Regulatory Framework
26.      Apart from distortions in incentive policies, the performance of the
private sector has been hindered by a regulatory framework characterized by a
heavy reliance on direct controls. Together with overlapping and unclear
jurisdictional mandates at the central and local levels, this approach led to
excessive and sometimes contradictory regulations. Both foreign and domestic
entrepreneurs have had to contend with a complex regulatory environment which,
together with a protective import regime, stifled competition, inhibited
flexibility, encouraged "rent seeking" and retarded productivity improvements.
Rather than promote private sector development, the regulatory framework
discouraged new private sector investment and undermined the development of an
efficient private sector. The main elements of the regulatory framework that
had been built up and put in place by the early 1980s were: a restrictive
investment and capacity licensing system; extensive regulations of foreign
investment; a proliferation of provincial and local level regulations; and
rigid land and laoor laws and regulations. Moreover, the legal code of the
country remains outmoded.
27.      Investment and capacity licensing.  In the early 1980s, Indonesia had
a highly regulated investment licensing system. At the heart of the
investment licensing system was the Investment Priority (DSP) List, which
regulated entry into specific lines of activity for both foreign and domestic
investors. While the original objective of the DSP list was to promote
investment, over time the list became increasingly restrictive and cumbersome.
This was partly because of the many ad hoc adjustments that were introduced.
But the fact that the DSP list was specified as a positive approval list which
varied from year to year meant that investments became more and more subject
to regulation and hence to administrative discretion and uncertainty.
28.      Over the past three years, the Government has taken a number of steps
to relax investment licensing. The investment process was streamlined
substantially in 1985. In 1986, fields of investment open to private
investors were specified more clearly and the number of areas open to private
and foreign domestic investment was expanded. A number of further steps were
taken in 1987 to relax the investment and capacity licensing system. These
included: (a) automatic approval to firms to increase production by up to 30X
of their licensed capacity; (b) 'broad banding' of investment categories,
which promoted greater competition by permitting firms to diversify production
and improve their operational flexibility; (c) opening additional fields of
investment to domestic and foreign private investors; and (d) streamlining
further the requirements for investment licenses.
29.      The response to the relaxation of investment (and more favorable
overall economic climate) has been impressive. Domestic investment approvals
by the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM) which had sagged since 1983, rose
from Rp.4.4 trillion in 1986 to Rp.10.3 trillion in 1987 and Rp.14.9 trillion
in 1988, an increase of 230Z over two years. Unlike the 1970s and early
1980s, when much of private investment was oriented towards import
substitution, the bulk of new investment approvals are directed towards export
activities. Another important feature of this surge in private investment is



- 12 -
that it is broad based covering virtually all sectors of the economy. This is
testimony that the private sector can indeed play the vital role that is
needed for the development of the non-oil economy.
30.      Despite the measures taken, and the encouraging trends in both
domestic and foreign private investment, the incomplete coverage of the the
DSP list and the large number of restricted sectors and conditions allowed
considerable discretion and restrictiveness in investment licensing. The
investment package announced in May 1989 is, therefore, a very important step
in the relaxation of the investment licensing system and ma,.ks a fundamental
shift in the approach to investment licensing. Through this package, the
Government has replaced a long and incomplete list of areas open to investment
approval by BKPM by a short negative list. In formulating the negative list,
there has been a conscious attempt to keep the number of restricted sectors to
a minimum and to remove the ad hoc conditions that had been introduced over
the years. There are two additional important features of the new list:
first, it does not distinguish between domestic investment that can be
processed by BKPM (PMDN investment) and non-PMDN investment for which
discretionary approval was required; and second, with the exception of
finished rattan products, all areas in the industrial sector that are open to
domestic investment are also open to foreign investment.8/   As showr. in
Table 4: SUMMhARY OF INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
(Number of investment (KKI) Categories)
1987               New
DSP List         Negative List
PHA Investment
Open                                        3,172                6,564
Restricted /a                               1,801                  162
Not Specified lb                            1,753                    0
PMDN Investment
Open                                        4,062                6,565
Restricted /a                                 911                  161
Not Specified /b                            1,753                    0
la  Closed or subject to restrictions.
/b Not specified in the DSP list.
Source: BKPM and World Bank staff estimates.
8/ There are, however, differential restrictions on foreign investment in
agriculture and other sectors.



- 13 -
Table 4, the result is that many more areas are now open to foreign (PMA) and
domestic (PMDN) private investment, and the areas restricted are specified
more clearly. By opening the vast majority of investment categories to PHA
and PMDN investment, and by specifying clearly the areas in which the
Government intends to regulate investment, the new investment list will
systematize and extend the relaxation in investment licensing, increase
transparency and reduce the scope for discretion. This will lead to a more
favorable and stable investment climate for private investors.
31.      The adoption of a negative investment licensing list will provide
also a clear cut framework for reviewing the validity of remaining
restrictions. In addition to the sectors still restricted in the BKPM list,
it would be important to review the restrictions that limit entry only to
small scale manufacturing. Although these restrictions are loosely applied,
elimination of a large proportion of these restrictions is warranted in the
current environment and will lead to a further simplification of the
investment licensing system. Eventually only a few activities would be
regulated on special economic and social grounds.
32.      Foreign investment regulations.  For many years, foreign firms
wishing to invest in Indonesia have been subject to even more stringent
regulations than domestic firms. In addition to generally more restrictive
investment licensing, foreign firms have been treated differently from
domestic firms in three respects: (a) minimum initial local ownership and
specific regulations on the transfer of the company from foreign ownership to
local ownership; (b) prohibition of domestic trading of outputs and marketing
of Indonesian export goods as well as restrictions on the purchase of domestic
inputs; and (c) limited access to domestic capital including export finance.
Since 1986, many of these restrictions have been relaxed or eliminated. The
first steps taken were to ease somewhat the ownership controls and permit
greater access to domestic capital markets. Further steps were taken through
the December 1987 package including: (a) removal of restrictions prohibiting
foreign companies from marketing Indonesian export goods; (b) permitting
foreign firms to purchase domestic inputs without restriction; (c) relaxing
rules regarding hiring of expatriate personnel; and (d) further easing of
ownership controls. As described below, additional measures have been taken
under the November 1988 packages to liberalize the entry of foreign banks into
the financial sector and of foreign shipping companies into the maritime
sector.
33.      These measures have responded to many of the major concerns expressed
by foreign investors and significantly reduced the differences in treatment
between foreign and dozestic firms. Together with the broader regulatory
measures, they have removed many of the disincentives to foreign investors and
have improved substantially the climate for foreign investment in Indonesia.
Recent trends in foreign investment reflect the shift in policy as well as
attitudes on the part of foreign investors. After recording a sharp and
bteady decline since 1983, foreign investment approvals rose from
US$0.8 billion in 1986 to US$1.4 billion in 1987 and to Us$4.4 billion in
1988, a level that surpasses even other East Asian economies.
34.      As noted above, the investment package announced in May 1989, by
equalizing the treatment between domestic and foreign investment in the
industrial sector, and by adopting a small negative list, will expand



- 14 -
substantially the scope for foreign investment in Indonesia. In order to
ensure that Indonesia can build on this recent progress in mobilizing foreign
investment, it will be important to continue reviewing ownership restrictions
that mav still impede new investment, and land restrictions that hinder
foreign investment in agriculture.
35.      Local regulations.  In addition to investment and operating licenses,
a firm must also acquire a number of licenses and permits at the provincial
and local levels. Although most countries have similar licensing objectives
in terms of land zoning, spatial and environmental concerns, in Indonesia the
procedures for obtaining these licenses are, and represent a potential barrier
to entry in terms of time, money and uncertainty with respect to the outcome.
The Central Government is encouraging provinces to adopt a "one-door" approach
to investment approvals. However, implementation still varies from province
to province. As a result, the entire process can still take more than two
years from the investment proposal stage. The major steps in the local
regulatory process are; (a) location approval, which entails obtaining the
land reservation and location permits; (b) land rights and acquisition, which
involves registering and titling the land; and (c) construction approval,
which involves obtaining the nuisance license and construction permit. The
major problems with this process are: (a) the complexity of application
procedures; (b) the lack of institutional coordination, so that investors must
secure approvals at several levels of local government and from various
agencies; and (c) limited administrative capacity at the local level,
including shortages of trained staff in most agencies.
36.      To date, the Central Government has focussed on the nation-wide
framework. With progress in this area, greater emphasis will have to be given
to the problems at the provincial level. A major overhaul of local level
regulations is needed to make the system timely and transparent. This is
likely to be a time-consuming and difficult process, since practices vary
among provinces and there is often limited administrative capacity at the
local levels. Accordingly, considerable attention will have to be given to
streamlining existing regulations and practices, while also developing
institutional capacity so that legitimate concerns bach as environmental
effects can be effectively addressed.
37.      Land tenure and property rights.  The laws governing land ownership
are extremely restrictive in Indonesia and the procedures for acquiring,
registering and obtaining a title to land are complex. Despite the Basic
Agrarian Law of 1960 which was intended to end the duality of land laws
established in the colonial period, a substantial proportion of land in
Indonesia remains unsurveyed, unregistered and untitled, and is governed by
traditional (or the adat) law. Thus, less than a quarter of agricultural land
is properly titled or registered. Even the land that is officially registered
is subject to several types of land rights with varying degrees of tenure.
Private corporations (both domestic and foreign) are not allowed to have right
of ownersbip of land; this right is confined to private Indonesian individuals
and governmment entities. Agricultural lands for plantations are usually given
the Right of Exploitation (HGU), whereas factories and business premises
usually have the Right of Building (HGB). The maximum time limit on these land
rights are 20 to 30 years. The short duration of these land rights (although
extendable) creates considerable uncertainty. The acquisition of land can be
also very costly and time consuming.



- 15
38.      It is clear that fundamental changes are needed in land laws and
procedures. The Govermnent recognizes the seriousness of the situation and
has recently created a new agency for land directly under the President. A
thorough review of land regulations and practices is needed now to draw up an
action program for reform. Such a program of reform could include: (a) an
intensive program to complete cadastral surveys and to register and to title
land; (b) streamlining of procedures for land acquisition; (c) clarification
of the role of the new land agency and strengthening of its institutional
capacity at the central and provincial levels; and. (d) relaxation of
ownership restrictions and clarification of tenure rights.
39.      Labor laws and regulations.  There are five main areas of labor
regulations in Indonesia: (a) protection and supervision of workers that
includes specific regulations on hours worked and overtime, and, wages and
worker welfare; (b) reporting requirements by the company; (c) safety and
health standards; (d) hiring, retrenchment and movement of labor between
provinces; and (e) employment of expatriate workers. Taken together, these
regulations are extremely cumbersome, adding to costs and reducing operational
flexibility. For example, the retrenchment laws discourage employment at the
margin. Many of the stated objectives are not met because of lack of
enforcement capacity. There are also many superfluous regulations and
reporting requirements which need to be eliminated or streamlined.
40.      Corporate legal framework.  A well-functioning legal system is an
important prerequisite if the shift towards a less regulated environment for
the private sector is to be successful. The Indonesian legal system falls
short in this regard. Most basic laws date back to the colonial period and
have not been reformulated in the face of changing conditions. There are also
notable gaps in the legal framework, for instance, on intellectual property
rights and the legal and accounting framework for financial transactions. As
a result of the general character of most statutes, implementation is often
dependent upon subsequent regulations and decrees. The most important
weakness in the legal system is enforcement, with a cumbersome court process,
that lacks transparency and precedents. Nor are there any effective
arbitration mechanisms outside the court system. Addressing these
shortcomings is necessarily a complex and time consuming task that will
require substantive revisions of laws, reform of legal procedures and
reorientation of institutions. To ensure that the legal system does not
become a major constraint to the deregulation process, it is critical that
reform of the legal system be revitalized.
C. Changing Policies Towards Public Enterprises
41.      As noted earlier, there has been a major shift in policy towards
public enterprises in Indonesia, fueled by a growing recognition of the burden
that public enterprises place on the economy. Although there are many public
enterprises in Indonesia that operate efficiently and profitably, the overall
performance of the sector is poor. Estimates for a sample of 135 enterprises
suggest that the after-tax return on total assets averaged only 1.1 during



- 16 -
the 1982-86 period. Negative returns were recorded for public enterprises in
several industrial subsectors (e.g., paper, metal products, textiles and
steel). Not only have public enterprises constituted a financial burden on
the budget and the banking system, but some public enterprises have
contributed to the high costs and lack of competitiveness of the economy by
supplying basic industrial inputs of poor quality at high prices.
42.      There is now a clear consensus that in parallel to an expanded role
for the private sector, the role of public enterprises should be reduced and
modified. As a first step, the Government has recently completed a review of
the financial performance of most public enterprises, to identify potential
candidates for divestment or reorganization. It is expected that a number of
public enterprises will enter into joint ventures with the private sector or
issue shares to the public. This latter option was dependent upon recent
measures to develop the capital markets (see Section E). The Government is
working on the rules for divestiture, and a package of measures is expected to
be finalized in the near future. A number of practical difficulties have to
be addressed, iDcluding:
o the transparent definition of rules for divestiture to ensure
fairness in valuation and bidding;
o minimizing the burden on government of compensation for
retrenchment (an earlier effort at restructuring several trade
companies had resulted in a costly burden of severance payments);
o developing a concensus on divestiture with the sectoral ministries
responsible for these enterprises; and
o determining the phasing and sequencing of divestiture (i.e.,
whether to proceed gradually and on a case-by-case basis or move
more quickly).
43.      Beyoid these issues concerning divestiture, the Government also
recognizes the need to look into broader issues related to the policy
framework for enterprises remaining in the public sector. The starting point
has to be a careful review of the Government's objectives for the public
enterprise sector, given the present focus on efficiency and private sector
development, followed by an appropriate classification of areas and activities
in which public enterprises will continue to operate. Public enterprise
performance can then be improved by: (a) setting clear objectives for
enterprises which can be translated into monitorable targets; (b) selecting
managers capable of operating a commercial venture and compensating them
adequately; (c' providing managers with sufficient autonomy to achieve agreed
objectives; and (d) holding managers accountable for results and linking
incentives to performance. The Government intends to review these issues over
the coming year. Based on this review, a plan of action will be prepared, to
guide the future direction of public enterprise reform.



- 17 -
D. Infrastructure and Supporting eervices
44.      An important requirement for the rapid development of the private
sector is the concommitant development of basic infrastructure, support
services and human resources. The Government will continue to provide the
bulk of basic infrastructure, but there is an interest in an expanded role for
the private sector in selected areas (e.g., transport terminals, toll roads).
On supporting services, government policy has shifted towards a greater role
for the private sector and improving the efficiency of services by fostering
competition and lowering costs.
Provision of Basic Infrastructure
45.      After the recent declines in public investment in infrastructure, a
prudent expansion will soon be needed to achieve higher growth and avoid
infrastructure bottlenecks in the 1990s. In particular, private sector
activity will need to be supported by t'ne development of physical
infrastructure, such as irrigation and roads, which will remain largely in the
public domain. In addition to a carefully formulated investment program, two
priority areas in the public provision of infrastructure are a strong
operations and maintenance (O&0) p,olicy and emphasis on cost recovery.  O&H is
vital for maintaining and improving the productivity of the massive
investments in infrastructure made in the 1970s and early 1980s and
strengthening tlhe quality of services. Greater cost recovery will promote
more efficient use, whilte also improving the quality of service, by helping to
finance better O&M practices.
46.      The Government's strategy of export-and manufacturing-led growth
implies rapid growth in the demand for utilities, which have so far largely
been in the public sector. With regard to power, PLN has been quite
successful in meeting domestic demand and improving the reliability of supply.
However. PLN remains both highly regulated and dependent on the Government. A
number of organization and sector policy issues will have to be addressed, if
this demand is to be met in an effective and efficient manner. These include
policies on electricity pricing and distribution, the development of a least-
cost investment program, sector organization and structure (including the role
of the private sector), and the internal organization and efficiency of PLN.
The telecommunications sector is also dominated by a single public entity,
PERUMIEL, and faces a number of similar issues related to the policy and
regulatory framework, weaknesses in PERUMTEL's organization and management
affecting its program execution capability, and lack of competition in
domestic manufacturing of components. it will be important to develop a
comprehensive action plan to address these constraints, if the increasingly
important needs for telecommunications services are to be met.
47.      One area where the private sector has assumed an increasingly
important role in the provision of infrastructure is housing. The
Government's housing program. which provides the bulk of formal sector housing
and was previously dominated by public sector developers, is now characterized
by an increasing private sector presence. Private sector produced housing in
this program has increased from 532 at the beginning of F-EPELITA IV to 752
currently. The opportunities afforded to the private sector in the housing
program have resulced in higher production and lower costs. Private sector



- 18 -
efficiency and willingness to produce smaller units has enabled the Government
to provide 25,000 more units (8Z) than originally programmed for the same
investment, while the average cost per unit produced by the program has
declined by 13Z.
Transport and Other Services
48.      Most services in the economy (transport, trade, etc.) have long been
provided by the private sector. But these seccors have been also highly
regulated. This has led to high costs and poor quality of service. However,
government policy has changed markedly, most noticeably ir the transport
sector. Until recently, the sector was highly regulated with controls on
tariffs, licenses on routes and a range of other permits. This restricted new
private investment in the sector, reduced flexibility and raised transport
costs to very high levels. The most deleterious regulations were in the
maritime subsector. A start was made in 1985 to reform the transport sector
when the Government replaced customs services with a private sector
organization and restructured port operations. As a result of those reforms,
cargo clearance and ship turnaround times were reduced substantially, freight
rates for exports and imports declined markedly on many routes, and the
quality of services to shippers and consignees improved as international
services were extended to more ports. However, the performance of national
shipping companies continued to be constrained by excessive controls over
investment and operating decisions and by the policy of compulsory scrapping
of ships beyond a certain age that was introduced in 1984. The scrapping
policy reduced capacity and raised costs even further.
49.      The Government has introduced a sweeping range of reforms in 1988 to
address these concerns. First, the compulsory scrapping policy was suspended
in February 1988. This was followed by the announcement of a second package
of maritime reforms on November 21, 1988. This package:
o   reduces the categories of shipping business licenses from five to
two;
o   relaxes vessel ownership restrictions;
o   permits national and foreign lines to establish joint venture
companies to serve domestic and international routes;
o   eliminates the separate shipping operating license;
o   frees companies to transport own products and raw materials
without a shipping business license;
o   permits shipping lines to determine their own route structures,
vessel assignments and sailing frequencies without government
approval;
o   permits national lines to charter foreign flag vessels to serve
domestic routes without government approval;
o   allows Indonesian companies to buy or sell Indonesian vessels, or
dock them, without government approval; and



- 19 -
o   lifts the freeze on the issue of general cargo shipping business
licenses -- in effect since 1976 -- and simplifies and
streamlines the application process.
50.      By reducing and simplifying business licensing procedures, by
allowing shipping lines to determine their own route structures and schedules,
and by sasing entry by both foreign and domestic companies, this oomprehensive
set of reforms has removed virtually all regulatory impediments to development
of an efficient and responsive maritime transport industry. Our preliminary
judgement is that as a result Indonesia now has a more open and unregulated
shipping industry than most otheL maritime nations. In response to this major
shift in the policy environment, over 40 new shipping companies have already
been licensed. This resurgence of competition will have a strong positive
effect on the quality of shipping services and transport costs.
51.      The Government is now working to implement these reforms and to
establish appropriate arrangements for monitoring their operation. The next
priority for reform is in the road transport subsector, where the key
regulations date back to the mid-1930s and have since been subjected to
frequent piecemeal amendments. Here the problems caused by excessive economic
regulation--which is exercised principally through business and route
licensing procedures and tariff controls--are compounded by poor delineation
of- the responsibilities of the many central and regional government agencies
involved in administration and enforcement. Their impact is most evident in
the passenger transport field, and particularly urban bus services, although
road freight transport is also affected to a lesser extent. Regulations
pertaining to vehicle weights and dimensions limits, which are intended to
protect public road infrastructure from excessive damage by heavy commercial
vehicles, also have an important bearing on road transport system efficiency
and costs, and the limits presently applying to the key interurban links have
already been shown to be too low. The required increases, however, will need
to be harmonized with road construction standards and changes in the road user
charge regime, and should be introduced progressively in line with a
publicized program of road and bridge improvements which will provide a basis
for planning within the vehicle assembly and road transport industries. The
Government is currently developing a modern and comprehensive body of road
traffic and transport regulations, which is also expected to provide for
substantial improvements in areas pertaining to safety. Implementation of
these regulations is of high priority. Attention also needs to be given to
establishing a more satisfactory regulatory regime for public road transport,
and a clearer and more appropriate division of responsibilities for road
traffic and transport matters between central and regional government
agencies.
Education and Health Services
52.      A skilled and productive labor force is an essential ingredient for
rapid private sector development. A strong and well designed program of human
resource development is therefore a priority for public policy. The past
public investment effort focussed on expansion of facilities for education,
health, family planning, water supply and sanitation. This effort has paid
off, as reflected in large improvements in literacy rates altd health
standards, as well as lower fertility rates. But there are growing concerns



- 20 -
about the quality of many of.these essential services. In the l990s, the
Government's main emphasis vill be on quality improvements, with selective
expansion. For example, the key to improving the quality of the labor force
is enhanced quality of schooling, starting at the p. imary level. As with
general education, there is a need to emphasize the quality of vocational
education. The private sector already plays a major role in meeting the
demand fox secondary and tertiary education. The Government intends to
maintain incentives for private participation in providing education and
health services while introducing better accreditation procedures to improve
star.dards. Over the longer term, private employers should also play a
significantly larger role in providing and bearing the cost of high quality
training. The Government can assist this process by Improving labor market
information about employment and training, including costs and benefits of
different training schemes and by developing programs which better respond to
private sector needs. In the short to medium term, it will also be necessary
to ensure better utilization and improved efficiency of existing government
training facilities. It is essential to link the use of these facilities with
actual employment by entering into cost-sharing arrangements with employers.
E. Financial Sector Development
53.      With the saajor shift on emphasis towards the private sector already
underway, the Government realizes that a key ingredient for success will be
the further development of the financial system. The future demand for
funding by the private sector is expected to greatly exceed current levels as
the economy recovers and a larger share of activity shifts to the private
sector. Private investment is projected to average Rp.24 trillion per annum
over the next five years, double the level in the 1984-88 period, while
decreasing oil revenues in the future may limit government support for
investment. Clearly, mobilizing private resources for long-term loan and
equity funding, in addition to meeting growing working capital needs, will
pose a significant challenge for the financial sector. Furthermore, the
growth of non-oil export activities and the emergence of new private
industries will require changes in financial practices: increased cash-flow
rather than asset-based lending, access to venture capital and equity, and
rapid credit processing.
Background
54.      The organized financial sector in Indonesia is dominated by its
banking system which controls over 852 of all assets. The banking system, in
turn, is dominated by the five large state banks. Until 1983, Bank Indonesia
imposed monetary control through credit ceilings and by setting most state
bank interest rates. Lending was influenced directly through a complex
liquidity credit mechanism, which provided subsidized loans to eligible
programs. The combination of interest rate controls, credit ceilings and the
unlimited provision of liquidity credits reduced the incentive to mobilize
financial savings and resulted in segmented deposit and loan markets.
55.      In June 1983, the Government took the first steps toward reforming
the financial sector, by deregulating state bank interest rates, replacing
credit ceilings with a system of reserve money management, and raising and
simplifying interest rates on subsidized credit programs. These reforms were
effective in spurring a rapid expansion in deposits and, to a limited extent,



- 21 -
increased competition among banks. Financial assets held by the banking
system rose from 18Z of GDP in 1982 to 29X in 1987, and private banks
increased their market share in spite of regulatory curbs on their expansion.
Yet, despite these improvements, differential regulations among
institutions--on branching, capital adequacy, lending limits and financial
service--resulted in continued fragmentation of the credit market,
characterized by large differences in access to credit and its cost for
:.ndividual borrowers. Such segmentation dampens competition, impedes
development of banking services and increases the cost of borrowing. The pace
of financial innovation after 1983 was also slow. With the exception of new
monetary instruments introduced in 1984 and 1985, the range of financial
assets and services has not widened appreciably. As a result, there are not
enough financial instruments available for either risk dispersion, or the term
and size transformation of funds.
Recent Policy Reforms
56.      In response to these concerns, the Government announced major
financial sector reforms in October and December 1988.91   The basic
objectives of these reforms are to enhance financial sector efficiency by
encouraging competition and to increase the availability of long-term finance
by promoting the development of the capital market. Steps were also taken to
improve the stability of the financial system, by strengthening prudential
regulations and monetary control.
57.      The highlights of these measures are as followss
o   the entry of new private banks, including joint ventures with
foreign banks, has been reopened;
o   restrictions on opening new branches of banks and non-bank
financial institutions (NBFIs) have been eased;
o   new rural banks may now be established in districts (outside
capitals);
o   the requirements to become a foreign exchange bank have been
eased;
o   public enterprises are now permitted to place up to 502 of their
deposits with private banks and NBFIs;
o   NBFIs are now allowed to issue certificates of deposit (CDs);
o   a 152 v:thholding tax has been levied on time deposits and CDs,
to eliu...ate the discrimination against other financial assets;
o   an aver-the-counter (OTC) market has been established to enable
smaller firms to issue shares;
o   the private sector is now allowed to operate stock exchanges in
Jakarta and other major cities;
91 Some of these measures were subsequently clarified on March 25, 1989.



- 22 -
o   banks and NBFIs are allowed to raise capital by issuing shares;
o   entry into insurance, leasing, venture capital, consumer finance
and securities activities has been eased;
o   loan concentration ratios have been defined for banks and NBFIs;
o   minimum capital requirements have been specified for banks and
NBFIs, and solvency ratios for insurance companies;
o   the differential reserve requirements for banks and liability
categories have been replaced with a uniform and lower rate of
22;
o   the maturities on monetary instruments have been extended, and
steps taken to develop the secondary market; and
o   the premium on foreign exchange swaps has been related to
interest rate differentials.
58.      These actions represent a dramatic departure from the past when
regulations facilitated the domination of state banks and prevented the
development of other segments of the financial market. The relaxation of
entry barriers will allow the private sector, domestic and foreign, to compete
with public financial institutions on a more equal basis. The resulting gain
in efficiency, together with the lower reserve requirements, should decrease
intermediation costs and improve banking practices. While implementation of
these changes will obviously take time, there are already signs that the
financial sector will be significantly altered. In response to the new
measures, there have been a large number of applications for setting up new
banks. By the end of February 1989, licenses had been approved for 7 new
national commercial banks, 3 joint ventures with foreign banks and
47 secondary banks. Several foreign banks are considering opening branches.
In addition, activity on the Jakarta stock exchange has picked up sharply
since October 1988, and the first issue on the new OTC market was successfully
completed in early 1989. Not surprisingly, monetary conditions were initially
unsettled after the financial sector reforms were announced. However, the
situation has now returned to normal, with inter-bank rates around 12-152 and
no evidence of private capital flight.
59.      In response to the recent reforms, the financial sector is expected
to undergo a major restructuring over the next few years, with increased
competition over a broader range of financial services among a larger number
of institutions. The immediate priority for follow-up is therefore to
strengthen further the Government's capacity for prudential regulation,
especially in the area of bank supervision. Technical assistance for this
purpose has been requested from the DMF and ADB. After monitoring the
financial sector's response to the recent deregulation measures, the
Government plans to introduce new legislation to codify and streamline the
regulatory framework for the central bank, commercial banks, insurance
companies and pension funds. At the same time, it will be important to
conduct audits of the state banks, to identify needs for restructuring and



- 23 -
recapitalization. Finally, the Government is committed to reducing the role
of subsidized credits from Bank Indonesia, by reducing the share of bank
credit channelled through this mechanism, limiting the number of eligible
programs, and bringing interest rates closer to market levels. These changes
will have a positive impact on the allocative efficiency of investment and
banking system incentives.
PART III - THE BANK STRATEGY FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT IN INDONESIA
60.      By any standard, the Government's efforts to restore macroeconomic
stability and to accelerate the process of structural change have been
remarkably successful. The agenda for policy reform has been well
developed and the Government's credibility for making difficult but correct
decisions has been clearly established in the period since 1983. The World
Bank has played an important role in these accomplishments. In particular,
the Bank has maintained a very close policy dialogue with the Government
based on the economic and sector work program and technical assistance from
the Resident Staff in Indonesia. At the same time, the annual economic
reports, combined with the two adjustment loans (TPAL I and II), have
enabled the Bank to play a catalytic role in mobilizing substantial
additional external assistance from the Inter-Governmental Group on
Indonesia (IGGI) to support the adjustment effort.
Macroeconomic Policies
61.      The Bank's analysis and policy dialogue have supported the
Government's efforts to define appropriate policy responses to emerging
issues of macroeconomic management. Since the collapse of oil prices in
1986, we have focussed on five major policy areass (a) exchange rate
management, to respond to external shocks and maintain the competitiveness
of non-oil exports; (b) prudent fiscal and monetary policies, to reduce
aggregate demand and control inflationary pressures; (c) public resource
mobilization, through more effective tax administration and improved cost
recovery; (d) more focussed expenditure priorities, especially for O&M and
poverty-related programs; and (e) external debt management and borrowing
strategy. During the coming year, we expect to continue working with the
Government on its macroeconomic policies, with special emphasis on external
debt management, public resource mobilization and fiscal policy.
Incentives and Regulatory Framework
62.      The World Bank prepared major studies on trade and industrial
policy issues in 1981 and 1985. These studies helped to identify the costs
of the complex regulatory environment in Indonesia, and to show the broad
directions for future policy change. With the subsequent decline in oil
prices, the push for reforms within Indonesia gathered momentum. To
support this effort, the Bank provided analytical inputs on reforms in the
trade regime and regulatory environment. Measures taken in 1986 and 1987
were supported under two trade policy adjustment loans. The related
analysis provided by Bank staff will be formally presented in two studies
--on enterprise regulations and on trade policy reform and implementation
--to be completed later in 1989. A follow-up study on the corporate legal



- 24 -
framework is to start shortly. Bank staff will also continue to work
closely with the officials involved in preparing trade policy and
regulatory reforms, and provide technical assistance as required to develop
the Government's own analytical capability.
63.      One of the important lessons that has emerged from restructuring
programs in other countries has been that broad changes in trade and
regulatory policies must be complemented with more specific programs of
assistance to help individual firms adjust to the new policy environment.
For this reason the Bank is planning a series of operations to assist
individual industrial enterprises respond to the changing trade and
regulatory framework and to overcome the effects of past constraints. The
first Industrial Restructuring Project, approved by the Board in April
1989, will support restructuring of enterprises in the textiles, pulp and
paper, and engineering sectors. Subsequent operations could focus on wood
processing, electronics, agro-industries and packaging. In addition to
financial assistance (through the banking system), these operations will
provide technical assistance for the development and strengthening of
subsector-specific support services, and will also help to implement and
monitor environmental standards.
64.      We have approached domestic pricing issues through a number of
avenues. A Bank-financed energy pricing policy study is currently
underway, and will provide a basis for furthering our dialogue on the
pricing of primary energy resources. We have also had extensive
discussions with the Government over the past year on power tariffs, in the
context of preparing two major power projects (scheduled to be presented to
the Board in June 1989). The case for reducing fertilizer and pesticide
subsidies was raised in the recent agricultural incentives study and
fertilizer industry sector report. Our dialogue with the Government on
these issues is continuing, and related policy changes could form part of a
package to be supported by a proposed agriculture sector loan.
Public Enterprise Reforms
65.      As already noted, the Goverument is expected to divest or
reorganize several public enterprises in the near future. The IFC is
supporting this effort through a study of private participation in state-
owned hotels. In addition, follow-up action will be required to review the
relationship between the Government and the remaining public enterprises,
to ensure proper autonomy and accountability in their operations. To date,
the Government has not requested World Bank assistance in this area.
However, we have highlighted these issues again during a recent mission
and, as noted in the Policy Statement, the Government recognizes the need
to formulate a broader plan of action for the public enterprise sector.
Infrastructure and Supporting Services
66.      The Bank has a long history of involvement with the development of
infrastructure in the economy. In the past, about 42? of our lending has
gone to direct support of infrastructure investments in power, roads and
other transport facilities, irrigation, municipal water supply and
sanitation. In the next five years, we plan to allocate about half of
lending to these sectors.



- 25 -
67.      In the housing sector, continuing Bank support for the expansion
of the housing finance system and its integration into the financial sector
vill provide increasing opportunities for the private sector in mortgage
finance as well as housing production.
68.      In the case of the power sector we have made a major contribution
not only to the expansion of physical capacity but also to improving the
management and financial performance of the public utility (PLN). It now
has the capacity to implement an annual investment program of more than
US$1.0 billion, with annual new consumer connections exceeding one million.
Key objectives for future Bank support includes improving the efficiency of
PLN operations; enabling PLN to become more commercially-oriented and
financially self-supporting; maintaining electricity prices at economically
and financially appropriate levels; assisting in the preparation and
implementation of a least-cost investment program; and guiding and
supporting institutional development in the sector to meet evolving needs.
Two major power projects are scheduled to be presented to the Board in June
1989. An important review of options for further institutional development
in the sector, based on a panel of experts, is currently underway and is
receiving high-level support from government officials.
69.      Direct support for the telecommunications sector is more recent.
A technical assistance project for the telecommunications utility
(PERtMTEL) is now under implementation, and the Bank's five-year lending
program includes two projects to assist in the expansion of physical
capacity and the further strengthening of PERUMTEL. A major
telecommunications sector review has been initiated to identify ways to
increase the productivity and efficiency of the sector, and the results
will be incorporated in the design of those projects. Issues to be covered
include, inter alia, the autonomy and commercial orientation of PERUMTEL,
the regulation and supervision of the sector, and the scope for greater
private sector participation.
70.      Past Bank involvement in the transport sector has focused
primarily on the expansion and maintenance of the road network, with some
financial assistance for national ports development and technical
assistance for the railways sector. While the roads network has expanded
significantly, transport sector efficiency (including inter-modal
connections), and the overall quality of transport services, is low. The
priority being given to the development of the non-oil sectors of the
economy, and especially the expansion of non-oil exports, has led to
increasing Government awareness of the need for a more coherent strategy
and policy framework for this sector. The Bank's Transport Sector Overview
was recently discussed with the Government and the results are expected to
be incorporated into future lending, including two sector-wide, policy-
based operations over the next three years. Policy reforms will focus
primarily on improving the regulatory framework for the roads and maritime
subsectors, including an expanded role for private sector firms. Bank
support for the urban sector is rather more advanced, with the concept of
integrated urban infrastructure development programs (IUIDP) now under
implementation in most of the larger urban centers. Further progress in



- 26 -
key policy areas, including the devolution of authority to local
governments for the development and maintenance of urban infrastructure, is
being supported by the FY87 Urban Sector Loan.
71.      To ensure the availability of skilled labor, the Bank's lending
and ESW programs include substantial support for the improvement of
education quality at all levels, the expansion of primary education and
increasing attention to non-formal education. Support for higher-level
skills development has included science and technology training,
accountancy development and human resource development in the health and
tree crops sectors. In addition, a number of training modes for employment
in the private sector are also being developed under two ongoing projects,
and are expected to assist the Government in developing an overall training
strategy.
Financial Sector Development
72.      Financial sector performance will have to improve significantly to
support increasing private sector investment. This will require improved
resource mobilization Rnd allocation, and better operating efficiency of
financial institutions, some of which may need restructuring to remain
viable. Private financial savings will be encouraged by extending the
banks' branch network, introducing a broader range of assets with a variety
of term, risk and return profiles, and by developing an active capital
market. Resource allocation will have to be improved by reducing the role
of subsidized credits. Increasing competition in the sector is expected to
result in better operating efficiency of financial institutions, especially
in strengtheaing their capacity for project appraisal and loan collections.
Finally, some financial institutions with poorly performing loan portfolios
will have to be restructured and prudential supervision for the sector
improved to ensure the future health of the financial system.
73.      At the request of the Government, the Bank initiated a major study
of the financial sector in 1988. The main mission visited Indonesia in
July 1988 and its preliminary findings fed into the reforms announced later
in the year. The completed report will be the basis for a continuing
dialogue with the Government on financial sector policies. Progress in
reforming the sector is expected to continue focussed on: increasing
private sector participation in savings, financial institution growth and
loans; and, improving allocative and operational efficiency by encouraging
greater market orientation. During this reform phase, the Bank will
continue to support operations in the productive sectors that use the
financial sector as an intermediary, provided these operations reinforce
the direction of financial sector reforms. In agriculture, rural financial
institutions need to be strengthened, and an integrated market-oriented
credit delivery system has to be developed in parallel with the
consolidation and phasing out of subsidized credit schemes. In industry,
the Bank will continue to support credit lines to finance small- and
medium-sized firms with substantial export potential that are currently
unable to secure financing on appropriate terms. In addition to financial
support, technical assistance will be incorporated in these operations to
enhance the appraisal capacity of the participating banks and non-bank
financial institutions.



- 27 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan Rationale and Objectives
74.      As reviewed in Part III, the World Bank has maintained a close and
constructive dialogue with the Government of Indonesia on the ongoing
adjustment program and policy reforms related to private sector
development. Actions taken in 1986 and 1987 were supported by two trade
policy adjustment loans (TPAL I and II).101   Since then, the Government
has continued to make good progress on the "areas for follow-up" noted in
the Policy Framework for TPAL II. Macroeconomic management has remained on
track, with a clear Government commitment to and success in maintaining a
competitive exchange rate, maintaining prudent budgetary and external debt
policies, and expanding non-oil tax revenues. Implementation of the
earlier trade reforms has been generally quite effective, and significant
additional steps have been taken to reduce NTBs. A revised tariff schedule
based on the harmonized system was introduced on January 1, 1989.
Furthermore, the deregulation drive has been extended, with major reforms
in investment licensing, maritime transport regulations and financial
sector policies.
75.      The objectives of the proposed loan of US$350 million equivalent
are to develop the private sector by: (a) supporting the substantial
reforms undertaken by the Government during 1988 and early 1989, and
ensuring that they are implemented well; (b) assisting the Government to
bring about an early recovery in economic activity, consistent with
external and internal financial stability; and (c) maintaining the policy
dialogue on further reforms to promote the efficiency and longer-term
viability of the economy. These objectives would bc achieved in part
through support to the balance of payments provided by the proposed loan
and in part through our ongoing dialogue on policy issues. As part of this
dialogue, the Bank will complete during 1989 studies on enterprise
regulations, financial sector development, and trade policy reform and
implementation. The loan would directly contribute to the financing needs
for quick disbursing assistance, and would provide the rationale for
mobilizing a targetted level of US$1.8 billion of quick-disbursing
assistance from official donors, needed to finance the balance of payments
and underpin the adjustment program during 1989/90.
76.      The justification for the loan is based on che actions taken by
the Government over the past year in the following five areas:
o Macroeconomic management. Implementation of a prudent budget for
1988/89, including a major effort to increase non-tax revenues and
further cuts in capital spending. The primary balance is
estimated to be in surplus, while net domestic expenditure fell
from 3.8? of GDP in 1987/88 to 2.22 in 1988/89. The real
effective exchange rate depreciated by 4? over the year to October
1988.
10/ The Project Completion Reports for TPAL I and II were submitted to OED
in June 1988 and May 1989 respectively.



- 28 -
o Trade policy. Further removal of import licensing restrictions in
areas such as plastics, fertilizer and agricultural products.
Coverage of NTBs reduced from 382 to 292 of domestic production.
Apart from 11 footwear items, all related tariff and surcharge
changes remain within the lower ceiling (60Z) established in March
1985. Indonesia moved to a tariff schedule based on the new
Harmonized System on January 1, 1989.
O Investment licensinR. Move to a short negative investment
licensing list in April 1989. This change opened up additional
sectors to domestic and foreign investment, and made the licensing
process transparent and less discretionary.
O Maritime transport. Suspension of the compulsory scrapping policy
for ships in February 1988. Second package in November 1988
completed deregulation of shipping industry by: (a) reducing and
simplifying business licensing procedures; (b) allowing shipping
lines to determine their own route structures and schedules; and
(c) allowing national lines to charter foreign flag vessels and
form new joint venture companies with foreign lines.
O Financial sector development. Introduction of major reforms to
enhance financial sector efficiency by encouraging competition and
to increase the availability of long-term capital by promoting the
development of the capital market. Entry has been reopened for
private banks, including joint ventures with private banks. Steps
have also been taken to improve the stability of the financial
sector, by strengthening prudential regulations and monetary
control.
77.      The Private Sector Development loan is conceived as the third in a
series of loans (following TPAL I and TPAL II) aimed at adjustment and
structural change. Further adjustment lending would be contingent upon
satisfactory progress in undertaking additional policy reforms in the core
areas identified in Section C below. The Government's commitment to this
policy agenda is set out in the Policy Statement (Annex IV).
B. Loan Administration
Disbursement
78.      The proposed loan of US$350 million equivalent would be available for
disbursement upon loan effectiveness and would be used to reimburse 100% of
foreign expenditures for eligible imports for which payments are made after
the date of loan signing. The list of ineligible imports for the purposes of
this loan would be standard, i.e., goods intended for military or paramilitary
purposes, or for luxury consumption; goods financed from other official
multilateral or bilateral sources; uranium; and goods procured under contracts
of less than US$100,000. Disbursement for reimbursement of eligible import
expenditures would be based on documentation prepared by Societe Generale de
Surveillance S.A. (SGS) in the course of their customs inspection services.
In the case of Indonesia, SGS certification provides particularly strong



- 29 -
assurance under the system established by INPRES 4/1985. The SGS certificate
provides verification of the goods being imported including the quality and
quantity of imports and the applicable prevailing C&F export market price in
the country of supply. The SGS certificate is also required for the release
of the goods at the port of entry. The SGS certificate would, therefore.
provide all the information needed to ensure compliance with eligibility
requirements for purposes of the Bank loan. Disbursement for eligible import
expenditures would be based on Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for imports
valued at less than US$5 million; for imports valued above this amount full
documentation would be provided. Applications for withdrawals based on SOEs
would be submitted in amounts not less than US$1 million and supporting
documentation would be retained by Bank Indonesia. All of the proceeds of the
proposed loan are expected to be disbursed by March 31, 1990.
Procurement
79.      Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost US$5 million or
more each, would be procured through International Competitive Bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts under US$5 million each would be
awarded on the basis of normal procurement practices of the purchaser and
would be processed on the basis of statement of expenditures described above.
Accounts and Audits
80.      Bank Indonesia would maintain loan accounts and supporting
documentation, as in the case of the previous two trade policy adjustment
loans. An audit review of the loan accounts and supporting documentation of
the first Trade Policy Adjustment Loan is to be completed shortly. For the
Private Sector Development Loan, an audit would be carried out by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank within nine months of the closing of the GOI
fiscal year in which final disbursements under the loan are made.
C. Monitoring and Follow-up
61.      The Bank will monitor closely, through frequent consultation with the
Government, progress on implementation of the recent policy measures and
follow-up actions. The main areas for follow-up to support private sector
development are set out in Annexes IV and V. This is a very broad agenda,
reflecting the progress already made on stabilizing the economy and the
Government's commitment to push the process of regulatory reform into new
areas. In determining the priorities for policy reform within this broad
agenda, a number of principles will be important. First, sound macroeconomic
management will remain a key prerequisite for improving the incentives for
private sector activities. Second, it is important for the Government to
ensure that recent reform measures--in the areas of trade policy, investment
licensing, maritime transport and the financial sector--are fully implemented,
so that the benefits are fully realized by the private sector. Third, the
Government needs to continue with the process of regulatory reform. In some
areas--such as removal of NTBs, opening new sectors to investment, public
enterprise divestiture and improving banking supervision--the priorities for
the coming year are clear. However, in others--such as rationalizing tariffs,
revising local regulations and the corporate legal framework, and improving



- 30 -
the policy framework for public enterprises--the next step is to undertake
further analysis, in preparation for future reforms.
82.      The actual pace of policy reform during the coming year will depend
in part upon the completion of background analyticsl work and the timing of
political opportunities. However, we will work with the Government to make
progress as rapid and broad-based as possible. As discussed in Part III,
parts of the policy agenda--especially in the areas of agriculture,
infrastructure and human resource development--will be supported through other
operations of the Bank. The core areas of actions for the immediate future
would include:
o  Prudent macroeconomic management during 1989/90 to: (a) maintain a
primary surplus in the Central Government's budget; and (b) avoid any
real effective appreciation of the Rupiah. Given the projected
external environment, these policies are expected to hold the current
account deficit to below 31 of GNP and inflation within the
single-digit range.
O  Implementation of the Government's program for public resource
mobilization, including strengthened tax administration, extension of
the tax base, and improvements in cost recovery for public services.
Raise the ratio of non-oil tax revenues to non-oil GDP by at least
one percentage point during 1989190.
o Prudent external borrowing strategy, including a strict limit on
import-related credits and reduced dependence on special assistance
in 1989/90. Strengthen institutional arrangements for external debt
management.
o  Further progress on reducing NTBs and rationalizing import tariffs,
based on improved capacity within the Government for analysis of
trade and industrial policy issues. Reduce the proportion of
domestic production covered by NTBs from 292 to the range of 20-242.
O  Continued relaxation and simplification of regulatory framework.
Open up new sectors to domestic and foreign investment. Relax
ownership and other restrictions on foreign investment. Review
remaining constraints in local regulations, land and labor laws, and
the corporate legal framework.
o  Implementation of proposed divestiture and reorganization of public
enterprises (including joint ventures with the private sector and
share issues). Review the policy framework for the sector and
prepare a broader plan of action for public enterprise reform.
o  Implementation of recent financial sector reforms.  Strengthen the
Government's capacity for bank supervision. Introduce new
legislation to codify and simplify the regulatory framework, and
undertake audits of the state banks. Reduce the role of subsidized
credits by reducing the size and scope of eligible programs, and
raising interest rates closer to market levels.



- 31 -
The Government's commitment to this policy agenda is set out in the Policy
Statement (Annex IV).
D. Program Benefits and Risks
83.      The policy measures taken by the Government over the past year will
substantially improve the climate for private sector development, by:
(a) providing a stable macroeconomic setting; (b) developing a less
distortionary trade regime; (c) reducing regulatory restrictions on investment
and maritime transport; and (d) promoting a more competitive and responsive
financial system. Positive benefits of the ongoing adjustment process are
already evident in the recent performance of the economy, especially the
strong growth of non-oil exports, investment approvals and manufacturing
activity. In all of these areas, the private sector is now playing a much
larger role than in the early 19809. The principal risk is that the far-
reaching nature of these reforms could encounter domestic opposition as they
are implemented and extended. This risk is offset by the positive responses
to e,rlier reforms and the Government's demonstrated commitment to carry out
difficult and sensitive policy measures.
PART V - RELATIONS WITH IMF
84.      The latest IMP Consultation Report was issued on April 6, 1989.  The
Government of Indonesia has not had any standby or extended arrangements with
the IMF since 1973. The Government's last purchase from the IMF was for
SDR 463 million in May 1987 under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF).
This purchase increased Indonesia's total outstanding IMF obligations to
SDR 463 mlillion at the end of 1988. After the last Consultation Report (in
1988), the IMF Executive Board expressed its satisfaction that "Indonesia
maintains an exchange system which is free of restrictions on payments and
transfers for current international transactions.' Effective May 7, 1988, the
Government of Indonesia has accepted Article VIII status.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 16, 1989



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
KEY NACROECONOIIC INDICATORS La
Esti-
Actuals               mates                  Projections
1982    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
GOP Growth Rate                        -0.3     1.7      3.7     3.9      4.7     5.2      4.6     5.0      5.0     5.2
Non-oil GOP Growth Rate                 4.2     3.8      3.9     4.6      5.6     5.6      5.9     6.1      6.2     6.3
GNP Growth Rate                        -0.8     2.7      4.9     4.1      4.7     5.7      4.7     5.1      5.2     5.3
GNP/Capita Growth Rate                 -2.8    -0.4      2.9     2.1      2.7     3.7      2.7     3.3      3.3     3.5
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate          3.9    -1.3      0.7     1.3      2.9     2.2     2.2      1.9      3.1     2.5
Total DOD /b (in USS billion)          23.0    31.6    37.6    46.8    47.5    51.1    53.3    55.5    57.0    58.3
DOD/XGS /c                            115.9   158.9   247.7   Z36.8   220.8   216.9   204.0   192.5   179.6   166.8
DOD/GDP                                24.2    37.2    49.4    67.0    61.0    60.1    57.7    55.1    51.9    48.8
Debt Service (in USS billion)           3.3     4.8      5.7     6.7      7.8     8.7     9.0      9.0      9.6    10.3
Debt Service/XGS                       16.8    24.4    37.3    33.9    36.3    37.1    34.4    31.4    30.4    29.3
Interest/XGS                            7.5    10.5    16.1    14.0    13.8    13.1    12.3    11.3    10.6         9.8
Interest/GDP                            3.6     2.0      2.0     1.5      1.3     1.2     1.1      0.9      0.8     0.7
Gross Investment/GDP                   29.1    24.3    23.4    23.2    22.2    22.6    22.8    23.7    24.1    24.9
Domestic Savings/GDP                   26.4    27.1    ?2.7    25.6    25.5    25.5    25.7    26.8    27.2    28.0
National Savings/GDP                   22.6    22.0    17.9    19.9    19.8    20.4    20.9    22.2    22.9    23.9
Marginal National Savings Rate          6.5    -0.5      1.7     0.6      0.3     0.3     0.3      0.4      0.3     0.4
Public Investment/GOP                  12.3    10.9      9.8     9.5     9.3      8.9     9.0      9.2      9.4     9.6
Public Savings/GDP /d                   8.2     8.6      5.2     5.9      5.6     6.0     6.9      7.5      8.0     8.4
Private Investment/GDP                 13.6     9.9    10.7    10.4    11.0    11.8    12.5    13.1    13.5    14.0
Private Savings/GDP /d                 14.4    13.4    12.7    14.0    14.2    14.4    14.0    14.7    14.9    15.5
Ratio of Public/Private Investmert   90.4   109.5    91.7    90.9    84.7    76.1    71.8    70.8    70.0    68.5
ICOR /e                                                 8.1      6.1     5.3      5.1     4.3      4.1     4.0      4.0
Government Revenues/GDP                18.3    19.8    16.4    18.3    17.3
Government Expenditures/GDP            22.7    22.6    20.3    20.7    20.1
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+)/GDP         -4.4    -2.8    -3.9    -2.4    -2.8
Export Growth Rate                    -13.1    -1.4      4.6     6.1      5.3     6.5     4.6      3.9      3.1     3.3
Non-oil Export Growth Rate             -1.1    10.1      3.2    25.8    13.6    11.9      9.8      8.0      7.9     8.0
Exports/GDP                            20.9    23.4    20.0    28.3    27.6    27.7    28.3    28.6    28.9    29.3
Import Growth Rate                      3.3    -7.3   -17.4      1.5     3.7      6.6     6.7      6.2     6.8      7.1
Imports/G6P                           28.8    26.0    25.5    30.9    30.4    30.2    30.5    30.4    30.4    30.6
Current Account (USS billion)          -7.3    -2.0    -4.0    -1.6    -1.9    -1.8    -1.7    -1.4    -1.3    -1.2
Current Account/GDP                    -7.7    -2.3    -5.3    -2.2    -2.4    -2.1    -1.8    -1.4    -1.2    -1.0
Terms of Trade Index                  109.5    93.2    62.5    71.5    69.7    68.6    70.4    72.2    74.7    77.3
Oil Price (US$/bbl)                    33.2    25.0    12.5    17.6    15.1    15.5    16.6    17.6    18.6    19.7
La Balance of payments and budget data are for fiscal years (starting April 1). Other indicators are for
calendar years.
Lb Debt outstanding and disbursed.
Lc Exports of goods and services.
id These are "national" not "domestic" savings.
/e Five-year average, one year lag.



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Paoe 2 of 2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS La
(USS billion at current prices)
Est i-
Actual$               mates                  Projections _          _   __
1982    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
A. Exports of Goods S NFS              19.0    19.1    14.4    18.8    20.8    22.8    25.4    28.0    30.8    34.0
1. Nerchandise (FOB)                 18.7    18.5    13.7    18.0    19.8    21.5    23.8    26.3    28.9    31.9
2. Non-factor Services                0.3     0.6     0.7      0.8     1.0      1.4     1.6      1.7     1.9      2.1
B. Imports of Goods & NFS              22.6    16.8    15.0    16.6    18.3    20.4    22.6    24.8    27.4    30.3
1. Merchandise (FOB)                20.6    14.4    12.7    14.3    15.5    17.5    19.4    21.4    23.7    26.3
2. Non-factor Services                2.0     2.5     2.3      2.3     2.7      2.9     3.2      3.4     3.6      3.9
C. Resource Balance                    -3.7     2.2    -0.6      2.2     2.5      2.4     2.8      3.2     3.5      3.8
D. Net Factor Income                   -3.8    -4.4    -3.7    -4.2    -4.8    -4.6    -5.0    -5.2    -5.3    -5.5
1. Factor Receipts                   0.8      0.7     0.7      0.7     0.6      0.6     0.6     0.7      0.8     0.8
2. Factor Payments                    4.6     5.1     4.4      4.9     5.4      5.2     5.6      5.9     6.1      6.3
(interest payments)               1.7      2.5     2.8     3.1      3.5     3.7      3.8     3.8      3.9     3.9
E. Net Current Transfers /b             0.1     0.2     0.3      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.6
1. Current Receipts      -           0.1      0.2     0.3      0.4     0.4     0.4      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.6
a. workers remittances               0.0     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.2
b. other curr. transfers            0.1      0.2     0.2      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4
2. Current Payments                   0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
F. Current Account Balance             .7.3    -1.9    -4.0    -1.6    -1.9    -1.8    -1.7    -1.4    -1.3    -1.2
(Including Off. Trans.)
G. Long-Term Capital Inflow             3.9     2.2      3.1     3.0     3.4      2.6     2.9      3.0     2.4      2.3
1. Direct Investment                 0.3      0.3     0.3      0.5     0.3     0.5      0.6     0.8      0.9     1.0
2. Net LT Loans (ORS)                 4.0     1.3     2.7      2.2     2.7      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.0     0.8
a. Disbursements                  5.1      3.9     5.2      6.1     7.1     6.5      6.6     6.3      5.9     6.1
b. Repayments                     1.1      2.5     2.5      3.9     4.4     4.7      4.8     4.5      4.9     5.3
3. Other LT Inflows (net)            -0.4     0.6     0.1      0.3     0.4      0.3     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5
H. Total Other Items                    0.1     0.7    -2.0    -0.2    -2.2       0.0    -0.1    -0.1    -0.0    -0.0
1. Net Short-term Capital             1.0    -0.2    -0.2      1.1     0.5     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
2. Capital Flows N.E.I.              -0.9     0.9    -1.9    -1.3    -2.8       0.0    -0.1    -0.1    -0.0    -0.0
3. Errors a Omissions                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
1. Changes in Net Foreign Assets        3.3    -0.9     3.0    -1.1      0.8    -0.9    -1.2    -1.5    -1.1    -1.1
1. Net Credit From IMF               0.1    -0.3      0.0      0.6     0.0      0.0    -0.2    -0.3    -0.2      0.0
2. Other Changes                      3.3    -0.7     3.0    -1.7      0.8    -0.9    -1.0    -1.2    -0.9    -1.1
Shares of GDP (Current USS):
1. Resource Balance                    -3.9     2.6   '-0.7      3.1     3.2      2.8     3.0     3.2      3.2     3.1
2. Total Interest Payments              1.8     2.9      3.4     4.3     4.5      4.3     4.1      3.8     3.5      3.3
3. Current Account Balance             -7.7    -2.3    -5.0    -2.3    -2.4    -2.1    -1.8    -1.4    -1.2    -1.0
4. LT Capital Inflow                    4.1     2.6      3.8     4.1     4.4      3.1     3.1      2.9     2.2      1.9
S. Net Credit from IMF                  0.1    -0.3     0.0      0.8     0.0      0.0    -0.2    -0.3    -0.1      0.0
Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. Inter. Reserves (IFS)                3.1     5.0     4.1      5.6
2. Sold (London Price)                  1.4     1.0      1.2     1.5
3. Total Net Foreign Assets             7.5    12.6     9.6    10.8
Exchange Rates (Ruoiah/USS):
1. Rom. Off. X-Rate (IFS)            661.0  1111.0  1283.0  1643.8  1696.2
2. Real Eff. X-Rate(1983-100)         122.8    94.1    72.5    53.3    51.4
La These are Indonesian fiscal year accounts.
/b Includes official grants.



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1989) la
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
number   year             Purpose                        Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Sixty-three Loans and forty-seven Credits fully        4,469.30   890.45    -
disbursed
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -      12.00      1.90
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV         30.00    -         6.81
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.00    -         5.95
1904    1981   University Development                     45.00    -         1.94
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V         116.56    -        35.02
2049    1981   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.00    -        27.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.00    -         1.03
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development        183.86    -        15.19
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    79.59    -        13.30
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.00    -         0.05
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.00    -         2.38
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java)         70.00    -        10.63
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI         49.00    -        28.98
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                             300.00    -        78.10
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII    135.23    -           87.17
2235    1983   Provincial Health                          24.80    -         5.46
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation            22.40    -         7.69
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development          30.00    -         2.06
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                     30.60    -         0.80
/a    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all BankI1DA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 35 -
Anne% II
Page 2 of 4
Loan/                                                       Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
number   year             Purpose                       Bank    TDA   Undisbursed
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                            177.90    -        29.05
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                         53.50    -        28.57
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                       107.40    -        22.72
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                         279.00    -        22.08
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training               63.30    -        13.07
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar    70.30    -          1S.86
2355    1984   Second Nonformal Education                43.00    -         5.54
2404    1984   Highway Department                       240.00    -        20.90
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                   39.25    -         6.07
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                  65.00    -        37.91
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                         210.00    -        33.08
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                               78.00    -        41.49
2474    1985   Upl&nd Agriculture and Conservation       11.30    -         9.52
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II        109.00    -        86.23
2529    1985   Fourth Population                         35.13    -        17.25
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)    39.00    -          28.09
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Mulipurpose Dam and
irrigation                            156.00    -        83.13
2547    1985   Second University Development            147.00    -        95.80
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Development              43.40    -        28.64
2577    1985   National Ports Development               111.00    -        82.63
2578    1985   Transmigration V                          97.00    -        45.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training           93.00    -        36.76
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development            32.00    -        18.62
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply             43.30    -        13.88
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health   33.40    -          22.10
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support         33.00    -        19.60
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation         166.00    -       128.62
2690    1986   Gas Distribution                          34.00    -        25.03
2702    1986   Export Development                        64.50    -        21.78
2705    1986   Manpower Development and Training         58.10    -        35.44
2717    1986   Highway Maintenance and Betterment       300.00    -        47.16
2725    1986   Housing Sector Loan                      200.00    -        16.47



- 36 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
Loan/                                                       Amount (USS million)
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
number   year             Purpose                       Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
2748    1987   Third National Agricultural Extension   55.00    -         43.11
2757    1987   Telecommunications Technical Assistance 14.50    -           7.61
2773    1987   Fisheries Support Services                24.50    -       21.62
2778    1987   Power Transmission & Distribution        226.00    -      173.54
2800    1987   BRIIKUPEDES Small Credit                 101.50    -       45.05
2816    1987   Urban Sector Loan                        270.00    -       34.25
2817    1987   Regional Cities Urban Transport           51.00    -       27.11
2879    1988   Industrial Energy Conservation            21.00    -       20.17
2880    1988   Irrigation Subsector                     234.00    -      158.72
2881    1988   Second Rural Roads Development           190.00    -      174.72
2891    1988   Railway Technical Assistance              28.00    -       25.70
2930    1988   Forestry Institutions & Conservation    34.00    -         31.85
2932    1988   Jabotabek Urban Development              150.00    -      144.00
2940    1988   Accountancy Development                  113.00    -      111.00
2944    1988   Higher Education Development             140.30    -      123.30
2979    1988   Second Export Development                165.00    -      161.49
2992    1989   Tree Crop Human Resource Development    18.40    -         17.89
3000    1989   Tree Crop Processing                     118.20    -      118.20
3031    1989   Agriculture Research Management la        35.30    -       35.30
Total Bank loans and IDA credits    11,005.82  902.45
Of which has been repaid              1,383.98   41.42
Total now outstanding                 9,621.84  861.03
Amount sold to third party               88.08    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA lb    9,533.76  861.03
Total undisbursed                                       2,948.60
/a   Not yet effective.
b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 37 -
Annex I1
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1989)
(US$ million)
Undisbursed
Original         Total      including
Fiscal                          Type of          commitments        held   participants
year            Obligor         business    Loan Equity Total    by IFC       portion
1971174     P.T. Primatexco       Textiles
& fibers    4.0   0.8    4.8       -
1971        P.T. Unitex             Textiles
& fibers    2.5   0.8    3.3       0.8      -
19711731    P.T. Semen Cibinong  Cement         46.0   5.8   51.8       1.6     -
74176184
1971        P.T. Kabel Indonesia Cables          2.8   0.3    3.1       -
1972177179  P.T. Daralon Textile Textiles
Manufacturing Corp.    & fibers    5.9   1.5    7.4         -
1973189     P.T. Jakarta          Tourism        9.8   2.7   12.5       2.7      -
International Hotel
1974        P.T. Private          Development
Development Finance    finance      -      0.5    0.5      0.4      -
Company of Indonesia
1974        P.T. Monsanto         Electronics   0.9   -        0.9      -
1974        P.T. Kamaltex         Textiles       3.7   0.8    4.5       -
1980        P.T. Papan Sejahtera Housing
finance     4.0   1.2    5.2       1.2      -
1980        P.T. Supreme Indo-   Dinnerware   11.1   0.9   12.0         -       _
American
1980/85187  P.T. Semen Andalas   Cement         48.5   5.0   53.5      22.6     -
1982185     P.T. Saseka Gelora   Leasing         5.0   0.4    5.4       0.4     -
Leasing
1985        P.T. Asuransi Jiva   Insurance       -     0.3    0.3       0.3     -
1986        P.T. Bali Holiday    Tourism        11.3   -     11.3       3.5     -
1987        P.T. Monterado        Mining         8.0   2.0   10.0       5.5     0.4
Total                                        163.5  23.0  186.5      39.0     0.4
1987        P.T. Kalteng La       Mining         -     1.4    1.4       1.4     1.4
1989        P.T. Agro Muko la    Agri. bus.   10.5   2.2   12.7        12.7    12.7
La  Agreements not yet signed as of March 31, 1989.



-38 -                       ANME III
IMDONESIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project        I  3 months
(b) Agency which prepared project         t  BAPPENAS
(c) Pirst presentation to the Bank        s  December 1988
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission       s  February 1989
(e)  Completion of negotiations           5  May 1989
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness        s  June 1989
Section II: Special Bank ImPlementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
None



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 10
Jakarta, May 10. 1989
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C.
USA
Dear Mr. President:
Government's Statement on Economic Policy
1.       The Government of Indonesia wishes to request a loan from the World
Bank in support of private sector development. This loan would be the third
in a series of ad4ustment operations, following two earlier loans for trade
policy adjustment (approved in February 1987 and May 1988). This letter
provides a description of the current economic situation, the measures which
the Government has taken and the direction of future policy actions.
Progress on Economic Adjustment
2.       The external environment faced by Indonesia has worsened considerably
since the early 19809. The combination of sharply lower oil prices and, more
recently, depreciation of the US Dollar has severely constrained the resource
position in the balance of payments and the budget. The Government has
responded to this challenge by taking decisive actions to restrain domestic
demand, mobilize additional resources and set in train the structural changes
needed to develop the non-oil economy. In our previous two letters to you,
dated December 19, 1986 and February 29, 1988, we described the various
measures taken in 1986 and 1987. These included austere budgets for 1986/87
and 1987188, the 31Z devaluation of the Rupiah in September 1986, and a series
of trade and industrial policy reforms. Over the past year, these adjustment
efforts have been sustained and extended.
3.       A central element of the Government's adjustment program has been
prudent and sound macroeconomic policies. Another austere budget has been
implemented during 1988/89, with no increase in civil service salaries and
further reductions in real development spending. Expenditure priorities



-40-                        ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 10
emphasized operations and maintenance (O&M) and various poverty-related
programs: social services, agriculture and regional transfers. Special
attention was given to improving the non-oil tax effort, to offset the loss of
oil revenues and maintain an appropriate fiscal stance. Monetary policy was
also tightened, as reflected in the declining growth rate of reserve money.
These prudent fiscal and monetary policies have helped to contain domestic
inflation. At the same time, the nominal value of the Rupiah has been
gradually depreciated against a basket of currencies. As a result, the real
effective exchange rate has continued to decline, preserving the competitive
advantage provided by the devaluation in September 1986.
4.       The Government's macroeconomic policies have created a stable
environment for private sector development. In addition, the Government has
promoted efficient development of the private sector through a series of
regulatory reforms. As reviewed below, substantial progress has been made
over the past year in the areas of trade policy. investmenw licensing,
maritime transport and financial sector development. Together with the
competitive exchange rate, the recent regulatory reforms have supported a very
encouraging expansion of non-oil exports. Non-oil export earnings are now
expected to reach US$12 billion in 1988189, almost 80? higher than two years
ago. Because of this strong performance, we expect to achieve our target of
reducing the current account deficit from over US$4 billion in 1986187 to less
than US$2 billion in 1988189. The deregulation drive has also provided a
needed boost to economic activitys non-oil GDP growth is estimated to have
risen to above 52 in 1988 and private investment (domestic and foreign) has
recovered strongly from the low levels of the mid-1980s.
5.       During the adjustment period, Indonesia has been greatly assisted by
special assistance from the donor community, in the form of fast-disbursing
program aid and local-cost financing. We are grateful for the direct support
provided by the World Bank through the two Trade Policy Adjustment Loans and
the catalytic role played by the Bank in mobilizing support from other donors.
During 1988189, total disbursements of special assistance reached an estimated
US$2.2 billion. These additional resources have enabled the Government to
push ahead with its deregulation measures and, by cushioning the economy
against the deflationary impact of the drop in oil prices, have facilitated



- 41 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 10
the recovery in private investment and growth. Special assistance has also
enabled Indonesia to improve the term structure of its external debt, while
maintaining financial market and investor confidence about the viability of
our adjustment program. Because of the Government's prudent external
borrowing strategy, and the improved export performance, the debt service
ratio stabilized around 362 in 1988 and is expected to decline steadily in
future years.
6.       With the restoration of external and domestic balance, the policy
focus will increasingly shift towards sustaining a higher growth path. This
is essential to absorb the expanding labor force at adequate levels of
productivity and incomes. In the draft five-year plan (REPELITA V) for
1989190 to 1993/94, GDP growth is projected to average 52 p.a. Given the
resource constraints facing the public sector, and the need to diversify the
sources of growth, achievement of this objective will require a substantial
contribution from the private sector. To promote efficient private sector
activities, the plan gives priority to developing a healthy and dynamic
investment climate throuSh appropriate incentives, simplified regulations and
procedures, and the provision of supporting infrastructure. The broad
directions of the Government's policies to support economic adjustment and
private sector development are set out below.
Macroeconomic Hanagement
7.       The Government remains committed to appropriate macroeconomic
policies to reduce the current account deficit, control inflation and preserve
a competitive exchange rate. The budget announced for 1989190 is consistent
with the dual aims of reducing macro imbalances in the economy, while also
supporting a recovery in investment and productive activities. Although
provision is made for increases in civil salaries and real capital spending,
the overall fiscal stance remains cautious. This is because of the major
effort underway to increase public resource mobilization through improved tax
administration, selective expansion of the tax base (for VAT and luxury
taxes), and better cost recovery on public services (e.g., by eliminating
pesticide subsidies). Expenditure priorities will be focussed on O&M,
physical infrastructure and human resource development.



- 42 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 10
8.       The Government will continue to maintain a prudent external borrowing
strategy during 1989190. Strict limits will be placed on import-related
credits and borrowing by public enterprises, with all proposals for large
capital-intensive projects subject to careful scrutiny.  Requirements for new
commitments of special assistance are expected to be reduced from
US$2.4 billion in 1988/89 to US$1.8 billion in 1989190.  This trend is in line
with the Government's commitment to phase out special assistance over the next
few years.  Steps will also be taken to improve the Government's capacity in
the area of debt management. In particular, a unified debt reporting and
analysis system will be established to provide up-to-date and comprehensive
information on the status of Indonesia's external debt. In addition,
technical assistance will be sought to develop a more active strategy for
asset and liability management.
9.       The Government maintains its strong commitment to the current foreign
exchange system. Exchange rate policy will continue to emphasize the
objective of maintaining international competitiveness of Indonesian exports,
taking account of price and exchange r- e movements in trading partners and
competitor countries. Through approptiate fiscal, monetary and exchange rate
policies, the Government aims to hold inflation within the single-digit range
and avoid any real effective appreciation of the Rupiah during the coming
year.
Trade Policy Reform
10.      The Government remains strongly committed to the objectives of trade
policy as set out in our previous two letters, namely:
- establishing a protection structure based on tariffs rather than
import licenses, thereby providing a more uniform and transparent
level of protection to Indonesian producers;
- reducing the past bias in incentives against export activities and in
favor of import substitution; and



- 43 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 10
- limiting the level of protection, with special provision for infant
industries which would enjoy higher levels of protection for
specified time periods.
11.      The trade reform measures supported by TPAL I and II represented the
first steps in a process of moving away from restrictive importer
arrangements. This momentum has been maintained over the past year. In
November 1988, a further 295 items--including plastics, fertilizers and
various agricultural products--were removed from import licensing
restrictions. The impact on the share of total domestic production protected
by import licensing is much larger than previous packages, declining from 382
at end-1987 to 29Z by end-1988. We expect to make further tangible pLogress
in this direction within the coming year, especially in those areas where
import licensing restrictions still provide high protection to domestic
production. Over the longer term, the Government intends to eliminate all
non-tariff barriers on imports except for a small group of products that are
harmful to health, strategic to national defense or involve special economic
and social considerations. The Government confirms that the reregistration of
importers was completed in February 1989, with 99Z of all applications
approved. Import licenses will now be valid indefinitely.
12.      The Government has also continued to review and revise import tariff
rates. In November 1988, tariffs and/or surcharges were adjusted on
191 items, including 25 items for which specific duties have been replaced by
ad valorem duties. Apart from 11 footwear items, all tariff and surcharge
changes remain within the lower ceiling (602) established in March 1985. In
addition, Indonesia moved to the new Harmonized System of coding and
classifying tariff items from January 1989. The cumulative effect of tariff
changes since 1985 has been to reduce the range of dispersion, with little
effect on the average tariff rate. However, there are still marked
differences between and within sectors in the level and dispersion of tariffs
(especially where surcharges and split tariffs are prevalent). The Government
therefore intends to prepare over the coming year a medium-term plan for
tariff reform, including proposals to reduce the role of split tariffs and



- 44 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 10
surcharges, and to implement a phased reduction in the level and range of
tariff rates. The Government confirms that import surcharges will be imposed
on a temporary basis only, and their justification will be regularly reviewed.
13.      To help prepare proposals for further reform, the Government has set
up a high-level team on tariffs, with responsibility for related issues of
trade and industrial policy. This team is chaired by the Junior Minister of
Finance, and includes representatives from EKUIN and the Ministries of
Finance, Industry and Trade. The Government would welcome technical
assistance to build up the analytical capacity of this team. In addition, the
Government has asked the IMF and the World Bank to undertake a joint study of
export policies, including the role of export bans, quotas and approved
traders.
The Regulatory Framework
14.      Recogaizing the impediments to private sector growth and development
stemming from the past regulatory framework, the Government initiated a series
of reforms over the past three years to simplify and relax regulations as a
complement to trade policy reform. In this, the Government focussed on the
two most important areas of concern: investment and capacity licensing, and
foreign investment regulations.
15.      The Government has taken further steps in these two areas in the
current round of reforms. First, as part of the November 1988 package, the
Government has relaxed the domestic marketing restriction on foreign firms by
allowing them to establish joint ventures to sell their products in domestic
markets. Second, the Government has taken a major step to simplify and relax
the investment licensing system by adopting a negative investment (DSP) list
in May 1989. By replacing a long but partial investment list that included
many restrictions with a short and clearly specified negative list, the
recently announced reform will reduce the restrictiveness of the investment
licensing system, make the system transparent to all investors and ensure that
the investment approval process becomes even more automatic.



- 45 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 10
16.      The Government recognizes that despite the measures taken to date,
and the encouraging trends in domestic and foreign private investment, the
regulatory framework still remains complex and cumbersome for new and existing
enterprises. The Government will continue, therefore, to identify ways to
relax and simplify the regulatory framework. As a follow-up to the adoption
of the negative investment list, the Government intends to open additional
areas to domestic and foreign private investment so that eventually only a few
activities would be regulated on national security or special economic and
social grounds. At the same time, the Government will review the scope for
further elimination of investment-related licenses and reduction in
requirements for license approval. The Government also intends to make local
content programs more flexible. With regard to foreign investment, the
Government intends to review remaining ownership and operating restrictions
faced by foreign firms, and make any further adjustments that are needed to
maintain an attractive investment climate.
17.      While the Government has focussed so far on core regulations in the
areas of trade and investment, greater attention will now have to be given to
other elements of the regulatory framework including land and labor laws and
practices, other local-level regulations, and the legal framework. Reforms in
these areas will be complex and time-consuming as they will require
substantive revisions of laws, modification of procedures and reorientation of
institutions. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes the importance of early
actions and has already taken some important steps, for instance by creating a
new land agency directly under the President.   To formulate an action program
for reform, the Government will over the next year undertake a review of land
and labor regulations, and initiate a review of local-level regulations and
the corporate legal framework.
Maritime Transport
18.      The Government initiated maritime transport reforms in 1985, when
customs services and port operations were restructured, and restrictions on
foreign-flag vessels were removed. Substantial further progress on
deregulating the shipping industry has been made over the past year. In
February 1988, the compulsory scrapping policy for ships was suspended. This



- 46 -                      ANNEX IV
Page a of 10
was followed in November by a major deregulation package which reduced and
simplified business license procedures, allowed shipping lines to determine
their own route structure and schedules, and allowed national lines to charter
foreign flag vessels and form new joint venture companies with foreign lines.
In response to this major shift in the policy environment, over 40 new
shipping companies have already been licensed. This resurgence of competition
is expected to have a strong positive effect on the quality of shipping
services and transport costs. The Government will continue to monitor the
implementation and impact of these reforms closely, to ensure that the
potential benefits are fully realized.
Financial Sector Development
19.      The financial sector reforms in 1983, which eliminated most interest
rate controls and credit ceilings, have had a very positive impact on resource
mobilization. However, differential regulations among institutions continued
to dampen competition and impede the development of new financial instruments.
Therefore, over the past year, the Government has introduced a further round
of reforms in the financial sector. Competition in the banking system is to
be stimulated by facilitating entry of new banks (including joint ventures
with foreign banks), easing restrictions on establishing new branches, and
permitting public enterprises to place up to 502 of their deposits with
private banks. The tax exemption for time deposits has been withdrawn, to
redress the discrimination against other financial assets. Other measures to
encourage long-term capital mobilization include the establishment of an over-
the-counter (OTC) market, and easing of entry restrictions into insurance,
leasing, consumer finance and securities activities. To strengthen prudential
regulations, the Government has defined loan concentration ratios and minimum
capital requirements for banks and NBFIs, and solvency ratios for insurance
companies.
20.      These measures represent a dramatic departure from the old system
where the state banks dominated the banking sector and other segments of the
financial market were poorly developed. Lmplementation of these changes will
obviously take time, but there are already signs that the structure of the
financial sector will be significantly altered. In the banking sector, new



ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 10
licenses have been issued for 7 national commercial banks, 3 joint ventures
with foreign banks and 47 secondary banks. Several foreign banks are actively
considering opening branches. As regards capital markets, there has been a
significant increase in activity on the Jakarta stock exchange since October
and the first issue on the new OTC market was successfully completed in early
1989.
21.      Not surprisingly, monetary conditions were initially unsettled after
the deregulation measures were announced. However, the situation has now
returned to normal, with inter-bank rates around 12-15Z. To improve monetary
management, the Governme-nt now allows the reswap premium on foreign exchange
transactions (to provide cover against exchange risk) to be determined by
interest rate differentials. The maturities of money market instruments (SBIs
and SBPUs) have also been extended, and institutional arrangements have been
improved to develop the secondary market. Finally, reserve requirements have
been reduced and unified at 2S for all banks and liabilities. In order to
contain the potential expansionary effects of this change, banks were
initially required to hold 80 of the reserve money thus released in SBIs.
22.      Over the coming year, the Government will continue to monitor the
impact of these reforms very closely. The immediate priority for follow-up is
to strengthen Bank Indonesia's capacity for bank supervision. Technical
assistance for this purpose is being provided by the IMP and ADB. Draft
legislation will also be presented to Parliament in the near future to codify
and streamline the regulatory framework for the central bank, commercial
banks, insurance companies and pension funds. Audits of the state banks are
to be undertaken, to identify needs for restructuring and recapitalization.
Finally, the Government is committed to reducing the role of subsidized
credits from Bank Indonesia, by reducing the size and scope of eligible
programs, and bringing interest rates closer to market levels.
Public Enterprises
23.      Following the weakening of oil prices in the early 1980s, the
Government took steps to contain investment by public enterprises. Several
large capital-intensive projects were rephased in 1983. Subsequently, tight



ANNEX IV
- 48 -                    Page 10 of 10
control has been kept on utilization of non-concessional import-related
credits and equity participation in public enterprises funded through the
budget has been reduced to minimal levels. Over the past year, the Government
has completed a review of the financial performance of most public
entreprises. Based on this review, the Government intends to divest or
reorganize several public enterprises in the near future. Some of these
enterprises vill enter joint ventures with the private sector and others will
issue shares to the public. Over the coming year, the Government intends to
review the policy framework for those enterprises remaining in the public
sector, to ensure that it encourager 3fficient operations. Particular
attention will be paid to issues of autonomy and accountability in the
relationship between the enterprises and the Government. Based on this
review, a plan of action will be prepared, to guide the future direction of
public enterprise reform.
Sincerely yours.
Saleh Afiff
Minister of State for National
Development Planning/Chairman
of Bappenas



DOiESIA - PRIVATE SECTOR DEVeLPMi LOAN: POI ICY  >RAiEfl
Actions tUen 19848                   Action. token 19687                   Actions tahon 190649                    Arose for follow-up
A. Mromcnl. Policie
196. Rupiah devalued by 2M  A the   1966. RuPioh devaIus by 811 &           Rupiah d percitnd ateedily             Presrve a ompetitive exch.ne
exchange re  subeeqouently  et by     ub-oquently *llowed to depreciate      e inot the US Collor. b October       rate, through eoordinnted fiscnl,
a managed floet against  basket    with the US Dolar.                       I   i the REt was 71 lower then        monetary A exchange rote policios.
of currencet.                                                               aftar the 196  devauation
Avoid any real effective
ap;ociation of the Rupish in
FimI Pal Iea c     Extrma l Debt
19S. MIny large capital-Intenalvo   Au.tare budgete implemented for         Jan 1O8. AMther *uotare budget         Monitor *xpenditure in 1959/90, to
projects rephaed. major               1966/6  A 1967/88. No increae In      anounced for 19W8/89. No increase    saintain a priaart budgot surplus
invoeteete affected Included         civil service *clariea A capital       In civil *ervice salrles A real        reduce net doeabac expenditure.
bintan Alumina, Plnju arosatic.      seending eut by 27m. Priority          capital saendin, growth hold to        Primaerly use any windfall froe
ihue  refinery, Aceh oleftino         gsven to                R. Sas priorities tc for                             higher oil prices to reduce external
soveral power projocts. Total          - Completion of ongoing projects.   prvitou  2 years.                       brrowirn .
foroe    exchanga savings *atimted    - Counterpart fund" for foreign-
et 111410 billIon,                      aided projects.                     Jun 1968. ICI pledl       USti2.4      Impement pndin, prioritlaa for
- Pro jat aerving ea.loysmt A        billion in special asesitance for    REP*9,TA V  Winfrestructure A
equity ob;ectivea.                 198/9                                  hunmn r     rce development.
Maintain prudent external borrowing
atratey in 1969/90
- Reduce doepndnnce on epecial
mal atanum.
-Kee  strict limits on impart-
related credits & borroing by
publIc entarpriese.
- Corefully scrutinize pr"o  loI
for large capitatl-inteneive
projecta.
Strengthen Institutional
rranento for debt magesnt:
- Prowide a atrexolined & unIfied
debt reporting A analysis system.
- Davelop a more active atratgy
for asset * Itnbiity I snagesnt.
Public Resource Mobilixation
1964. tneom  tax reform included:    1966. Ma property tax replaced 7       Through improveent  In tax             Fully implement ravnue masuree
- Simplified tax structure, based  ordinances  including the old land    adoaietn ation Ce.g., income tax         announced for 1989/90.
on   relatively low ratee (S11,   a net weath txxes. The now law         audits)  non-oil texoe  increexcd
28       8 J S}) A Isited deduction.  is simplor. bed on a proportion    from 9.4 of non-aI CDP In              Further improve tax adminiatration
-  gf- es        ta  of tax         of the market value  of land A         1967/88 to 10.i In 19081/9.            by:
Ilability, with ephbass on        buildings, a a Single tax rate of                                              - Introducing full *udit of VAT
withholdifn  at  ourc.            0.i.                                   Power tariff. raised on avoage by         return.
- Simplification of the tax code,                                          268 from April 1, 1969.                 - Increasing property vxlues for
including revised procedures                                                                                       tax collection,
for appeals & refun.                                                     Anouned extenion of tax bae
for 1=989/9      t.b th               These measures are expected to raise
1968. 0U  VAT replaced  xoles taxes.                                         - Ex      'a,T to th       olle       Th          t     -    I *x o r to
Ltitd to  owuf cturtne level. but                                              level A to mot ervIcea,             non-oll CDP by 1 percentage point
increseed revenue potential by:                                              - Raixing the number of its A         during 1969/90.
- Subjcting dometic *ales of                                                  ratoe  for luxury taxes.
serol ear & tobacco products to                                                                                Improve cost recovery by:
NAT.in                                                                   Announced decision to eliminate         - Fe. retention A hIgsher fee levels
- Impoeleg an additional tax (10-                                          pesticide subsidies in 1989/90.           for crtin heath  * duetion
20)on luxury good".                                                                                              servicess.                                           (
- Adjusting petrolem product                             P4
prices to generate a budget
surplus A reduce cross-
subsidization of kerosnme                           0
diesel.                                             6
- Reducing fertilizer subeidise
through price incrass * aswl Woo
as improved efficiency in
production A distribution.



DCC13IA - PRIVATE SETaR DEVELPENT LO, POLICY FRAMWI
Action, taken 1988-0                 Actions tken 1986-87                  ActionS taken 1988-0                    Aroma for fol Iow-up
b. Incentiyesa & RAulatory Frsno,rk
Trade Pal icY Reform
1985. Tariff ceiling reduced from    186. Export certificate.               NoY 1908. A furthor 295 items          EnSur proper implomnttion of
22tS to S0  (Ibarring a fea          abolished, following Indoneoic'-       remoyad froe licenee control. Ste_   reent refor. including
exceptiono) & nubier of tariff       uacestion to 0ATT Code on              include agricultural producto (e.g.   reregistration process.
categories reduced from 25 to 11.   Subsidios A Countorvallin# Duttas.    palo/coconut oil  tobacco,rubber).
Ibeever, Wile continue to                                                   proc_ee  fruit I mat cigarette.,  Reduce the coyerage of NT80 from 291
proliferate. by  nd-t9do, moe         1986. 'Producer exporters' allowd    fertilizers. plastice   more steel    to 20-24J of domeatic production oev
than  700 Items were subject to    to import inputs, exept fro              & textile product. Coyerae   of        tho next year. Focus on areas wher.
Wile of one fora or another,         duties & licence restrictions.         NT8 reduced frm:                       NTSa proyide high protection to
Other exportre a IIowed to import      - 28S to 211 for Import yalue.        doeetic production. Eventually,
inputs (aith duti es refunded), if     - 301 to 29l for total production,   eliminate all NiM. except for a
domotic suppliers not able to          - 351 to 281 for wmnu. produetion,   euaIl grouP of product for heaitho
eupply them at coepetitlyo priceo.                                           defenc or moctal conaideratonte.
N.Y 19w88 Tariffs A/or murchargee
1986-87.   trade reform pacekges      changed on 191 iteom                   fneure that *11 tariff chanewo
removed S44 itemo from licence         - Loered (28 items) cher  local       conform to the lower tr"ff bands.
control. Items included cheoiclal,       price. below existing teriffs or  Prpare a systemtic indium-term
Iron A steel, ent,neosrng Goods          there is no domstic capacity,       plan for tariff reform, including
points A dyes, tires a tuboo, 91isae    - Raised (89 Ie) to partially    proposals to reduce tho role of
A tactile.. Coverage of Nio              coepensate for tWo remoyol of       split tariffs & surcharge, a to
reduced fromf                            NTsI.                               impleamnt a phased reduction in the
- 48  to 251 for ixport ylui.         - Specific duteso replaced by ad      leYvl A range of tariff rates.
* 41S to 881 for total production.      valorem dutie (25 item)
- 821 to 851 for menu, production.   - Tariff. split into toriff  a         Roview justifieation for curreont
surchargeo (82 item),              export restrictions, particularly
1968-7. Nominal tariffs adjueted                                             us of export bano, quotas A
to lower the cost of imvorted         Nov 1908. Al I Importers to be         approved trader arrangement.
Inputs A moderate the impact of       rergieterod, Licanes  subsequently
Nil reovsI ,                          vaild indefinitely.                    Strengthen 00C  capacity for analysis
on trade A in-dustrial policy leaumo.
1987. Export Incentives improyed      Jan 1989. Nw tariff echdule            Arrango technical asetance for th
by:                                   baead on Hromonixed System             tariff te. o
- Abolishing e  port Itcsnees.       introdue d.                                                                                          L
- Removing export ban  on 10 itemsO
a eaport quts on 24 item..
- Improving tho "ay 6 Schoem.
Inveotmnt and Camacite Licensint
198. Procedures or approv I          1986. Fields of investment open to    Moa 1988. Foreign firms allowed to    Open up more sectors to doestic 
;mplementation of private            foreitn a domestic cepanies core    oatbl i;h Joint ventures for              for#ein inestment so thut
inve;t_ent simplifled. Major         *xpanded substantially A  pocified    doe_tic mrketicno of own products   evntually only a 4W sectors
reonization of b(P  almo             more clearly. Foreign Investmnt        at the *holoele level Operatin         could be reuiated due to national
eowlis td  r         flecting chonf.I  co panies were given greateor :ec_    lienae  valid Indefinitely A           ecurity or eacil considerationa.
fexcu- frm  inYot_nt rfew  ction     to domestc ftnncn a domestic           throuehout Indonmtni
to promotion.                        cenaraip rule. were eased.                                                    Roduce remining constraint.t on
eo  AroeeeXon  er hip rulm ecro *no d   hy 1909. DSP list tranoformed        foreign invoetent including
7. Ingetant   c apacity               to a short negative lit, making        restrictiona on ooers h;p, export-
lIcensing system relaxed:             the licnoing proces more               orIented fi*r   (;ncluding in
- Automtic approval to firm  to      automtic a opening naw  eactors to    agriculture) A doo_tic marketing
increas  production by up to a01   dometic    foro;en Investors,          by foreign firm.
of licensed caacity.
-  Broed banding' of investmnt                                              Make local content program  more
cateories, allowing firom to                                              fleWible, by gradually eliminating
diversify production.                                                     imort bano A import Ilcsnslng
- Additional fioldos  f investmnt                                           restrlction  on final compoents A
opened to dome_tic a foreign                                              component., A by continuing to relax
Invstm                                                                    deletion echodules.
- Rquirem_nt for investent
liense  further streolined.
197. Fbregn i mnvetmnt
reulationes relaxed:                                                                                                                 oo
- Foreln -caned companis allowed 
to amrket Indonesian export.
- Foretgn firm  altloed to                                                                                                           s
purchase domestic Inputs without
restrictIon.
- Rules rerding hiring of
expatriate personel relaxed.



IXNPYA - PRIVATE SECOR DEV11111"HEW LAAN, POLICY FRAMI9K
Actiona taken 1983-8                  Action, taken 198647                 Actions taken 196869                    Areas for fol low-up
Other Rulationa
Rev;ew local-level reaulation., a
land a lobor love & practices, to
ensure they provide an appropriate
frameork for private sector
development.
Revitalize reform of the corporate
lepal system, including a review of
*xieti;n laov & interim 'procees
cheng,e.
C. Public nterDriee Refor.
1986. Prealdent rewueat  review of                                           Implemont proposed program to divest
the financial performance of public                                          A reorganixe selected public
enterprise, to tdentify candidatee                                           enterpriee, Including through
for diveetMent or reorganiation                                              joint venturee with the private
eector A ehare iseuee to the publ iC.
Initiate a review of th, policy
framework for public enterprises,
including ieeu*s of sector
o&Jsctivee organization, autonomy.
account biit  a perforance
evaluation Prepere plan of action
for public enterprise reform.
0. Infrastructure and Suveort Service.
1965. Import and expott procedures                                          Februtry. Compuleory scrapping         Ensure proper implementation of
redue*d to a otn Im:  porte ere                                             policy for sip. ouepended.             el hipplng deregu ition e surem.
now inodected at the ports  f                                                                                                                                                    V
on ein by0C1-appointed suveyor.                                             November. Major derelulation of
(SOS) *hteIs exporte A inter-                                               the chIpping induetry to:
tloEnd traffic are no loner                                                  - Reduce A simplify businees
eubject to cuoto_e inspection.                                                  Itcensing procedure.
Port charge siaplifled A                                                     -Allow chopping line. to
reduced, A reetrictona on                                                      determine their own route
foreign-flag veeele removd                                                     structure. a  chedulee.
- Allow national line. to charter
forelgn flag weeele A form new
joint venture copeanite with
foreign line.
090
0
.            _~~~~~~~~~~~



ISMXIA - PRIVATE SETOR DEV Et'MB41 LOMN: POLICY FRAMAR(
Actions taken 1988-8                 Actiono taken 1986-7                  Actieon  taken 198889                   Areas for follow-up
E. Financial Sector Oev.eloeent
1988. Financial reform  to:           1987. Equity mrkets strengthened:    Oct 19S8. "asurem to enhance            Strenethen prudential raulation,
- Rovoe met intreet rate             - Inetitutlonal framework for         competition. increase  the eupaly of   * pecap ily for bank mupervision:
controle on state bank deposit.      capital markets improved,           long-tars funds A prote stabt I ity    - Apply coneistont regulaetions
- Eliminate credit ceilings for      - Listing requirements on the         in the financial eyete:                   for state & private bank.
all bank.                            Jakarta stock exchange               - Isoue nw licence. for banks.         - Develop  n early   rni  system
- Reduce the number of liquidity       simplified.                             including joint ventures with         for montorin, benk pe-forsnC.e
credit program.                    - OTC market proposed for newer          foreign banks.                       - Improve the eyetos of bank
I em well -established compntIes.    - Eaee restrictions on opening          evaluation A ratings.
- Foreign Investors allowed in          new branches of banks A lFIo.
OTC market.                         - Allow new rural banke to be         Introduc  new logislation to codify
established In districts e           stroealino rogu latery fra_ work
(outside capitals).                for central bant  comercial banko,
- Ease the requirements to become    inurnce cocPanies A pension funds.
-   foreign exchange bank.
- Allow public enterprises to        Conduct audits of the state banks. &
place o01O of their dposits        prepare a program for restructuring
with private banks A NBFIs.           p recplttlixtion. Improve the
- Allow NBFI  to ieeue We.            legal   *ccounting framework for
- Levy a 1*5 withholding tax on      the financial eector.
time deposits A Ce to remove
diecrimin"tion against other       Reduce the role of subsidized
financial aesota.                   liquidity credits by:
- Allo  banks & NOFrs to raieT         - Rtducing tho *hare of bank credit
capital from securities mrket,         channeled through this mechanism.
- Oefine lon concentration ratios    - Liomting the number of Oltibl.
A minimum capital requirements         pr"ogrms.
for banks A lNI&.                    - Bringing interest rates cloeer
- Establish a uniform A lower            to market levels.
reserve roqutresent (21) for
- Extend the mturities on
monetary instru-ments A develop
the secondary market.
-Relate the reewap premium to                                                                     u
interest  eate differentials.
Dec 1988. Additional measure to
strengthen the capital market:
- The private sector can now
operate stock exchange
- Simplify entry Into ineurance.
leating, consumr finance.
capita? A securities activities.
- Specify solvency ratios for
insurance companies.
Nar 1989. Ceiling on offshore
borrowing by banks A NIFIe reved,
A replaced with geenral eoundnese
criteria.
40
Mit



- 53 -                ~~~~ANNEX VI
Pase 1 of 7
IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT OF REFORMS SUPPORTED
BY EARLIER ADJUSTMENT LOANS
Introduction
1.       The external environment faced by Indonesia has worsened considerably
since the early 1980s, with sharply lower oil prices, and more recently, the
depreciation of the US Dollar. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has
responded effectively to this challenge, taking decisive actions to restrain
domestic demand, mobilize additional resources and set in train the structural
changes needed to develop the non-oil economy. The World Bank has supported
GOI's recent reform efforts through two adjustment loans: Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan I (TPAL I) approved on February 3, 1987 and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan II (TPAL II) approved on May 10, 1988. Both loans were for
US$300 million.
2.       The objectives of these two adjustment loans were to:  (a) support
the substantial reforms, especially in the area of trade policy, undertaken by
GOI since 1986, and ensure that they are implemented well; (b) assist GOI to
bring about an early recovery in economic activity consistent with external
and domestic financial stability; and (c) maintain the policy dialogue on
further reforms for promoting the efficiency and longer-term viability of the
economy. These objectives were to be achieved partly through our ongoing
dialogue on policy issues and partly through balance of payments support. In
addition to providing direct financing for general imports, the loans played a
catalytic role in mobilizing US$3.7 billion of fast-disbursing special
assistance over the past three years. These additional resources have enabled
GOI to push ahead with its deregulation measures, and by cushioning the
economy against the deflationary impact of the drop in oil prices, have
facilitated the recovery in private investment and growth. The findings of a
recent assessment of measures supported under TPAL II are summarized below.
Implementation of the Reform Program
3.       A key prerequisite for the success of GOI's reform program has been
sound macroeconomic policies. Over the past three years, civil service
salaries have been frozen and real capital spending by the Central Government
has been cut by more than 202. At the same time, a strong effort has been
made to increase budget revenues, primarily through improvements in tax
administration. As a result, the ratio of non-oil taxes to GDP has risen from
8.42 in 1985/86 to 10.82 in 1988/89 (see Table 1). The combination of
expenditure restraint and tax effort has helped to improve the fiscal position
of the Central Government, with a decline in net domestic expenditure as a
ratio to GDP and generation of a primary surplus. Monetary policy was also
tightened, as reflected in the declining growth rate of reserve money. The
prudent fiscal and monetary stance has helped to contain domestic inflation to
about 92 per annum over the past two years. At the same time, the nominal
value of the Rupiah has been gradually depreciated against a basket of
currencies. As a result, the real effective exchange has continued to
decline, preserving the competitive advantage provided by the devaluation in
September 1986.



- 54 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
Table l IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY REFORMS
1985      1986      1987      1988
1. Fiscal policy /a
Non-oil taxes (2 of non-oil GDP)        8.4        9.8       9.4     10.8
Net domestic expenditure (2 of GDP)/b  8.5         3.8       4.1      2.2
Primary balance (2 of GDP)             -0.9       -1.1       0.8      0.4
2. Monetary policy
Reserve money growth (t p.a.)          17.6       21.3      11.0     -5.7
3.  Real effective exchange rate           -2.9      -23.0     -26.6      -2.9
(2 change) Ic
4. Coverage of NTBs (2)
CCCN items                             31.5      27.9       21.7     16.3
Import value                           42.9      34.9       25.5     20.8
Domestic production                    41.4       39.5      37.6     28.9
Manufacturing production               52.0       43.8      35.3     26.0
5. Investment approvals /d
Domestic (Rp. trillion)                 3.7        4.4      10.3     14.9
Foreign (US$ billion)                   0.9       0.8        1.5      4.4
/a All data relate to the Central Government only.
lb  The domestic content of expenditure less non-oil revenues.
jc Based on annual average data.
id By BKPM.
4.       In the area of trade policy reform, the loan was based on measures
taken .aring 1987 to reduce the coverage of non-tariff barriers (NTBs).
Through two packages, in January and December 1987, GOI removed 342 items
from import licensing restrictions. As shown in Table 1. these reforms
accounted for 202 of all items and 222 of import value previously restricted.
More importantly, they reduced the coverage of NTBs from 442 to 352 of
manufacturing production. Most of the reforms were in highly-protected
manufacturing subsectors--s-ch as textiles, garments and footwear, basic
metals and engineering goods--where import licensing restrictions had the most
deleterious effect on international competitiveness and allocative efficiency.l/
Follow-up discussions with GOI and interviews with firms suggest that these
11 Because of the dominant role of agriculture, and the limited reforms in
this sector, the coverage of NTBs for the economy as a whole fell only
slightly, from 402 to 382 during 1987. Follow-up measures to extend
the reforms into the agriculture sector were taken in 1988 (see para.
14). These have significantly reduced the share of domestic production
under NTBs.



- 55 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 7
measures have been implemented smoothly. The issuance of import licenses is
fairly quick and non-discriminatory, and information regarding the reforms is
being disseminated to the firm level.21
5.       Additional measures were taken during 1987 to eliminate some of the
direct impediments to exports: (a) the need to obtain a special export
license was abolished; (b) sevr q export bans and quotas were removed;3/ and
(c) access by exporters to inte _tionally-priced inputs (through the May 6
scheme) was broadened   As shown in Table 2, utilization of the May 6 scheme
has continued to expiAd rapidly, in terms of number of firms and import value
covered, while average processing times have been reduced.
Table 2: IMPLEMENTATION OF MAY 6 SCHEME
Value of imports          Processing time
No. of       (USS million)           (no. of days)
Firms   Approved   Realized   Exemptions   Drawbacks
1986 la                    242      236          65          12            24
1987                       482      902         297           7            17
1988                     1,098    2,447         626           6            13
la From July.
Source: BPKEIPDL.
6.       Under the two trade reform packages of 1987, tariffs for 121 items
were raised and tariffs for 178 items were lowered. Temporary surcharges were
also imposed on 51 import items. The tariff increases compensated for the
effects of the removal of import licensing restrictions, but remained within
the lower tariff ceiling set in 1985. The tariff reductions in the January
1987 package were concentrated on products not produced domestically, and were
intended to offset the cost-raising effects of the September 1986 devaluation.
The reductions in December 1987 went beyond this limited objective by reducing
21 More recently, in November 1988, all existing import license holders
(some 4,880) were required to reregister. By February 1. 3,667 had
reapplied and 3,645 (992) had been approved. Some 42 new importers
were also registered during January and February 1989. Import licenses
are now valid for as long as the importer remains in business, whereas
previously licenses had to be renewed every 3 to 5 years.
3/ During 1988, some new export bans (e.g., semi-processed rattan, lowest-
grade rubber) were imposed to increase domestic value added and/or
protect the environment. The justification for these bans needs to be
reviewed, taking into account market conditions for these products and
the impact of the bans on domestic employment and income distribution.



- 56 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 7
some tariffs on domestically-produced goods that were removed from license
restrictions under earlier decrees. As shown in Table 3, the cumulative
effect of tariff changes since 1985 has been to reduce the range of
dispersion, with little effect on the average tariff rate. However, in moving
off NTBs, split tariffs and surcharges were used to protect some domestic
producers.41 As a result, there are still marked differences between and
within sectors in the level and dispersion of tariffs. This reinforces the
importance of broadening the trade reform effort to include a comprehensive
rationalization of the tariff schedule. Progress in this area has been slower
than expected, due to delays in strengthening GOI's institutional capacity to
undertake trade and industrial policy analysis. Technical assistance for this
purpose will be required.
7.       A number of major steps were taken during 1987 to relax and simplify
the investment and capacity licensing system. Firms are now allowed to
increase production by up to 302 of their licensed capacity without requiring
new investment approval and to diversify production within much broader
product categories, thereby improving the operational flexibility of firms and
promoting greater competition. Furthermore, the requirements for investment
licenses were streamlined and additional fields of investment opened to
private domestic and foreign investors. The December package included a
Table 3: CHANGES IN THE TARIFF SCHEDULE /a
Pre-
1985       1985       1988       1989
Average tariff rates (2)
Unweighted                            37.3       27.0        24.0      24.4
Weighted by:
- Import value                       22.0       13.0        14.5      14.5
- Domestic production                26.0       17.1        16.6      17.0
Index of dispersion /b                61.5      107.8        90.0      84.4
/a  Tariffs are inclusive of surcharges and specific duties have been
converted to ad valorem equivalents.
/b Measured by the coefficient of dispersion.
Sourcet Ministry of Finance and World Bank staff estimates.
41 'Split tariff" positions are used to subdivide a standard seven or nine
digit CCCNIHS product description into finer product groups with
differential tariffs or NTBs applied. Surcharges are also used as a
de facto anti-dumping device.



57                           ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 7
series of measures to relax foreign investment regulations: domestic
ownership requirements were eased significantly; restrictions prohibiting
foreign-owned companies from marketing Indonesian export goods were removed;
foreign firms are now allowed to purchase domestic inputs without restriction;
and rules regarding the hiring of expatriate personnel were relaxed. These
steps have addressed key concerns expressed by foreign investors in Indonesia
and reduce differences in treatment between foreign and domestic firms.
Together with the broader regulatory measures, these changes in the investment
and capacity licensing system have significantly improved the environment for
private investment. This is reflected in Table 1, which shows that investment
approvals by BKPM have risen by 230Z for domestic investors and 430Z for
foreign investors over the past two years.
Impact of the Reform Program
8.       The two core objectives of GOI's adjustment program are:
(a) restoration of financial stability; and (b) sustained recovery of growth.
Progress has been good on both fronts. As regards financial stability, the
prompt stabilization measures taken in response to the external shocks of 1986
contained the current account deficit to around 61 of GNP in 1986/87 and
reduced it to below 3Z of GNP over the past two years (see Table 4).
Table 4: IMPACT OF POLICY REFORMS
(growth rates, 2 p.a.)
1985      1986       1987     1988
Economic activity
GDP                                        1.7       3.7        3.9      4.7
Non-oil GDP                                3.8       3.9        4.6      5.6
Fixed investment                          -6.0      -7.0        1.9      7.0
Public                                     2.4     -19.6       -1.7      6.3
Private                                 -13.8        6.8        4.9      7.6
External trade
Non-oil exports                           10.1       3.2       25.8     13.6
Non-oil imports                          -13.3     -13.6        5.0      6.6
Other indicators
Domestic inflation /a                      4.7       5.8        9.5      8.5
Current account/GNP (2)                   -2.4      -5.9       -2.3     -2.5
Debt service ratio (Z) /b                 24.4      37.3       33.9     36.3
la As measured by the urban consumer price index (adjusted).
lb Debt service excludes prepayments.
Source: World Bank staff estimates.



ANNEX VI
- 58 -                         Page 6 of 7
Inflation has also been held to about 9S per annum over the past two years,
preserving the competitive advantage provided by the 1986 devaluation.
Indonesia's debt burden remained high in 1988, with the debt service ratio
over 36Z. However, a number of debt indicators (e.g., debt exports, debtlGNP)
have already started to decline and all debt indicators are projected to
improve steadily over the next few years. This trend reflects the favorable
debt structure (reinforced by the availability of special assistance) and the
strong economic recovery (especially for non-oil exports). GOI remains
committed to servicing its debts on schedule.
9.       The measures taken have helped to provide the basis for a sustained
recovery of growth in three wayss
(a) In response to the real exchange rate adjustment, and accompanying
deregulation measures, non-oil exports have increased substantially
from US$6.7 billion in 1986187 to an estimated US$12.1 billion in
1988/89, a real increase of 20S per annum. Much of this growth has
come from a diversifying base of manufactured goods, with many small
and medium-sized private firms contributing substantially.
(b) There is also evidence of resurgence in private investment,
especially in export-oriented activities. The sharp increase in
investment approvals by BKPM is noted above. Implementation of these
approvals is reflected in Table 4, where the growth of private
investment is estimated to have accelerated to 8Z in 1988. Together
with the severe constraint on public investment, this has led to a
change in the structure of investment, with the private sector now
accounting for about 542 (up from 492 in 1985).
(c) The recent reform measures have also had a positive effect on
economic efficiency. As shown in Table 5, the return per unit of
investment had declined sharply in 1982-85, as the pace of economic
growth began to slow and NTBs were imposed to protect inefficient
domestic industries. This trend is also reflected in the high ICOR
and fall in total factor productivity (TFP). However, after 1985,
there has been a noticeable improvement in all three of these
efficiency indicators.
Table 5: MACROECONOMIC EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
1974-81     1981-85      1986-88
Rate of return on investment (S p.a.)        31.4         13.1        21.8
ICOR                                          2.8          7.8         5.2
Total factor productivity change (2 p.a.)    0.9          -2.5         1.0
Sourcet World Bank staff estimates.



59                           ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 7
These positive developments have supported a steady increase in the growth
rate of non-oil GDP from 3.82 in 1985 to an estimated 5.6Z in 1988. With the
resurgence of private investment and momentum of the export drive, there is
every expectation that this recovery will be sustained.
10.      The recovery in economic growth has helped to contain the social
costs of adjustment. GOI has also acted directly to reallocate public
spending to poverty-related programs. For example, the shares of development
expenditure allocated for social services and agriculture have been
significantly increased over the past five years. An effort has also been
made to protect regional transfers, which normally finance small-scale and
labor-intensive infrastructure projects at the local level. Even so, because
of the overall budget constraint, the availability and quality of many basic
services has weakened. More fundamentally, because of the severe terms of
trade loss, per capita incomes are still lower than in 1981. The main burden
of adjustment has fallen on earnings, with real labor earnings in agriculture
and services probably stagnating or declining during the recent adjustment
period. However, part of the adjustment in the labor market has occurred as
an increase in the _ate of open unemployment in urban areas, especially among
young school leavers. These trends reinforce the importance of sustaining a
higher growth path over the medium term, to absorb the rapidly expanding labor
force at higher levels of productivity and income. By restoring stability and
promoting restructuring in the economy, GOI's reform program is laying a solid
foundation for achievement of this objective.



- 60 -                      ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 6
DETAILS OF RECENT POLICY MEASURES
Trade Policy Reforms
1.       Another in a series of trade policy packages was announced on
November 21, 1988. As in the past, this package focussed on the removal of
non-tariff barriers (NTBs), by moving items from restrictive import license
categories to the general importer license category (IU or IU+).1/ A total of
295 items have been deregulateds2/
o 78 chemical items, including most fertilizers (urea, ammonium
sulphate, TSP) and all plastics.
O 11 iron and steel items (although most flat products remain
protected).
o 110 textile items (many of which had become less restricted in
earlier packages, but are now deregulated).
*  50 food and beverage items, including palm/coconut oil, some
processed meats and all cigarettes.
o 46 agriculture items, including tobacco, rubber and some fruits.
2.       World Bank analysis suggests that these measures will reduce the
coverage of NTBs as follows:
o  From 21.7Z to 16.32 for CCCN items.
O  From 25.21 to 20.82 for import value.
o  From 35.32 to 26.02 for manufacturing production.
O  From 37.62 to 28.92 for total production.
3.       The package also requires all general importers to reregister, to
ensure that they: (a) hold an importer identification number (API); (b) hold
a taxpayer identification number (NPWP); and (c) have not violated any
existing regulations. This reregistration process was to be completed by the
Regional Offices of the Ministry of Trade by December 31, 1988 (subsequently
extended to January 31, 1989). Of the 4,880 import licenses existing before
reregistration, 3,667 reapplied and 3,645 (992) were approved. Access by new
importers to import licenses remained open during, and after, the
reregistration process. New entrants required the same documentation as those
reregistering, and some 42 new importers were reregistered during January and
February 1989. All import licenses will now be valid as long as the importer
remains in business (rather than be renewed every 3 to 5 years as before).
11 IU licenses were converted to IU+ licenses following the reregistration
process (see para. 7).
2I  This total excludes 6 items moved from IU to IU+.  For another 17
items, the license iestrictions have been eased. These include 15
steel items previously imported by Krakatau Steel only but now open to
all actual users (IP).



- 61 -                      ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 6
4.       The package includes tariff (andlor surcharge) changes on 191 items:
o Tariffs were lowered on 25 items, where local prices were below
existing tariffs or there is no domestic capacity.
O Tariffs were raised on 59 items, to compensate for the removal of
NTBs.
o Specific duties were replaced by ad valorem duties on 25 items.
O Tariffs were split into tariffs and surcharges on 82 items.
Apart from 11 footwear items, all of these changes leave the sum of tariffs
and surcharges within the existing tariff ceiling of 60Z.
Investment Measures
5.       As part of the measures announced in November 1988, the Government
further relaxed the marketing restrictions on foreign (PMA) firms. Foreign
firms will now be allowed to establish joint ventures to distribute their
products at the wholesale level. Previously foreign firms could only market
their products in domestic markets through fully Indonesian owned firms. In
addition, the operating license (SIUP) is now valid throughout Indonesia and
for as long as the company remains in business.
6.       In May 1989, the Government announced the adoption of a negative list
for investment licensing by the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM). This
negative list replaces a long and incomplete list that had been used earlier
for the investment approval process. Bank analysis indicates that out of a
total of 6,727 investment categories in the industrial sector (according to
the Indonesian industrial classification system), 167 investment categories
would be restricted by the negative list. Also, the new negative list does
not distinguish between domestic investment that can be processed by BKPM
(PMDN investment) and non-PMDN investment for which discretionary approval was
required; and for the industrial sector, all areas that are open to domestic
investment are also open to foreign investment.
Maritime Transport
7.       The compulsory scrapping policy for ships was suspended in February
1988. This was followed by a major package of shipping deregulation measures
on November 21, 1988. This package reduces and simplifies business license
procedures, allows shipping lines to determine their own route structures and
schedules, and eases entry for both foreign and domestic companies. As a
result, Indonesia now has a more open and unregulated shipping industry than
most other maritime nations.
8.       The major measures announced on November 21, 1988 are as followst
o The number of shipping business licence types is reduced from five
(ocean, interisland, local, special, and "peoples6) to two
(international/domestic and ^peoples^). Licences are valid for as



- 62 -                      ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 6
long as the holder remains in business, unless revoked/suspended for
non-compliance with certain regulations.
O The prohibition on the issue of new shipping business licences,
imposed in 1976, is removed.
O The requirement for shipping businesses to possess a separate
operating licence is removed. The business licence now serves also
as the operating licence.
O Non-shipping companies need only obtain an operating licence to
operate ships for the transport of their own raw materials or
products. This applies also to companies in the tourism field which
wish to operate vessels as an integral part of their main business.
Provision is also made for such "own-account" operators to serve
third parties subject to obtaining the permission of the Minister.
O Joint venture companies may be established between national and
foreign shipping lines to serve domestic and/or international routes.
O The conditions which must be met in order to obtain a shipping
business licence are relaxed considerably. In particular, national
shipping companies wishing to obtain an internationalidomestic
licence need only own or control (by leasing or charter) one
seaworthy Indonesian flag vessel. Previously it was necessary to own
two vessels of specified sizes. Joint ventures are required to own
at least one Indonesian flag vessel. There is no longer a minimum
working capital requirement. Applicants are required to have a tax
number (NPWP).
o Applications for shipping business licenses (and operating licences
for non-shipping businesses) are required to be processed within 14
working days. A written explanation must be furnished in the event
of an application being refused. Those which have been refused may
be resubmitted as soon as the applicant is able to comply fully with
the conditions for licence issue.
O National shipping lines are allowed to decide, individually or in
consultation with one another, which routes to serve and which
vessels to operate on them. These decisions, and any subsequent
amendments, must be reported to the Director General of Sea
Communications (Seacom), but no approvals are required. Schedules
are required to be publicized in the mass media and advised to the
Commodities Bourse.
O The Government may instruct a state enterprise to operate certain
routes which are not served by the private sector.
O Licensed national shipping lines may use foreign flag vessels,
operated under a charter or some other agreement, on domestic routes
without obtaining approval from Seacom. For this purpose, the
business licence is construed as being the *Flag Conditions
Dispensation* required by the Shipping Law.



- 63 -                      ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 6
o National shipping lines no longer require approval from Secom for
transactions involving the domestic purchaselsale of vessels or the
docking of vessels. They must, however, report all such transactions
to Seacom.
o The Commodity Bourse is required to establish and maintain an
information service designed to meet the needs of providers and users
of domestic and international cargo shipping services, and to provide
facilities for the making of transactions.
Financial Sector Reforms
9.    The Government announced major financial sector reforms on October 27,
1988 and December 20, 1988. The main objectives of these measures were to
enhance financial sector efficiency by encouraging competition and increase
the availability of long-term finance by promoting the development of the
capital market. Steps were also taken to improve tbh stability of the
financial system, by strengthening prudential regulations and monetary
control.
10.   The major measures announced on October 27, 1988 are as follows:
o The entry of new private banks, including joint ventures with foreign
banks, has been reopened. Paid-up capital requirements are
Rp.50 billion for joint-venture banks and Rp.10 billion for other
pr-ivate banks. Joint-venture banks require 152 domestic ownership,
!ad 502 of their total credits outstanding must be export-related
after one year.
o Restrictions on opening branches have been eased. Private national
banks can now open bank branches throughout Indonesia. Foreign banks
and NBFIs can open offices in seven major cities: Jakarta, Bandung,
Semarang, Surabaya, Medan, Ujung Pandang and Denpasar. For sub-
branch offices of foreign banks, 502 of their total credits
outstanding must be export-related after one year.
O Rural credit banks may be established in districts outside the
capital, provincial capitals and municipalities. Paid-up capital
requirements are Rp.10 million.
O The requirements to become a foreign exchange bank have been eased,
based on soundness criteria and total assets of at least
Rp.100 billion. Branch offices of foreign exchange banks no longer
require separate licenses. Licenses for money changers will now be
valid indefinitely.
o Public enterprises are now permitted to place up to 502 of their
deposits with private banks and NBFIs. Not more than 202 of their
deposits can be placed in any one institution.
O Loan concentration ratios have been set for banks and NBFIs. Up to
202 of own capital can be lent to any single borrower, 502 to any
group of borrowers, and 52 to members of the Board of Commissioners.



ANNEX VII
- 64 -                       Page 5 of 6
o  NBFIs are now allowed to issue certificates of deposit (CDs).  Nether
banks nor NBFIs require a license to issue CDs.
O A 15% withholding tax has been levied on tim.e deposits and CDs.
Specified savings schemes are exempt. This tax eliminates the
previous discrimination against other financial instruments.
O Banks and NBFIs are now allowed to raise capital by issuing shares on
the capital market.
o Differential reserve requirements for banks and liabilities have been
replaced with a uniform and lower rate of 2U. The previous reserve
requirements were around 152.
O The maturities on Bank Indonesia certificate (SBIs) and money market
securities (SBPUs) have been extended from 7 days up to 6 months.
The ceiling on interbank loans (previously 15S of funds mobilized
from third parties) has been removed.
O The premium on foreign exchange swaps is now to be based on market
conditions, namely the difference between the average domestic
deposit rate and LIBOR. The maximum maturity of swaps has been
extended from 6 months to 3 years.
11.      The major measures announced on December 20, 1988 are as follows:
o The private sector will now be allowed to operate stock exchanges in
Jakarta and other major cities. The exchange company must have paid-
up capital of Rp.500 million, and all shares must be owned by
Indonesian citizens or corporations.
o New licenses will be issued for national and joint venture companies
in insurance, leasing, factoring, venture capital, consumer finance
and securities activities. Licensing procedures have been
simplified. Paid-up capital requirements have been established for
these activities, and solvency ratios have also been set for
insurance companies.
12.      Other measures in the financial sector are as follows:
o An over-the-counter (OTC) market has been set up to enable smaller,
less-well-established firms to issue shares. This proposal was
announced in December 1987, and the first share issue was
successfully completed in January 1989.
O In February 1989, development of the secondary market in monetary
instruments was promoted by allowing the establishment of brokers and
encouraging banks and NBFIs to function as market makers.
O On March 25, 1989, the Government removed the ceiling on offshore
borrowings by banks and NBFIs, and replaced it with general soundness
criteria. This is intended to provide a source of lower cost funds
for exporters, as export credit subsidies are phased out.



- 65 -                      ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 6
o The March 25, 1989 measures also clarified the definitions for paid-
up capital and loan concentration ratios under the October 1988
package. The earlier requirement that existing rural banks upgrade
to commercial banks or move out of capital cities has been relaxed.



