                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00003533



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IBRD-79020 IBRD-79030 IBRD-79040)



                                   ON LOANS

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF USD100 MILLION
                  TO TÜRKİYE KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş.,

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF USD200 MILLION
                       TO T.C. ZIRAAT BANKASI A.Ş.,

                                      AND

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF USD200 MILLION
                     TO T. VAKIFLAR BANKASI T.A.O.

          WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                    FOR THE

  SECOND ACCESS TO FINANCE FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
                           PROJECT

                                  August 5, 2015




Finance and Markets
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2015)

                     Currency Unit= New Turkish Lira (TRY)
                             TRY 1.00 = US$ 0.382
                             US$ 1.00 = TRY 2.616

                                  FISCAL YEAR

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF               Additional Financing
BRSA             Bankacılık Düzenleme ve Denetleme Kurumu, Banking Regulation and
                 Supervision Agency
CBRT             Central Bank Republic of Turkey
CPS              Country Partnership Strategy
D/E              Debt-to-Equity
DSCR             Debt service coverage
EFIL             Export Finance Intermediation Loan
EIB              European Investment Bank
Eximbank         Turkiye Ihracat Kredi Bankasi A.S.
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
IBRD             International Bank For Reconstruction And Development
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IFI              International Financial Institution
IEG              Independent Evaluation Group
IL               Investment Loan
ISR              Implementation Status And Results
IT               Information Technology
M&E              Monitoring And Evaluation
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PDO              Project Development Objective
PFI              Participating Financial Institution
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
SME              Small And Medium Enterprise
TL               Turkish lira
TSKB             Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
TUIK             Türkiye İstatistik Kurumu, Turkish Statistical Institute
WCL              Working capital loan

           Senior Global Practice Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                         Practice Manager: Aurora Ferrari
                     Project Team Leader: Alper Ahmet Oguz
                        ICR Team Leader: Ilias Skamnelos
                          TURKEY
SECOND ACCESS TO FINANCE FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
                         PROJECT



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 46
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 48
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Second Turkey Access to
Country:                      Turkey              Project Name:         Finance for Small and
                                                                        Medium Enterprises Project
                                                                        IBRD-79020,IBRD-
Project ID:                   P118308             L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                        79030,IBRD-79040
ICR Date:                     07/09/2015          ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:           FIL                 Borrower:             REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Original Total Commitment: USD 500.00M            Disbursed Amount: USD 500.00M
Revised Amount:               USD 500.00M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi (TKB)
 Vakiflar Bankasi (Vakif Bank)
 T.C. Ziraat Bankasi A.S. (Ziraat Bank)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/24/2009      Effectiveness:                                08/12/2010
Appraisal:             04/05/2010      Restructuring(s):                             09/16/2014
Approval:              06/15/2010      Mid-term Review:
                                       Closing:                   09/30/2014         03/31/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                             None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                              5                     5
General finance sector                                               15                15
General industry and trade sector                                    10                10
SME Finance                                                          70                70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                           67                67
Other Private Sector Development                                     33                33

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                         At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:                 Cyril E Muller                   Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:               Martin Raiser                    Ulrich Zachau
Practice Manager/Manager: Aurora Ferrari                         Lalit Raina
Project Team Leader:            Alper Ahmet Oguz                 Carlos Pinerua
ICR Team Leader:                Ilias Skamnelos
ICR Primary Author:             Aminata Ndiaye


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's main development objective is to broaden and deepen the access of Turkish
small and medium enterprises to medium- and long-term finance, with a view to ultimately
contributing to an expansion of productive activities and job creation.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target           Formally         Actual Value
                                          Values (from              Revised          Achieved at
      Indicator           Baseline Value
                                            approval                Target          Completion or
                                           documents)               Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :            Number of SME beneficiaries
Value (Quantitative or
                         n/a                200                                 746
Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/15/2010         09/30/2014                          03/31/2015
Comments (incl. %
                         Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :            Increase in employment in beneficiary SMEs
Value (Quantitative or
                         n/a                >0                                  6,918
Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/15/2010         09/30/2014                          03/31/2015
Comments (incl. %
                         Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :            Increase in sales in beneficiary SMEs
Value (Quantitative or
                         n/a                >0                                  TL2.1 billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/15/2010           09/30/2014                       03/31/2015
                         Fully achieved. TL2.1 billion is equivalent to USD900 million using end-
Comments (incl. %
                         2014 exchange rate. Due to exchange rate differentials over the life of the
achievement)
                         project, project performance cannot be reported in U.S. dollars.
Indicator 4 :            Share of finance provided to underserved regions
Value (Quantitative or
                         n/a                25%                 17%             20%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/15/2010         09/30/2014          03/31/2015      03/31/2015
Comments (incl. %
                         Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 5 :            Quality of project financed portfolio ‒ NPL ratio
Value (Quantitative or
                         n/a                7%                                  0.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/15/2010         09/30/2014                          03/31/2015
Comments (incl. %
                         Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 6 :            Number of participating financial institutions
Value (Quantitative or
                         n/a                5                                   6
Qualitative)
Date achieved            06/15/2010         09/30/2014                          03/31/2015
Comments (incl. %
                         Fully achieved
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                          Values (from                         Achieved at
       Indicator        Baseline Value                      Revised
                                            approval                          Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                          documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :         Volume of Bank support
Value (Quantitative
                    n/a                   100% of loan                       104%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       06/15/2010            09/30/2014                         03/31/2015
                    Fully achieved. Due to exchange rate differentials over the life of the
Comments (incl. %
                    project, a total of USD518.5 million was disbursed by the Borrowers to
achievement)
                    SME beneficiaries
Indicator 2 :       Borrower- Compliance with prudential norms
Value (Quantitative
                    compliant             compliant                          compliant
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       06/15/2010            09/30/2014                         03/31/2015
Comments (incl. %
                    Fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :       PFI - Compliance with prudential norms
Value (Quantitative
                    compliant             compliant                          compliant
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       06/15/2010            09/30/2014                         03/31/2015
Comments (incl. %
                    Fully achieved
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                             DO                        IP                Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1      01/04/2011          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     79.50
  2      10/05/2011          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    270.94
  3      05/01/2012          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    356.46
  4      01/02/2013          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    413.75
  5      10/28/2013          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    460.03
  6      07/05/2014          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             460.03
  7      12/30/2014          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             472.52
  8      03/31/2015          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             498.75
H. Restructuring (if any)

               Board ISR Ratings at     Amount
Restructuring Approved Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)      PDO                  Restructuring         Key Changes Made
                        DO      IP
               Change               in USD millions
                                                       (i) extend the project closing by
                                                      six months to end-March, 2015;
                                                      (ii) revise the disbursement
                                                      requirement for priority regions
                                                      from 25 to 15 percent of total
                                                      disbursements; (iii) cancel legal
                                                      covenants regarding financial
                                                      requirements for priority regions;
  09/16/2014      N         S   MS       472.52
                                                      (iv) revise the target value of the
                                                      PDO level indicator “Share of
                                                      finance provided to priority
                                                      regions” in accordance with point
                                                      (ii) above, and; (v) modify the
                                                      disbursement estimates due to the
                                                      extension of the closing date in
                                                      accordance to point (i) above.




I. Disbursement Profile
The Second Access to Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises (SME II) Project fully
disbursed a total of USD500 million after a six-month project extension. The original project
was approved by the World Bank in June 2010, and comprised of three loans: (i) USD100 million
to Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi (Kalkinma Bank); (ii) USD200 million to Ziraat Bankasi (Ziraat
Bank), and; (iii) USD200 million to Vakiflar Bankasi (Vakif Bank). Kalkinma Bank, acting as on-
lender (also known as wholesale or tier two lender), fully disbursed in September 2012. Ziraat Bank
and Vakif Bank, both direct lenders (also known as retail or tier one lenders), fully disbursed at
project closing in March 2015, following a six-month project extension from December, 2014. In
total, the project provided access to medium and long-term finance to 746 small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) for working capital and investment purposes, in Euros, US Dollars and Turkish
Lira.

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Turkey sustained strong economic growth between 2002 and 2007, translated into significant
poverty reduction. After the 2001 banking crisis that led to sharp recession and restructuring of
the financial sector, economic growth averaged 6.8 percent and stayed above 4.5 percent during
this time period. Trade volumes increased significantly and continuously, with trade accounting for
about 45 percent of GDP in 2008, up from 38 percent in 2002. Poverty levels were substantially
reduced, falling from 30 to 8.4 percent, between 2002 and 2007. Investment levels remained
modest, however, and growth was increasingly driven by domestic demand.

The Turkish economy was significantly affected by the global financial crisis, although it
turned to rapid recovery by 2010. GDP growth declined from 4.7 percent in 2007 to 0.7 percent
in 2008 and negative 4.8 percent in 2009. Real private investment dramatically dropped from 30
percent per annum until 2004, to just 2.6 in 2007 and negative 22.5 in 2009. Total exports plunged
23 percent between 2008 and 2009 to just over USD100 billion. Unemployment rose from 10 to 14
percent from 2002 to 2009. Macroeconomic volatility impacted the financial sector, which was still
recovering from the 2001 crisis, and led to increased difficulties for enterprises in accessing
investment finance. The authorities’ response to the crisis was broad-based - it included monetary
policy easing, employment measures, and targeted fiscal stimulus. The preparation of the SME II
Project was undertaken as Turkey begun its recovery, with annual GDP growth rebounding to 9.2
percent in 2010.

Access to finance for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) tightened in the aftermath of
the crisis, with evidence pointing to significant inequality in the provision of credit. Between
December, 2007, and December, 2009, the SME share in total loans declined by about 7 percentage
points to around 23 percent, and the share of SME loans as a percentage of corporate credit dropped
from 53 percent to around 45 percent. SMEs were perceived as higher risk, often lacking the
necessary collateral to access funding and, in particular, longer-term finance. In 2010, 99.9 percent
of Turkish businesses were SMEs, which accounted for 76 percent of employment, 64 percent of
total turnover and 50 percent of investments in tangible goods. The World Bank’s Enterprise
Survey of 2008 identified access to finance as the single most severe obstacle. The survey also
found that the loan application rejection rate for SMEs was significantly higher than that of larger
corporates. This inequality was more acute in the traditionally underserved regions - regions
classified as priority accounted for just 8 percent of total bank loans as of end-2008.

This prompted an SME-friendly policy response, including a request to the World Bank for
SME support in the form of a credit line intermediated by state-owned banks. In the wake of



                                                 1
the crisis, the Turkish authorities passed legislation earmarking USD1 billion to the Credit
Guarantee Fund for SMEs (prior to which, the fund had a modest paid-in capital of only USD55
million). In addition, funding for the Small and Medium Industry Development Organization
(KOSGEB) almost doubled to support credit subsidies and technical services. Turkish authorities
also asked the World Bank for a project that was expected to increase the ability of banks to provide
longer term maturities to SMEs, and promote investments and business growth. Project funds were
also earmarked for financing SMEs operating in provinces with low credit activities (in Eastern
and Southeastern regions). The government aimed to ensure that SME credit and productivity gaps
between advanced and lagging regions would not widen during the post-crisis period. Demand for
affordable longer-term funding was strong, given the prevailing high interest rates (policy rates of
more than 16 percent) and short loan maturities (with 60 percent of corporate loans having a
maturity of three years or less). Moreover, the project would help the financial sector further
develop its investment lending business by demonstrating that term lending can be a viable business
proposition, while building the necessarily skills at Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) to
appraise term loans.

The credit line operation was consistent with the FY08–11 Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) and part of a comprehensive package of analytical, advisory, and financial sectoral
support. The top priorities of the FY08–11 CPS included improving the business climate, financial
markets stability, and filling the gap in accessing credit facilities. Moreover, SMEs were included
as a core pillar of the "Increasing Competitiveness" axis of development in the Turkish
Government’s Ninth Development Plan (2007–13), with financial system improvements as a key
driver. Finally, preliminary results of the 2010 Investment Climate Assessment provided evidence
that access to finance was consistently associated with the ability of firms to generate employment
and grow in size.

The credit line also complemented existing credit facilities provided by the World Bank and
other international organizations, including the Access to Finance for SME project (SME I).
The SME II project sought to build on the success of the SME I project, which was approved in
2006 and had been scaled up twice with additional financing. A total amount of USD700 million
was being intermediated by a state-owned bank, Halkbank, and a private development bank that
enjoys the guarantee of the Turkish Treasury, Türkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB). The SME I
project was being successfully implemented at the time of SME II approval: 450 firms operating in
developed and underserved regions obtained investment and working capital loans with an average
maturity of over 5 years. At the time of SME II project approval, the World Bank’s Fourth Export
Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL IV) project was also being implemented by Eximbank and
TSKB, along with several credit lines provided by other International Financial Institutions (IFIs)
and bilateral development agencies - the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Bank of
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the German Development Bank (KfW), and the French
Development Agency (AFD).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project’s main development objective is to broaden and deepen the access of Turkish
small and medium enterprises to medium- and long-term finance, with a view to ultimately
contributing to an expansion of productive activities and job creation.

To measure progress towards the achievement of PDOs, the following performance indicators
were approved:
           Number of SME beneficiaries financed under the project;
           Increase or preservation of employment and sales in the beneficiary SMEs;



                                                  2
               Share of finance provided to the underserved regions under the project;
               Quality of portfolio financed under the project;
               Number of financial institutions participating under the project.

Other key indicators for measuring project outcomes were:
    The amount of credit line disbursed;
    The financial performance of Borrowers and PFIs.

The PAD anticipated that additional information would be collected on: (i) SMEs (size, sector,
geographical location, and exports), and (ii) loans (size, interest rates, and maturity). The Bank
would also monitor overall trends in access to finance for SMEs, as well as the financial
performance of participating banks and PFIs.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The primary beneficiaries for this project, as identified in the PAD, were SMEs. SMEs were
defined as firms with fewer than 250 employees and an annual turnover of less than USD20 million.
This definition was in line with Turkish legislation and the Ministry of Industry and Trade
regulations. Private SMEs (private ownership of more than 50 percent) operating in all regions and
sectors were eligible for financing under the project. The project also sought to make financing
available to SMEs in underserved regions (as identified in the Official Gazette). There were no
sector restrictions or quotas.

The secondary project beneficiaries were the six financial institutions - three participating
banks and three PFIs. First, the project’s requirements for PFIs to comply with banking and
leasing regulations and financial covenants was expected to help PFIs build capacity in terms of
risk management, procurement, and financial management and environmental safeguards. PFIs
would gain valuable experience working with IFI procedures, and ultimately be able to attract new
credit lines financed by other IFIs active in Turkey. Second, all institutions’ access to medium- and
long-term funding would help them expand business in medium- and long-term lending and
financial leasing activities, while reducing the maturity mismatches on their balance sheet. Third,
it was anticipated that the three participating banks, which were selected for their strong
management and implementation capacity, would learn from the project’s specific lending
requirements, in terms of credit assessment tools. The project specifically required financial
institutions to rely on firms’ financial condition for their lending decisions (assessed through cash
flows, the debt-to-equity and debt service coverage ratios). Financial institutions did not usually
rely on such credit assessment tools, instead focusing on collateral. As such, the project was
expected to lead to changes in SME financing, especially in the maturity of financial products
offered to SMEs and the collateral requirements.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project built on the design of the predecessor SME I project. The project comprised of three
components, one for each borrower:

Component 1 (USD100 million) consisted of credit-line to Kalkinma Bank, as the borrower and
implementing agency. Kalkinma Bank, as on-lender, passed funds to PFIs through Subsidiary



                                                 3
Finance Agreements for further on-lending to eligible SMEs. There was no pre-allocation between
PFIs.
Component 2 (USD200 million) consisted of a credit line to Ziraat Bank, which operated as a
direct lender to SMEs.
Component 3 (USD200 million) consisted of a credit line to Vakif Bank, which operated as a
direct lender to SMEs.
Loans to Kalkinma Bank, Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank were provided by the World Bank, with a
Government of Turkey guarantee.

1.6 Revised Components
N/A

1.7 Other significant changes

With regards to Component 1, Kalkinma Bank had one reallocation of Loan proceeds
between PFIs. At the beginning of the project, Kalkinma Bank had selected two banks ‒Garanti
Bank and Deniz bank‒ to on-lend project funds to SMEs. Within the first year, Kalkinma Bank
reallocated part of its line of credit from Garanti Bank to Garanti Leasing.

                        Table 1: Allocation of Kalkinma Bank credit line
                                                      Initial         Final
                          (in USD millions)
                                                    allocation     allocation
                  Garanti Bank                          65              40
                  Deniz Bank                            35              35
                  Garanti Leasing                        -              25
                  Total                                 100            100

Project requirements were revised in September, 2014, affecting Components 2 and 3. A
project restructuring was undertaken to remove financial covenants for SMEs operating in
underserved regions (i.e. the requirements related to the debt-to-equity and the debt service
coverage ratios). The minimum amount to be disbursed to SMEs in these regions was also reduced
from USD100 million to USD60 million.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The SME II project built on significant World Bank experience with credit lines in Turkey.
Between 1999 and 2010, four export finance intermediation projects (the EFIL series) and the
predecessor SME finance project were approved by the World Bank, totaling over USD2 billion.
The Government of Turkey had also signed several lines of credit with other IFIs and bilateral
development agencies. The accumulated knowledge helped inform the SME II project design in
increasing the new line’s developmental impact.

The project’s preparation and design were based on the following lessons learned from
previous credit line operations:

(i) Consistency with Bank and Government priorities. The project’s design was aligned with
the FY08-11 CPS and reflected the Turkish government’s strategic priorities.

(ii) Flexible design.


                                               4
       Currency and interest rate: The World Bank financing included an option for the borrowers
        to convert the original loans into an “approved currency”, and from variable to fixed
        interest rate (and vice-versa). Lending in local currency was also allowed.
       Sub-lending requirements: First, the project had no restrictions on eligible sectors.
        Experience from previous credit lines showed that imposing any type of restrictions on
        credit lines was counter-effective, because lending would not be demand-driven. Second,
        loans could be denominated in any currency (USD, EUR or TL). There were no rigid pre-
        allocations per PFIs (for Kalkinma Bank), nor per sector or per type of loans (investment
        or working capital). The project however did provide for a minimum percentage of loans
        to finance SMEs in underserved regions. This requirement was driven by the Turkish
        Treasury, as applicable to all credit line operations at the time. Sub-lending was expected
        to be demand-driven, as long as demand form underserved regions exceeded the regional
        targets that have been imposed. This optimistic scenario did not materialize during project
        implementation, and lead to significant delays. The SME I ICR explicitly pointed to the
        inefficiency of regional lending quotas, and to Halkbank’s difficulty in achieving this
        lending target towards project closing.

(iii) Inclusion of leasing in credit lines. Leasing companies were included in the SME II project,
as an enhancement compared to the SME I project.1 The inclusion of leasing companies as financial
intermediaries built on the successful experience under the EFIL series, which had helped: (a) reach
smaller firms that are more accessible by leasing companies; and (b) assist the development of the
leasing sector, and thereby deepening and diversifying the financial sector.

(iv) Quality of participating financial institutions. Kalkinma Bank, Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank
were all selected on the basis of sound bank analysis and audited financial performance data. The
World Bank preparation team conducted detailed assessments, after which the three banks were
deemed to be well capitalized and profitable, with a sound loan portfolio. All participating banks
are government-owned, with strong management capacity. Kalkinma Bank was rated by Fitch
ratings and had previous experience working with IFIs, including the World Bank. Ziraat Bank and
Vakif Bank were also rated by several agencies at the time of approval, including by Moody’s.
They have also been selected given their large network, strong focus on SMEs and geographically
diversified lending practices.

(v) Decentralized decision-making and market-oriented lending. Two important lessons,
incorporated from previous credit lines, were the use of established market practices for the
selection of PFIs and SMEs/sub-projects. For example, with Kalkinma Bank selecting and carrying
the credit risk of PFIs, and PFIs selecting and carrying the credit risk of SMEs, the choices of the
participants in the project was made by the entities best capable of identifying good financial
intermediaries and eligible enterprises. Qualitative criteria set out in the project, and monitored
during supervision, helped ensure that the choices were made on a sound basis.

(vi) Lower transaction costs for PFIs, thanks to business-oriented project requirements. In
line with simplification trends initiated in the predecessor EFIL series and the SME I project, the
SME II project reduced project requirements for PFIs, closely aligning these with business practices,
in order to reduce the transaction costs. Earlier ICRs had highlighted that onerous environmental,
procurement, and other project requirements tend to lead to funds being allocated more restrictively,



1
  When the SME I project was originally approved, it was expected that leasing companies would
participate in the project through TSKB’s credit line. When TSKB requested to operate as a direct lender,
instead of on-lender, leasing companies were, by consequence, excluded.


                                                    5
towards larger transactions, and to firms with better access to finance. This meant, for example: (a)
use of procurement requirements that are suitable for private sector borrowers to make the project
more client-friendly and ensure its expeditious implementation; and (b) combining the Borrower
and Implementing Agency functions in one and the same entity for higher quality and expeditious
project implementation.

 (vii) Clear identification of risks and associated mitigation measures. The project’s risks
included: (i) macroeconomic risk, due to the global economic slowdown; (ii) credit risk of SMEs;
and (iii) implementation risks ‒ with this being Ziraat Bank’s and Vakif Bank’s first operations
with the World Bank, and Kalkinma Bank’s first operation with the World Bank as an on-lender.
Macroeconomic risks were mitigated by economy’s demonstrated resilience to external shocks. At
the project level, the Bank team had strong confidence in the three Participating banks’ institutional,
operational and outreach capacity. Furthermore, with regards to Kalkinma Bank, road shows were
proactively organized ahead of project approval to market the loan, and written expressions of
interest from four potential PFIs had been received before project approval.

The SME II project differed from the previous SME I operation in three ways:

      Financial intermediaries: the SME II project involved three borrowers, all of which were
state-owned banks, while a private development bank had participated in the SME I project
(TSKB). In addition, the SME II project allowed for the coexistence of the on-lending and direct
lending approaches in an identical operating environment (i.e. sub-lending criteria and project
requirements). The SME I project involved only two banks, both acting as direct lenders.

       Underserved regions:

Both the list of targeted regions and the amount earmarked for these regions differed
substantially between the SME I and SME II projects. First, the list of underserved regions as
defined in the Official Gazette dated October 17, although longer than in SME I, consisted of a
greater number of less developed provinces 2 The number of provinces that had a strong
entrepreneurial base with sufficient capacity to meet all project requirements was lower. Three
large and dynamic provinces (Hatay, Kayseri and Gaziantep) were considered “priority” in SME I,
but excluded from the list in SME II. The table in Annex 2 presents a comparison of target regions,
and highlights the absorption capacity of these target regions (through two indicators - total exports
and per capital gross value added). SMEs in Gaziantep were more likely to request and receive WB
financing in the SME I project, than SMEs in Elazig at the time of SME II. Second, the SME I
project assigned lending targets to Halkbank only, not TSKB. For every new loan agreement with
Halkbank, differentiated lending targets had been set ‒ 25 percent in 2007, 20 percent in 2008, and
30 percent in 2009. As a result, while the combined target for Halkbank was 25 percent over the
lifetime of the SME I project, the disaggregated picture shows that lending requirements need to
take into account the overall dynamics of the economy. The regional lending quota was indeed
lowered in 2008 at the onset of the global financial crisis. In 2009, the 30 percent lending quota for
underserved regions, set as the economy was recovering, was still difficult for Halkbank to fill.

The SME I project operated under different circumstances when it came to underserved
regions. The SME I project (approved in June 2006 and closed in April 2012) was the precursor to
several projects in Turkey that explicitly targeted underserved regions (both financed by the World
Bank and other development partners). The SME II project preparation discussions begun with how


2
 The list of underserved regions is determined by a decree each year attached to the budget law and
published in the Official Gazette.


                                                     6
much should be earmarked for the underserved regions, rather than if earmarking funds was
appropriate. At preparation, the project envisaged a 30 percent underserved regions target and, by
the time of approval, the project required that at least 25 percent of each of the three lines of credit
be disbursed in priority regions. The priority regions were identified in the Official Gazette dated
October 17, 2009, and including provinces located in South Anatolia, East Anatolia, and selected
ones in the Mediterranean, Central Anatolia and Black Sea regions of Turkey. The 25 percent
requirement was set by the Turkish Treasury at the time of project approval for all IFI loans that
were backed by a Turkish government guarantee. This ambitious target was set without an
assessment of demand and capacity in these regions, leading to saturation from diverse IFI loans
under blanket regional requirements.

     Financial covenants: In SME II, the minimum required DSCR was 1.2, higher than the
1.1 required in SME I in 2006 and the EFIL IV project approved in 2008 (see next section for
implications).

2.2 Implementation

The project became effective in August 2010, just two months after Board approval. Kalkinma
Bank’s credit line disbursed in 2012, two years ahead of the original project closing date. The
remaining two banks were able to fully disburse six months after the closing date, after project
restructuring. A midterm review of the project was not undertaken.

Factors that affected implementation outcomes can be organized into six categories.

A. Relevant country and sector context
The Turkish economy recovered rapidly from the global financial crisis, although some sectors
were more profoundly affected than others. SMEs, which played and continue playing an important
role in the economy, were the first casualties of the financing pressures that had surfaced during
project implementation. Overall, economic developments include:

The Central Bank’s monetary policy: In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, the
expansionary monetary policies adopted in the U.S. and the EU translated into the availability of
abundant and low-cost short-term foreign financing, which led to a rapid credit expansion and
appreciation pressure on the Turkish lira. In an effort to contain the accumulated macro-financial
risks and rising external imbalances, the Turkish Central Bank (CBRT) launched a new policy in
November 2010, which included the use of reserve requirements and an interest rate corridor to
regulate lending in the economy. Over the life of the SME II project, the policy rates and related
interest rate corridor fluctuated intensively.

                      Figure 1: Central Bank policy rates and interest rate corridor




                                                 Source: CBRT


                                                   7
Interest rate and exchange rate pressure: the Turkish Lira has continuously depreciated against the
US dollar since November 2010. The excessive volatility affected the willingness of SMEs to
borrow in US dollar, even to take advantage of the slightly lower rates. This ultimately reduced the
attractiveness of the credit line. Participating banks and PFIs decided to lend in Turkish Liras and
even in Euros, although the loan received was in US dollars. For example, the share of local
currency lending for Kalkinma Bank and Vakif Bank was 70 and 53 percent respectively. During
the ICR mission, most SMEs (even those sourcing materials from or selling abroad) expressed
some hesitation in borrowing in foreign-currency, especially in US dollars due to the high volatility
in the foreign-exchange market. On the other hand, the spike of the Central Bank’s monetary policy
rates translated into more expensive commercial loans, with the SME segment being no exception.
The project thus helped finance SMEs at a competitive rate.

                  Figure 2a: Exchange rate USD/TRY during project implementation




            Figure 2b. Weighted average interest rates for commercial bank loans
                         TRY                          |                  USD




                                    * please note the different scales
                                 Source: CBRT (Jan 2010 to May 2015)

B. Financial covenants

Similarly to previous credit line operations implemented in Turkey since 1999, the SME II
project filtered the group of eligible private SMEs based on their financial condition. In an
effort to stimulate cash-flow based financing, as opposed to the traditional collateral-based
financing, the project required banks to assess the eligibility of SMEs based on the debt-to-equity
ratio (maximum D/E ratio of 80:20) and debt-service coverage ratio (minimum DSCR of 1.2) based
on financial statements provided. The minimum requirements set for the SME II project were
however more restrictive than those of previous credit lines. This was primarily the result of the
World Bank team’s desire to be more prudent in incorporating new borrowers into the World
Bank’s lines of credit. Nevertheless, SMEs were required to be less leveraged and more liquid than
EFIL IV exporters and SME I beneficiaries, despite the context of the global economic slowdown.



                                                  8
      Table 2: comparison of financial covenants applicable to lines of credit in Turkey
                                       Amount                        D/E ratio        DSCR ratio
  Project Name              Year                  Closing
                                       (USD M)                      (minimum)         (minimum)
  SME I                     6/2006     650.0      4/2012              80:20               1:1
  EFIL IV                   5/2008     900.0      12/2014             85:15              1.1:1
  SME II                    6/2010     500.0      3/2015              80:20              1.2:1
  SME III                   6/2013     300.0      12/2017             80:20              1.2:1
  Innovative Finance        7/2014     250        12/2018             85:15              1.1:1

Overall, there were three main implications for the SME II project:

    (i)   Financial covenants did not account for challenges specific to the underdeveloped
          regions. The likelihood that financial statements accurately reflect business activities is
          higher in developed regions. Firms in underserved regions are often not able to present
          comprehensive financial statements, given higher levels of informality. The
          underreporting of commercial activity often includes sales, profit and employment.
    (ii) Financial covenants may be a crude tool compared to existing financial intermediary
         practices. Turkish banks have, over time, developed credit assessment methodologies to
         reflect the country specific context and the SME segment in particular, placing only partial
         importance on financial covenants such as the D/E and DSCR in the case of SMEs. Under
         the banks’ own credit policies, branches collect standard information on firm ownership,
         financial position and activities to assess creditworthiness frequently based on credit
         scoring methodologies. With the SME II project, participating financial institutions
         reported that the financial covenants would often be stringent and exclude loans that their
         methodology judged as viable. Discussions with other development partners highlight the
         uniqueness of World Bank lines of credit in that respect. Other development partners
         undertake due diligence of public and private financial institutions’ internal credit
         procedures at project preparation stage and avoid imposing specific financial constraints.
    (iii) Financial covenants may also be a crude tool for the specific assessment of high
          growth firms. A company with a high D/E ratio may be pursuing an aggressive growth
          strategy to propel itself among the top firms within the sector, region, or the country. The
          World Bank financial covenants would, however, exclude the inclusion of such high
          growth companies.
To address such issues, the project could have been more flexible in deploying these
covenants. Possible courses of actions could have included: (i) dropping the financial covenants
for all firms in underserved regions, and possibly relaxing them for firms in developed regions,
depending on firm size or sub-loan size; (ii) allowing financial intermediary exceptions if a bank’s
credit appraisal policies were assessed and found appropriate and adequate (similar to other
development partners); (iii) allowing sub-loan exceptions when justified e.g. when banks provided
additional information influencing the interpretation of the financial ratios, such as the a firm
belonging to a wider group in solid standing; or (iv) relaxing financial covenants for firms that
apply for investment or working capital loans within 12 months of obtaining an investment loan (if
well justified).


C. Lending in underserved regions

The regional lending requirement applied to all participating banks, independently of the
absorption capacity of the regions, and stalled implementation. For the SME I project, only


                                                  9
Halkbank was required to meet specific lending targets for priority regions3 . The rationale for
including all banks was that they were all state-owned banks. It was expected that Kalkinma Bank,
the public development bank, would partner with PFIs that have strong outreach capacity. With
regards to Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank, their branch network and lending patterns under their own
resources was satisfying in terms of their capacity to reach the underserved regions. Ultimately, the
five institutions (Ziraat Bank, Vakif Bank, Garanti Bank, Garanti Leasing and Deniz Bank)
intermediating funds to SMEs had to compete to provide funds to often the same SMEs in these
areas. This was mostly due to the narrow pool of eligible SMEs, as defined by the project
requirements. In other words, the number of SMEs operating in these regions that were both willing
and able to receive financing through the project was low, compared with the total number of SMEs
operating in the regions. The criteria that restricted the SME pool were: (a) ability to provide
financial statements, including cash-flow statements that reflect the company’s activities; (b)
compliance with D/E ratio requirements; (c) compliance with DSCR requirements; (d) ability to
provide collateral acceptable in quality and quantity by the banks; (e) ability and willingness to
provide additional documentation required for compliance with safeguards and fiduciary
requirements that are not required by other IFI loans; (f) willingness to receive funding in foreign
currency. As a result, the SME II project started to underperform in terms of disbursements in 2013,
as Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank (cumulatively responsible for four-fifths of the project amount)
experienced difficulties in meeting the lending target for underserved regions. For example, in
October 2013, Vakif Bank had fully disbursed the amount for SMEs in developed regions but only
disbursed 10 percent of the loan amount in underserved regions. By the time of restructuring in
September 2014, it had only reached 15 percent in underserved regions despite significant efforts.

The lending target set by the government at the time of project approval was revised
downwards in subsequent projects approved during SME II’s project implementation. Based
on the feedback received from the borrowing state banks, the Turkish Treasury reduced its regional
disbursement requirement from 25 to 15 percent of project funds. The lower regional targets were
already in effect at the time of the SME III project’s approval in June 2013.

E. Collateral requirements

Collateral requirements were a major impediment to project implementation in underserved
regions. The high collateral requirements from banks were formally identified as a constraint to
implementation in implementation mission Aide Memoires. This was confirmed during the project
completion mission. SMEs and banks reported that collateral-to-loan value requirements are much
higher in the underserved regions, while land valuation is much lower. This is due to higher
perceived credit risk and the more difficult execution of the collateral. Under a EIF credit guarantee
program (that underwrote loans of a substantially lower amount - up to TL 50,000), banks did not
require collateral and implementation was rapid.

F. Ziraat Bank’s reorganization

Ziraat Bank’s strong disbursement performance during the first year of project
implementation was reversed due to the bank’s comprehensive overhaul. The restructuring
process was launched in end-2011 and covered several areas, including the bank’s central and
regional organization structure, customer and branch segmentation, and portfolio management. The
objective of the restructuring was to increase efficiency, achieve sustainable profitability and better


3
 Halkbank had an overall target of 25 percent for priority regions under the SME 1 project, including
additional financing (25% in 2007; 20% in 2008 and 30% in 2009). TSKB, as a private development bank,
was not expected to lend to firms in underserved regions.


                                                  10
align products and services with client demand. The Bank’s new strategy had a clear focus on the
SME segment, with the establishment of 150 new branches solely dedicated to corporate,
commercial and the SME/Entrepreneur segments. The restructuring process was expected to be
completed in early 2013 but encountered delays. It halted Ziraat Bank’s disbursements as the PIU
team was affected. During the process, corporate, commercial and SME departments were moved
to Istanbul, including the PIU4. As a result, while disbursements cumulated to USD107 million
between September, 2010, and September, 2011, they slumped to just over USD13 million between
September 2011, and June 2013. This can be attributed to the low attention due to conflicting
priorities, but also to the need to establish collaboration mechanisms to facilitate the
implementation of the loan.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project’s monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework was comprehensive and well-
designed. The framework designed PDO indicators in line with the project’s objectives. The
indicators were in line with the project’s activities and adequately measured the project’s impact
(portfolio quality, geographical coverage, number of beneficiaries and PFIs). In an improvement
from the SME I project, the M&E framework monitored the project’s impact on SMEs in terms of
employment and revenues. However, two indicators that were monitored in the SME I project
results framework were dropped in the SME II project - the maturity and the currency of subloans.
As a result, these indicators were not reported in supervision documents.

M&E arrangements were clear and well implemented. The PAD and the project’s operations
manuals provided explicit M&E arrangements, as well as a clear definition of expectations in terms
of reporting. Baseline and targets were provided for all indicators. The Operations Manuals
designed appropriate reporting templates for consistency and reliability purposes. Indicators were
also effectively monitored during project supervision. Almost all Aide Memoires and
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) provided updated information for the results
framework. As a result, compared with its predecessor SME I, the consistency and quality of data
received for this ICR was satisfactory.

The M&E framework also anticipated the undertaking of a survey of project beneficiaries,
in order to better assess the impact of lines of credit operations. Such as survey aimed to reach
SMEs beyond those financed by the SME II Project – such as beneficiaries of EFIL and SME I
projects. The impact evaluation analysis was undertaken in 2011 and included data on SME I/II
and EFIL III/IV clients. The study was useful in providing insights on the additionality of such
credit lines. A beneficiary survey was not undertaken at project completion.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement, financial management, and environmental safeguards requirements were
detailed in the project Operations Manuals. Kalkinma Bank had a different role during project
implementation compared to Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank, given the different intermediation
models. The project Operations Manuals provided strong guidance to Kalkinma Bank, Ziraat Bank,
Vakif Bank, and the three PFIs. Each borrower established a PIU that was fully funded and staffed
by each bank, and operated under the overall supervision of a Deputy General Manager.

Implementation of fiduciary and environmental safeguards procedures was overall
satisfactory. The well-developed and comprehensive Operations Manuals, and the proactive and


4
    New staff was assigned to the PIU.


                                               11
continuous support from the World Bank team contributed to effective safeguards and fiduciary
compliance. The PIUs effectively undertook all project arrangements. The three participating banks
ensured that their operating systems were fully aligned with the project’s accounting, supervision,
and reporting requirements as per World Bank procedures. Moreover, PFIs selected by Kalkinma
Bank had prior experience with World Bank requirements through their participation in EFIL
operations. In addition, no disruption was experienced when Ziraat Bank’s PIU moved to Istanbul
from Ankara. Finally, the World Bank specialists provided several trainings to participating banks
and PFIs on fiduciary and environmental safeguards procedures.

Compliance with World Bank standards was, at times, challenging - in particular for
fiduciary requirements. Project implementation required intensive support from the relevant
specialists due to the borrowers’ unfamiliarity with World Bank procedures and the necessary
adjustment to their loan appraisal and monitoring practices that did not always match the project’s
requirements. With regards to compliance with environmental safeguards requirements, the project
implementation was satisfactory. The borrowers were mainly required to collect due-diligence
documents (i.e. proof of compliance), as the majority of subloans financed working-capital or
equipment leasing. Borrowers however had to overcome some challenges in order to comply with
fiduciary requirements.

       Procurement: Overall, all financial intermediaries followed the procedures described in
        the Operations Manuals. A few ineligible expenditures were identified during reviews and
        subsequently addressed. The participating banks and leasing company complained on the
        systematic requirement to justify their eligibility by keeping records of working-capital
        expenditures, which often comprise of several small-amount items. PFIs would rather have
        subborrowers keep their own records, and rely on audit reports to verify the eligibility of
        expenditures. In comparison, when using their own resources to provide working-capital
        loans, PFIs request only a procurement plan (or spreadsheet of planned transactions) at the
        time of the loan application. Procurement requirements were otherwise found to be
        generally in line with commercial practices.

       Financial management: Financial arrangements were mostly satisfactory. Kalkinma Bank
        developed a web-based platform that was used by PFIs for both the application process and
        financial management purposes. Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank each developed internal
        systems to improve loan monitoring by the PIU, and access to documentation for
        verification purposes. Financial reporting between PIUs and branches for the SME II loans
        improved in quality during project implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

An SME III project was approved three years into the implementation of the SME II project.
SME III, the successor to the SME II project, was approved in June 2013 with a similar project
design. The SME III project requires a minimum maturity of three years for subloans (compared to
two years in SME II), and at least 15 percent disbursement in underserved regions. The list of
underserved regions was updated to the Official Gazette dated October 18, 2012. As an innovative
departure from the SME I and SME II projects, the project design incorporated requirements of 25
percent co-financing by the borrower and 100 percent reflows to SMEs.

Three additional credit lines to Turkish banks were under implementation. Two energy
efficiency projects, approved in May 2009 and March 2013, provide financing for renewable
energy and energy efficiency investments‒ the latter is specifically targeting SMEs. Also, the
Innovative Access to Finance project, which was approved in July 2014, provides funding to SMEs
and exporters through participation banks (Islamic finance) and factoring companies – the first time


                                                12
the World Bank explores these two market segments in lines of credit. These credit lines were
provided to state and private banks with a guarantee from the Turkish Treasury for on-lending to
target beneficiaries either directly or through a subsidiary PFI. In all these projects, the objective
remains to provide medium-and long-term financing. Despite some notable progress over the past
10 years, the maturity of loans in the overall banking sector has only gradually increased. This is
largely due to the unfavorable maturity structure of banks’ balance sheets. World Bank and other
IFI loans have contributed to gradually shifting the maturity structure of banks’ balance sheets
towards longer–term funding and lending.

New approaches to increase the leveraging potential of World Bank financing should be
explored. Credit lines have substantial leveraging potential, through co-financing and reflow
requirements, but also the ability of participating banks to attract additional financing from other
IFIs. Going forward, other approaches such as partial credit guarantees or risk sharing facilities
could be considered. The former would help banks receive more funding on international markets,
while the latter would provide more funding to Turkish firms and/or help address collateral
requirements. The World Bank made efforts to deploy an IBRD Partial Credit Guarantee in Turkey
to attract longer term finance from international lenders, however the project was dropped before
Board approval at the request of the Turkish Treasury.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project remains highly relevant to Turkey’s development priorities and its design
reflected constraints to SME finance. The project was fully in line with the CPS priorities at
preparation and during implementation, as well as the 2007–13 Government’s Development Plan.
The project is also fully consistent with the FY12–16 CPS, as well as the Tenth National
Development Plan (NDP) (2014–18).

The project provided critical long-term funding in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
In the context of an unprecedented international liquidity crisis, the project provided for a quick
disbursement instrument at reasonable cost. As a wholesale lender, Kalkinma Bank quickly
allocated funds to PFIs, and fully disbursed its credit line by September 2012, two years ahead of
schedule. Demand from PFIs can only attest to demand in the real economy. For SMEs, funding
was provided at competitive rates. Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank both used their large branch network
to reach out to remote, eligible borrowers. Although financial reflows to SMEs were not required
and despite the long maturity of SME II subloans, Kalkinma Bank reported reflows of USD18
million since September 2012.

The project relied on multiple delivery models, as an improvement from the SME I project.
First, there were three borrowers, acting as on-lenders and direct lenders. On-lenders are able to
reach several financial intermediaries with the end-goal of widening impact to PFIs and a
potentially larger number of SMEs. Direct lenders included in this project already had the privilege
of a large and wide branch network, clientele, and product offering. Second, the decision to include
state-owned banks was also fortuitous, given their risk tolerance and mandate to lend in
underserved regions compared to private banks. Third, leasing companies were involved in the
implementation of an SME finance project as effective relays for investment finance. These
coexisting models in a project design that imposed the same requirements on all borrowers allowed
for a comparison of lending patterns useful for future interventions.




                                                 13
Implementation and M&E arrangements were strong and well-defined. During project
preparation, the World Bank team candidly assessed potential implementation risks and developed
effective arrangements to mitigate these risks. In addition, the project’s implementation
arrangements were fully described in the Operations Manuals. The M&E framework was
comprehensive (including baselines and targets), fully integrated with implementation
arrangements, and even led to the completion of an impact study useful for both SME and EFIL
projects for the first time.

The project also provided a learning opportunity for all participants. The financial
intermediaries – all three participating banks and PFIs– in this project had no prior experience in
World Bank credit line operations providing finance to SMEs. Moreover, only Kalkinma Bank and
the PFIs on its credit line had been exposed to World Bank fiduciary and safeguards requirements.
Kalkinma Bank, which had initial difficulties in implementing the project and a previous IFI credit
line as an on-lender, learned effective ways to accelerate the implementation of future projects.
Ziraat Bank built on its experience as retail lender in SME II, for the implementation of the SME
III project, this time as a wholesale lender. For Ziraat this meant relying on the same PIU and
pursuing proven practices to ensure compliance with fiduciary and environmental procedures.

Project implementation was affected in the past two years by the ambitious lending targets
for underserved regions. The project very ambitiously aimed to provide financing of two years or
more for SMEs operating in underserved regions, under the assumption that these firms would have
similar financial capabilities as those operating in developed regions (i.e. financial covenants).
Moreover, it was assumed that the demand for project funds from eligible borrowers would more
than cover the funds earmarked for these regions. Demand was however affected to some extent by
the lower export volumes in the southeastern region due to the geopolitical crisis in neighboring
countries. Disbursements in these regions thus progressed slowly until the restructuring was
undertaken in September, 2014. Participating banks and PFIs struggled to find eligible borrowers
that were interested in receiving financing during the implementation period. The project’s
requirements may have adversely led to the selection of more sophisticated, thus less financially-
constrained SMEs, especially in underserved regions. However, even for more sophisticated firms,
the project provides a distinct advantage through the provision of longer-term finance (minimum
maturity of 2 years).

The project restructuring accelerated disbursements and allowed for a successful project
completion. The restructuring aimed to better align project developmental objectives with the
regions’ absorption capacity. The project’s closing date was extended by only six months, but the
project fully disbursed within this short timeframe. The key factor that explains this successful
outcome was the removal of financial covenants for SMEs operating in underserved regions, along
with intensified marketing efforts by the two remaining borrowers.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project’s main development objective of (i) broadening and deepening the access of
Turkish SMEs to medium- and long-term finance, and (ii) contributing to an expansion of
productive activities and job creation, was fully achieved. All project development indicators
exceeded their end-project targets. At closing, the project’s achievements were substantial.

Broaden and deepen the access of Turkish SMEs to finance.

       Financial intermediation: The project contributed to the development of financial
        intermediaries. The project relied on six financial institutions for implementation: five
        private and state banks, as well as a leasing company, were responsible for intermediating


                                                14
          funds to SMEs. These financial institutions had no prior exposure to World Bank standards
          for SME lines of credit and, at closing, valued this learning experience that was helpful in
          securing and administering other IFI credit lines. Furthermore, the credit risk of the project
          was low compared with the average for the SME sector that had an NPL ratio of 3.5 percent
          as of end-March 2015. The project’s NPL ratio was 0.5 percent in number and 0.7 percent
          in volume (below the 7 percent target). Finally, the project contributed to a healthy
          financial sector because all project participants were required to maintain strong financial
          health throughout the life of the project. Kalkinma Bank, Ziraat Bank, Vakif Bank, and the
          PFIs have all fully complied with the project’s financial covenants throughout project
          implementation.

         Lending in underserved regions: At the time of project restructuring, 10.6 percent of total
          project funds had been disbursed in underserved regions (or around USD54 million). At
          project closing, a combined 20 percent (USD 102 million) had been disbursed by all three
          participating banks in underserved regions. This significant achievement can be
          disaggregated as follows: Kalkinma Bank disbursed 30 percent of its credit line (USD30
          million) to SMEs on priority regions, Ziraat Bank 18 percent (USD34 million) and Vakif
          Bank 19 percent (USD38 million). The loan agreement did not specify the regional lending
          requirements per borrower in terms of number or disbursed amount of subloans5 . The
          indicator is considered fully achieved. The table below highlights the project’s
          achievements. Participating banks successfully disbursed 20 percent in underserved
          regions, twice the usual lending share dedicated to these regions by Turkish banks in
          general (see Annex 2).

                                Table 3: Lending in underserved regions
                                                Number of
                                                                    Percentage of        Percentage of
                            Regional             priority
                                                                     total loans          total loans
                          requirement6        provinces with
                                                                    (by number)          (by amount)
                                              SME II clients
    Kalkinma Bank              25%                  26                   36%                  30%
    Ziraat Bank                15%                  17                   18%                  16%
    Vakif Bank                 15%                  24                   30%                  19%
    Total                      17%                  39                   27%                  20%

Provision of medium- and long-term finance to SMEs.
A total of 956 loans were provided to 746 SMEs operating throughout Turkey, for a total amount
of USD519 million. The average loan size was USD620,000 (median USD404,000). The average
size of the beneficiary SMEs was 56 employees (median 40 employees) with an annual turnover of
TL13 million (median TL8.2 million) at the time of the loan application. The average maturity of
SME II loans was four years (47 months) disaggregated as follows: 38 months for loans disbursed
by Kalkinma Bank, 58 months for Ziraat Bank and 41 months for Vakif Bank. Investment loans
(USD142 million, 28 percent of total) had an average maturity of 49 months while working capital
loans (USD373 million, 72 percent of total) had an average maturity of 47 months. These loans
were offered at competitive rates and reflected market conditions, as evidence by mirroring rate
hikes in 2012 as per CBRT’s monetary policy. Finally, the spatial inequality that has been observed



5
  “The Borrower shall (…) ensure that at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the aggregate of Sub-loans and
Lease Financings shall be made (…) in the Priority Regions.”
6
  The regional lending requirement for Kalkinma Bank was not revised downwards because the bank had
already fully disbursed its credit line at the time of project restructuring.


                                                   15
in the overall banking system, is reduced in the SME II project: not only was a higher share of loans
disbursed in underserved regions, but more importantly, in developed regions lending has been
much less concentrated in Ankara, Gaziantep, Hatay and Istanbul which traditionally account for
57 percent of loans in Turkey7, compared with 29 percent in SME II. As a result, even within
developed regions, Bursa, Izmir, Kayseri and Konya received more financing then usual as a
percentage of total amounts, in order to finance growth in these regions.

                       Figure 3a: SME II loan distribution by loan amount




                             3b: SME II loan distribution by maturity




Contribute to an expansion of productive activities and job creation.
    Sales growth: For beneficiary SMEs, the project contributed to increased revenues in the
       total amount of TL2.1 billion. Due to the depreciation of the lira over the life of the project,
       additional sales in Turkish Lira often result in lower sales in US dollar. For that reason, it
       is not possible to provide meaningful ratios of sales to disbursed amounts. Nevertheless,
       individual loan data provide useful insights. First, firms that received financing in 2010
       were affected by the crisis and mostly sustained, rather than expanded, their activities. Only
       15 percent of loans approved in 2010 were for investment purposes. Second, the project’s
       impact in terms of additional sales is largest for SMEs that received a loan in 2011. This
       suggests that the impact of loans is best measured at least three years after the loan was
       disbursed. Third, providing larger loans to larger firms seems to have the highest impact in
       terms of sales growth.

        Employment preservation and generation: about half of SMEs that received financing
         before 2015 created new jobs8. Overall, close to 7,000 net jobs have been created by firms



7
  Data as of December 31, 2013 provided by the Turkish Banking Association
8
 We do not have official employment and sales data for close to 200 firms that received financing between
January and April 2015. For the rest of the beneficiaries, 98 percent of employment data is available and 88
percent of sale data.


                                                    16
          financed by the project9, after receiving an SME II loan. For firms that grew, the employee
          headcount increased by 16 percent with the project. For SMEs that received a loan only in
          2015, an estimated 350 jobs will be created in 2015. Furthermore, the project helped sustain
          employment at 173 beneficiary SMEs (7,800 jobs). As a result, in total, over 35,000 jobs
          have been preserved by firms that generated or sustained employment levels after receiving
          the loan, i.e., for every US$75,000 disbursed to an SME, one (1) job was created and five
          (5) jobs were preserved. Finally, further analysis of individual loan data suggests that: (i)
          providing financing to smaller firms has the highest employment impact; and (ii) SME
          beneficiaries created more jobs than firms that did not receive financing.

We also find that the employment and sales impact of the SME II project (firms that took loans in
before 2014) is statistically higher than that of the SME I project (firms that took loans in 2007 and
2008). Further details are provided in Annexes 2 and 3.

3.3 Efficiency

The project was highly efficient in generating sales and employment. Due to substantial exchange
rate differentials, estimated sales multipliers (ratio of increased sales to loan amount) are
necessarily biased and underestimated. 10 Nevertheless, the median sales growth for beneficiary
SMEs was 14.5 percent after receiving the loan (average of 40 percent, after excluding outliers).
Most firms (87 percent) were able to sustain if not increase their employment levels thanks to the
project (median growth of 0 percent but average of 34 percent, even after excluding startups).

Furthermore, the project allowed banks to provide financing to SMEs over a long period of time,
thereby providing financing to accompany these firms to grow. Finally, the project accompanied
11 firms in graduating from SME status, with an average headcount growth rate of 57 percent (end-
project employee headcount ranged from 255 to 545 employees).

The design of the project helped reach firms with high growth potential in underserved regions
(eastern and south eastern regions). The job creation rate was highest in these regions (see table 4).
Sales generation capacity was highest in firms operating in more developed regions. This suggests
that firms in underserved regions have more labor-intensive activities.
                              Table 4: employment and sales by regions
                              Investment                                                 Increase in sales
                                                     Increase in employment
                                 loans                                                     (TL million)
                                (% total      New     Avg.    Expected     Total per       Total     Avg.
                                amount)       jobs             in 2015     USD1mln
                                                                           disbursed
     Aegean                      14%         1,796      12       555           20          554.8       4.7
     Black Sea                   25%          220        2        83           11          108.9       5.4
     Central Anatolia            26%         1,432      10       383          18           382.0       3.8
     Eastern Anatolia            53%          698       21        90           48          154.5       9.1
     Marmara                     27%         1,625       7       316          11           730.7       4.6
     Mediterranean               43%          483       8         86          15           86.5        2.7
     Southeastern Anatolia       40%          664       15        27           20          124.9       5.7
     Total                       28%         6,918      9       1,540         16          2,142.3      4.6


9
  8,549 gross jobs were created and 1,631 jobs were lost; hence a net creation of 6,918 jobs
10
  Total sales increased in Turkish Lira by TL2.1 billion. However, when converting annual sales into US
dollars at year-end rates, we find that several firms had lower US dollar sales after they received the loans
(despite having higher Turkish lira sales).


                                                      17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: ― Satisfactory

The project met its development objectives, which remain highly relevant for Turkey. The
project coincided with an increased focus on SME development and contributed to an increase of
medium to long-term financing. The project contributed to job creation and investments in the
Turkish economy, at a time of a global economic slowdown. The M&E framework was well
designed and arrangements were helpful to provide more reliable information on the project’s
outcomes (compared to the SME I project). However, the original regional lending target was met
by only one borrower, and certain SMEs operating in underserved regions were de facto excluded
from project funds due to the project’s strict financial covenants.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project had a strong, albeit indirect, impact on poverty through the beneficiaries. The
project helped create 6,918 jobs and increased the revenues of participating SMEs by TL2.1
billion11 over the life of the project. An additional 1,540 jobs are expected to be created in 2015 by
the project beneficiaries. In particular, the project benefitted 220 SMEs in underserved regions (i.e.
30 percent of the beneficiaries): 254 loans for a total amount of USD102 million (USD437,000
average) were provided and helped generate 1,540 jobs and TL440 million additional sales. The
project thus helped SMEs mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis and the geopolitical
crisis in neighboring countries (for regions in the Southeast). In Southeastern provinces alone, the
project contributed to the peace dividend: 50 loans of a total amount of USD35 million
(USD780,000 average) were provided and helped generate 664 jobs and TL118 million additional
revenues (a third of the beneficiaries are exporting firms, whose activities were affected by the
crisis in the Middle Eastern countries). Furthermore, during visits to project beneficiaries, the ICR
team also confirmed that the project helped some SMEs finance the shift from trade towards
productive activities and investments to increase firm productivity.

Contrasted with poverty data at the sub-regional levels, the analysis of project disbursements
highlights the broad impact of the project across the country. The project disbursed USD86
million (i.e. 17 percent of the project amount) in the four regions whose share of the population
living below the USD5 PPP poverty line is greater than the national average.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project helped strengthen credit appraisal procedures among participating banks and PFIs and
ensure PFIs’ compliance with strict prudential standards (prudential ratios were monitored
throughout the project). In addition, the five banks and one leasing companies that participated in
the project experienced a significant learning phase, partly owing to their initial lack of familiarity
with similar World Bank operations. Even though the three PFIs previously participated in EFIL
operations, the project came with new challenges due to regional lending requirements, and the
smaller borrower and transaction size. Furthermore, all six participating financial intermediaries
have successfully demonstrated that medium and long-term lending is a viable business proposition,




11
  This is equivalent to USD286 million in additional revenues, using year-end exchange rates over the life
of the project. This is because the Turkish lira has significantly depreciated over the life of the project.


                                                     18
even in periods of economic downturn. Finally, PFIs built capacity to assess the environmental
risks and impacts of borrowing firms.

The project was also an attempt to revise the existing SME lending practices of financial
intermediaries, by requiring the use of cash-flow statements and financial covenants during the
credit appraisal process. These project requirements were expected to be more favorable to SMEs
than existing credit assessment methodologies. Over the life of the project, these project
requirements were however counter-effective in underserved regions, where the capability of firms
was lower than in developed regions.

The SME II project was Kalkinma Bank’s first experience with the World Bank as an on-lender.
The bank developed a web-based IT system for smooth collaboration with PFIs and for monitoring
purposes. In addition, Kalkinma Bank signed an agreement of USD80 million with the Council of
Europe Development Bank (CEB) to on-lend to SMEs via leasing companies. The bank capitalized
on its experience with the SME II project and developed “best practices” that it intends to apply to
future on-lending credit lines. These include the systemic undertaking of roadshows before project
approval to promote the credit line and ensure acceleration of project implementation; and the
flexible allocation of funds between PFIs and use of commitment fees to avoid implementation
delays and foster competition.

Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank were newcomers in World Bank operations, and experienced a
significant learning curve that lead to the signing of multiple financing agreements with the World
Bank but also other IFIs (see table below). Significantly, the SME II project was implemented while
both banks were increasing their own SME lending resources. The number of SMEs financed by
Ziraat Bank increased by 21 percent between 2010 and 2015. Vakif Bank’s SME loan portfolio
almost quintupled over the same period.

Table 5: Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank – SME Credit Line with IFIs (2010-2015)
                                              PROJECT
 BANK          YEAR           IFI                                        AMOUNT (millions)
                                          BENEFICIARY
 Vakif    2010               EIB      SMEs                         EUR 75
 Vakif    2010               EBRD     SMEs and Midcaps             USD 60
 Vakif    2010               EBRD     SMEs and Midcaps             USD 44
 Vakif    2011               EIB      SMEs                         EUR 50
 Ziraat   2011               EIF      Guarantee for loans to       €1.3bn disbursed to beneficiaries
          (implementation             enterprises of less than 9   by Ziraat, leveraging €300mln
          started in 2013)            employees                    partial guarantees
 Vakif    2012               EIB      SMEs and Midcaps             EUR 200
 Vakif    2012               EBRD     SMEs and Midcaps             EUR 20
 Ziraat   2012               EIB      SME direct lending           EUR 100
 Vakif    2013               EIB      Municipalities               EUR 100
 Vakif    2013               EIB      SMEs and Midcaps             EUR 50
 Vakif    2013               EBRD     SMEs and Midcaps             USD 80
 Vakif    2013               IBRD     SMEs and Midcaps             USD 67
 Vakif    2013               KfW      SMEs                         EUR 100
 Ziraat   2013               EIB      SMEs and Midcaps             EUR 100 (1st tranche)
 Ziraat   2013               IBRD     SME energy efficiency        USD 67
 Vakif    2014               EIB      SMEs and Midcaps             EUR 100
 Vakif    2014               EBRD     SMEs                         EUR 25
 Vakif    2014               EBRD     SMEs and Midcaps             EUR 75
 Ziraat   2014               EIB      SMEs and Midcaps             EUR 100 (2nd tranche)
 Ziraat   2014               KfW      Agriculture SMEs             EUR150
 Ziraat   2014               AfD      Agriculture SMEs             EUR100



                                                 19
                                               PROJECT
 BANK          YEAR            IFI                                       AMOUNT (millions)
                                            BENEFICIARY
 Ziraat   2014               CEB       SMEs (50% Ziraat            EUR100
                                       leasing, 50% Ziraat bank)
 Ziraat   2014               EIB       Financing of IPARD          EUR 100
                                       projects
 Ziraat   2015               EIB       SMEs and Midcaps            EUR200
 Ziraat   2015*              EIF       SMEs                        Ziraat Bank may also participate in
                                                                   the EIF COSME guarantee
                                                                   program, in which SME loans of
                                                                   up to €150,000 would be eligible.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

PFIs, through their participation in SME II loans, build infrastructure and capacity to work with
other IFIs, and have a greater awareness of available sources of funding. During the ICR mission,
all financial intermediaries insisted on their ability to leverage World Bank loan proceeds to obtain
additional funding from other IFIs or the market. In addition, they demonstrated great sensibility
to the need to improve their monitoring and evaluation systems.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Risks to the development outcomes relate to general country and financial sector risks and export
performance (for Southeaster regions mostly), in addition to the project-specific risks. Country
risks include the geopolitical context and turbulence in the financial markets. The International
Monetary Fund, Fitch and Moody’s warned against foreign funding dependence and foreign
exchange lending in the Turkish banking sector. Central bank data show that the short-term foreign
debt of banks (i.e., maturing in less than two years) more than doubled over the past four years to
USD94 billion, representing 40 percent of the total foreign debt of banks. These trends may affect
the provision of medium to long-term funding to SMEs. Nonperforming loans in the banking sector
have remained low despite the sharp depreciation of the Turkish lira since 2013, but could rise as
NPLs are a trailing indicator.

Project-specific risks are related to the future performance of Kalkinma Bank, Ziraat Bank and
Vakif Bank, the remaining PFIs, and the end-beneficiaries. The financial performance of financial
intermediaries has been monitored during supervision missions and, even during challenging times,
all of them complied with project requirements. With regards to demand, there is sustained demand
from SMEs for term finance. Kalkinma Bank was able to find additional borrowers for reflows
(USD 18 million), which is a sustainable element of this type of operation. This has become a
feature in the design of the follow-up SME III and Innovative Access to Finance projects. However,
going forward, credit line operations may become more difficult to implement and their
development outcome compromised, if project requirements naturally exclude the most financially
constrained firms.




                                                 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
The project design was highly relevant to strategic priorities and responsive to requests of the
Turkish government for fast assistance to the financial sector. The project’s risk assessment
framework was comprehensive and candid, and mitigation measures were appropriate. M&E
arrangements were well-written and very detailed. The Bank also developed reporting templates
that helped ensure the availability of quality data at the time of the ICR. Baseline and end-project
targets were provided for all indicators. Furthermore, to prevent implementation delays, the Bank
team accompanied Kalkinma Bank in several roadshows with potential PFIs before the approval of
the project. This was very effective in ensuring effectiveness just a month after signing despite
having three borrowers, including one on-lender.

The project design was largely based on the design and success of the predecessor SME I project.
The regional lending requirement for the SME II project was not project-specific, but set by the
Turkish authorities for all IFI credit lines. The financial covenants were determined by the Bank
team. The financial covenants which SMEs had to comply with were an obstacle in achieving the
regional lending target of 25 percent of disbursed loans on time. Given the lack of flexibility in the
minimum lending requirement in underserved regions and the lower capacity of SMEs in these
regions, it would have been preferable to set differentiated project requirements for SMEs operating
in developed and priority regions. A more prudent approach allowing more flexibility would have
helped satisfy the triple goal of: (i) providing long-term funding to finance their growth, (ii)
ensuring that beneficiaries implement good practices (environmental and fiduciary), and (iii)
reaching financially-constrained SMEs. Paradoxically, the most financially underserved SMEs
may have been excluded by the project design even before the local banks’ credit appraisal, due to
the Bank’s financial eligibility conditions.

Several improved features of the loan built, nevertheless, on the development outcomes achieved
in the SME I project. These include: (i) longer minimum maturity requirements‒ a minimum
maturity of 2 years compared with 1 year in SME I; (ii) full flexibility for banks to manage the FX
risk and on-lend in local currency, Euro or US dollar as needed, which ultimately lead to a higher
share of lira-denominated SME loans; (iii) diversity of financial intermediaries with the inclusion
of a leasing company, which helped reach smaller SMEs (the loan ticket size was smaller at
USD620,000 compared with USD820,000), and (iv) inclusion of three borrowers that could not
only substantially benefit from exposure to IFI procedures to raise funds with other IFIs, but also
ensure greater spatial diversification (with 67 provinces in SME II, 51 of which are in eastern and
central regions ‒ compared to 67 total provinces in SME I, and 44 in eastern and central regions ).

The Bank’s quality at entry is thus rated satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Project supervision was undertaken regularly and entailed field visits to borrowers, PFIs, and end-
beneficiaries. Aide-memoires and ISRs following implementation support missions were submitted
on time and provided updated information on economic developments in Turkey and their impact
on EFIL IV. All financial intermediaries were visited for this ICR and all praised the Bank team’s
effective collaboration and proactivity at times. The field-based presence of the TTL and the
fiduciary and safeguards team was well appreciated. In addition, there was full continuity of the
Bank team, as the TTL for the project was involved since the beginning of the project. ISRs were


                                                 21
comprehensive and ratings were in line with project performance. For future operations, it would
be advisable that ISRs provide the number of beneficiaries, amount disbursed and loan maturity
per borrower (in the component section) to have a better snapshot of individual borrowers’
performance.

The project restructuring was delayed until the end of the project, because both the Bank and
borrowers sought to achieve a very ambitious developmental outcome. In 2013, the Bank team
worked intensively with Ziraat Bank and Vakif Bank to identify all measures that could be taken
by both banks to accelerate disbursements in underserved regions, without undertaking a project
restructuring. These included: greater use of regional offices, lending in local currency and at fixed
rate for USD loans, as well the introduction of disbursement targets and incentives. When all
alternatives failed to produce the expected results, discussions on project restructuring, initiated in
May, 2014, materialized with a request from the two borrowers in August 2014. The Bank team
swiftly proceeded with project restructuring in September 2014, after already intensifying
implementation support for the project since April 2014.

A project midterm review was not undertaken. Such a review would have been helpful to address
implementation bottlenecks and undertake an earlier project restructuring, possibly being a missed
opportunity to assess the impact of removing financial covenants for SMEs operating in
underserved regions on the banks’ ability to achieve the 25 percent regional lending target.

The satisfactory Supervision rating is justified by the successful completion of a large-scale project
with three borrowers, the successful and rapid project restructuring and the considerable efforts
extended by the Bank team in addressing implementation bottlenecks throughout supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the above, the overall rating for Bank performance is Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government’s performance as a guarantor was Satisfactory. The Government demonstrated
strong ownership of the project and commitment to its objectives. In addition, the Government
supported the development of the leasing industry with the adoption in November 2012, of a
specific law that recognizes the activity and allows for new products, such as operational leasing,
and sale and lease back. Furthermore, in December 2011, the Government reduced the VAT for
machinery and equipment leases from 18 to 1 percent, which stimulated productive investments.

Although effective in enhancing the development outcomes of credit line operations in Turkey,
regional lending targets were applied across the board to all IFI operations, regardless of eligibility
criteria, financial instruments, and project requirements. In addition, regional lending requirements
were set at 25 percent in 2010 and 15 percent in 2012, although a thorough assessment of the
absorption capacity of underserved regions had not been undertaken for this project (taking into
account project requirements and economic conditions).


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                  22
The performance of Kalkinma Bank was highly satisfactory: the bank exceeded all project
development outcomes, and upgraded its internal system to comply with monitoring and reporting
requirements. Kalkinma Bank proceeded with a reallocation of funds between PFIs to accelerate
project implementation and complied with all project requirements. Finally, the bank disbursed
fully its credit line, two years ahead of schedule.

The performance of Ziraat Bank was moderately satisfactory. Ziraat Bank complied with
requirements throughout project implementation, and effectively staffed the PIU. Through prudent
FX management, the bank managed to disburse USD218 million to SMEs, based on USD200
million funding. Also, Ziraat Bank provided longer term funding compared to the other two
participating banks. Implementation delays for this project can be partly attributed to initial
shortcomings in ensuring compliance with fiduciary standards, and the lengthy reorganization
during which the bank disbursed only USD510,000 in 2012, after two years of outstanding
performance. Finally, Ziraat bank’s disbursement rate in underserved regions was the lowest among
the participating banks.

The performance of Vakif Bank was satisfactory. Vakif Bank fully complied with all requirements
throughout project implementation, and ensured good quality reporting. Vakif Bank undertook the
foreign exchange risk and disbursed the majority of loan proceeds to SMEs in local currency. This
flexibility enabled Vakif Bank to achieve the greatest spatial distribution of loans (with 45
provinces in total). In underserved regions, Vakif Bank provided loans to SMEs in 24 provinces
located in underserved regions, compared with a maximum of 17 provinces by other financial
intermediaries. Finally, the average loan amount in underserved regions was lower for Vakif Bank
(USD 329,000) compared to other intermediaries (that had an average disbursed amount greater
than USD 418,000).

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the above ratings of the government performance and of the implementing agencies, the
overall rating for borrower performance is Satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned
Key lessons for ongoing and future operations are:


The World Bank’s current prudential credit eligibility criteria need to be balanced against the
World Bank’s efforts to reach smaller, financially underserved firms. Credit eligibility criteria
(requirements on firm leverage and debt service coverage) had to be relaxed for SMEs operating in
underserved regions in order to avoid excluding firms that would otherwise not be eligible to
receive this longer-term financing. While the use of credit eligibility criteria is necessary to
prudentially exclude non-viable or over-indebted firms, current indicators (D/E ratio and DSCR)
are inadequate to appraise the financial health of firms in certain regions and countries due to the
unavailability of reliable financial statements. The current approach to identifying eligible firms
could be revised if the existing credit appraisal methodologies of PFIs is assessed to be satisfactory
and able to provide reliable information on firms’ financial capacity. Such an assessment could be
undertaken at project preparation, and lead to the removal of financial covenants. These financial
covenants, along with project’s fiduciary and environmental requirements, not only increase the
transaction costs for PFIs that, by consequence, find it more attractive to lend in larger amounts,
but also lead to the financing of only larger and more sophisticated firms.



                                                 23
Lending quotas are inefficient alone. The performance of the project would have been highly
satisfactory if lending targets had been removed. The desire to increase the project’s development
impact impeded swift project implementation, because of the disconnect between eligibility criteria
and disbursement targets in underserved regions. A more effective approach to lending in these
underserved regions needs to be considered, in order to address other financing constraints in these
regions beside unavailability of financing. Given the pre-existing commitment of PFIs
intermediating the SME II project to lend to SMEs and reach out to clients in underserved areas
with their own resources, the focus could shift to loan appraisal, collateral requirements and
increasing SME capacity. In addition, incentives to increase lending in underserved regions, or
traditionally less attractive/ riskier SMEs, could be considered (e.g. reducing reflows or co-
financing requirements for PFIs based on their outreach to more financially-constrained firms).
During the last year of the SME II project, but also the SME I project, participating financial
intermediaries struggled to meet geographical lending requirements, particularly due to a large
inflow of financing in the underserved regions by other IFIs. Given the strong demand for financing
in these areas, better disbursement performance in the future would require increasing their
absorption capacity.

The experience of the SME II project and other LOCs in Turkey suggest that a wholesale lending
model is preferable. An on-lending design increases the project’s overall impact. First, a wider
range of financial intermediaries increases the number and diversity of potential project
beneficiaries and may ultimately lead to funding of underserved firms. Second, the on-lending
design enables new financial intermediaries to gain experience in working with international
organizations, which will help them develop other sources of funding. Third, on-lending
encourages healthy competition and causes less market distortion than direct lending, as the
benefits are spread over a large share of the financial sector. Development banks are unable to reach
out to smaller beneficiaries due to their business model and are most effective in an on-lending
model. In the SME II project, a leasing company was introduced for the first time through Kalkinma
Bank’s credit line, which led to a higher share of investment financing compared to working capital
financing. Kalkinma Bank was also able to accelerate project implementation with the inclusion on
a new PFI. However, given the intermediation costs, interest rates were slightly higher than that of
other borrowers. On the other hand, direct lending would provide distinct advantages in crisis times
(quick disbursement and counter-cyclical funding) and when lending in niche markets with targeted
operations (where the private sector is absent or not able to fulfill the demand).

Implementation support missions and midterm reviews provide opportunities for strengthening
the project. In the SME II project, implementation support missions included regular visits to PFIs
and field visits to branches and beneficiaries. In addition to providing insights for overall
implementation bottlenecks, upfront training and capacity-building on fiduciary and environmental
safeguards procedures is highly beneficial for stakeholders. Results achieved in the SME II project
can be largely attributed to the intense supervision undertaken since 2013, including field visits.
Bank teams should take advantage of midterm reviews to assess performance holistically and set
expectations for end-project results. Project restructuring may be recommended before midterm
review based on borrowers’ commitments, changing economic conditions and prior experience
with similar operations. While project restructuring can be highly administrative and may put
undesired attention on a project, quick restructuring is advisable to avoid losing momentum in
project implementation and may yield higher-than-expected results.

Alignment with business practices increases the project’s attractiveness. In Turkey, commercial
practices have been assessed as acceptable with regard to World Bank procurement requirements.
As a result, project procurement requirements should be similar to existing practices of PFIs for
subloan preparation and record-keeping requirements. Given the recurrent complaints of PFIs and



                                                 24
subborrowers, a clear definition of working-capital expenditures and distinctions between
procurement and non-procurement working-capital expenditures is warranted. The Innovative
Access to Finance Project is already following this approach, which should be more widespread
among credit line operations.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                             25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                       millions)

            Total Baseline Cost             500.00            500.00           100%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs            500.00            500.00           100%
                                              0.00              0.00
IBRD Front-end Fee                            1.25              1.25           100%
   Total Financing Required                 500.00            500.00           100%




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of      Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing     (USD         (USD     Appraisal
                                                        millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                            0.00         0.00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                     500.00      500.00       100%
and Development




                                               26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                    Table A2.1: Results framework
                                                         Baseline End-                     Target
                                                                  project
 PDOs
 Number of SME beneficiaries                                 n/a          746              200
 Increase in employment in beneficiary SMEs                  n/a          6,918 jobs       >0
                                                                          TL2.1
 Increase in sales in beneficiary SMEs                       n/a                           >0
                                                                          billion*
 Share of finance provided to underserved regions            n/a          20%              17%**
 Quality of project financed portfolio ‒ NPL ratio           n/a          0.7%             7%
 Number of participating financial institutions              n/a          6                5
 Intermediate outcomes
  Volume of Bank support                                      n/a         104%***         100% of loan
                                                ****
  Borrower- Compliance with prudential norms                  compliant compliant         compliant
  PFI - Compliance with prudential norms****                  compliant compliant         compliant
Notes:
*TL 2.1 billion is equivalent to USD900 million using end-2014 exchange rate. However, for better accuracy,
we calculated the sales differential based on the annual exchange rate for each of the firm’s reported sales
before and after receiving the loan. We thus found that beneficiary SMEs increased their sales in equivalent
dollar amount by USD286 million over the life of the project. For example, if a firm had TL40mln in sales
prior to receiving the loan in end-2010 and increased its sales to TL55mln in end-2014, in U.S. dollar terms,
that would mean sales of USD26mln (using end-2010 exchange rate) and USD21mln (using end-2014 rate).
As a result, we would be reporting lower sales of USD5mln, as opposed to higher sales of TL15mln, only
due to exchange rate differentials. The return on investment hence cannot be calculated in U.S. dollar terms

**The original target was 25 percent. Following the restructuring for components 2 and 3, the target was
dropped to 17 percent.

*** Due to exchange rate differentials over the life of the project, a total of USD518.5 million was disbursed
by the borrowers to SME beneficiaries.
****
    The compliance of borrowers and PFIs to prudential norms was systematically monitored during
implementation. In addition, several additional indicators were reported in ISRs for each borrower. These
indicators were not part of the results framework and served to provide additional information on borrowers’
financial and lending performance.

                         Table A2.2: Additional information on borrowers
                                 Kalkinma Bank        Ziraat Bank        Vakif Bank
                                   Baseline    Most recent   Baseline   Most recent    Baseline    Most recent
 Return on Assets/Equity           2%          1.3%          3.1%       1.8%           1.98%       1.11%
 Portfolio at Risk – SME           10.8%       3.81%         2.3%       2%             6.1%        3.7%
 Outstanding SME Loan              316         813           2,358      16,567         2,800       11,263
 Portfolio (USD millions)
 # active loan accounts –SME       530         179           92,119     1,810,821      40,000      263,504
 Volume of Bank Support:           0           100           0          218.1          0           200.4
 Lines of Credit - SME


A detailed analysis of the results requires going beyond the original results framework and
reviewing individual subloan data through the lenses of the project’s objectives. We also
review lending patterns in underserved regions



                                                     27
                     Table A2.3: Breakdown of Subloans (Kalkinma Bank)
                                                                                        Number of
                                                              Amount
Sector                                                                                   Subloans
                                                          USD             (%)         Count     (%)
Agriculture, forestry and fishing                            910,317        0.9%            2     1.4%
Basic Metals                                               1,732,503        1.7%            3     2.0%
Construction                                              28,391,324      28.4%            36    24.3%
Electrical Equipment                                       1,075,207        1.1%            2     1.4%
Industrial Packaging                                         986,519        1.0%            1     0.7%
Marketing                                                  2,382,748        2.4%            1     0.7%
Mining and Quarrying                                       2,989,859        3.0%            4     2.7%
Pulp paper printings                                         557,605        0.6%            2     1.4%
Textile                                                   10,035,754      10.0%            15    10.1%
Tourism                                                    5,478,862        5.5%           10     6.8%
Transportation and Storage                                14,668,760      14.7%            17    11.5%
Wholesale and Retail Trade                                11,739,800      11.7%            22    14.9%
Wood products                                                192,772        0.2%            1     0.7%
Medical Equipment and Services                             4,964,953        5.0%            7     4.7%
Machinery and Equipment                                    6,266,589        6.3%           11     7.4%
Food products                                              5,895,569        5.9%           10     6.8%
Rubber and Plastic Products                                1,730,858        1.7%            4     2.7%
TOTAL                                                    100,000,000       100%           148    100%
Region                                                    USD             (%)         Count         (%)
Aegean Region                                              5,507,525        5.5%              9       6.1%
Black Sea Region                                           6,669,358        6.7%             14       9.5%
Central Anatolia Region                                   17,623,702      17.6%              26     17.6%
Eastern Anatolia Region                                    5,484,593        5.5%              9       6.1%
Marmara Region                                            47,700,087      47.7%              63     42.6%
Mediterranean Region                                       5,426,005        5.4%              7       4.7%
Southeastern Anatolia Region                              11,588,730      11.6%              20     13.5%
TOTAL                                                    100,000,000       100%             148      100%
Loan Size                                                 USD             (%)         Count         (%)
< USD250,000                                               5,208,858        5.2%          40        27.0%
USD250,000 - USD500,000                                   13,084,807      13.1%           37        25.0%
USD500,000 - USD1,000,000                                 28,968,318      29.0%           40        27.0%
USD1,000,000 - USD2,000,000                               30,224,344      30.2%           22        14.9%
> USD2,000,000                                            22,513,673      22.5%             9         6.1%
TOTAL                                                    100,000,000       100%          148         100%
Beneficiary size (# employees at application)             USD             (%)         Count         (%)
<10                                                       14,344,108      14.3%           30        20.3%
10-19                                                      7,307,963        7.3%          15        10.1%
20-49                                                     21,820,162      21.8%           37        25.0%
50-99                                                     24,937,104      24.9%           31        20.9%
100-249                                                   31,590,662      31.6%           35        23.6%
TOTAL                                                    100,000,000       100%          148         100%

               %                    Avg. loan              Avg.        Avg.        Avg. firm         Avg.
                         % of                   % Inv.
By PFI      amount                   amount              maturity   firm D/E        DSCR          firm size
                         loans                  Loans
           disbursed                  (USD)              (months)      ratio         ratio         (empl.)
 Banks        75%        72%         700,935     60%        37        61:39          2.55             71
Leasing       25%        28%        609,756     100%       41          57:43         3.02            37




                                                   28
                      Table A2.4: Breakdown of Subloans (Ziraat Bank)
                                                                              Number of
                                                         Amount
Sector                                                                         Subloans
                                                      USD          (%)      Count     (%)
Accomodation, tourism and food service                 6,548,899     3.0%         4     1.1%
Agriculture, forestry and fishing                      9,493,914     4.4%        18     5.1%
Basic Metals                                          18,867,873     8.7%        36    10.2%
Chemicals                                                600,000     0.3%         2     0.6%
Construction                                          16,611,423     7.6%        17     4.8%
Food products                                         12,601,892     5.8%        18     5.1%
furniture                                              1,520,000     0.7%         2     0.6%
Glass products                                           150,000     0.1%         1     0.3%
Information and communication                            100,000     0.0%         1     0.3%
Machinery and Equipment                               32,934,625   15.1%         52    14.8%
Medical Equipment and Services                         2,201,900     1.0%         4     1.1%
Mining and Quarrying                                   1,266,000     0.6%         3     0.9%
Rubber and Plastic Products                            9,026,135     4.1%        16     4.5%
Services                                               7,634,285     3.5%        12     3.4%
Textile                                               30,173,050   13.8%         33     9.4%
Transportation and Storage                             1,298,160     0.6%         4     1.1%
Wholesale and Retail Trade                            26,727,236   12.3%         57    16.2%
Wood products                                          1,245,701     0.6%         3     0.9%
Other manufacturing                                   33,998,445   15.6%         60    17.0%
Other                                                  5,079,231     2.3%         9     2.6%
TOTAL                                                218,078,771    100%        352    100%
Region                                                USD          (%)      Count     (%)
Aegean Region                                         26,728,954   12.3%        35      9.9%
Black Sea Region                                       8,448,748     3.9%       30      8.5%
Central Anatolia Region                               61,895,291   28.4%       102    29.0%
Eastern Anatolia Region                                8,233,299     3.8%       16      4.5%
Marmara Region                                        80,088,245   36.7%       125    35.5%
Mediterranean Region                                  20,702,857     9.5%       35      9.9%
Southeastern Anatolia Region                          11,981,377     5.5%         9     2.6%
TOTAL                                                218,078,771    100%       352     100%
Loan Size                                             USD          (%)      Count     (%)
< USD250,000                                          16,490,309     7.6%      110    31.3%
USD250,000 - USD500,000                               31,980,180   14.7%        92    26.1%
USD500,000 - USD1,000,000                             54,246,382   24.9%        83    23.6%
USD1,000,000 - USD2,000,000                           58,866,711   27.0%        47    13.4%
> USD2,000,000                                        56,495,189   25.9%        20      5.7%
TOTAL                                                218,078,771    100%       352     100%
Beneficiary size (# employees at application)         USD          (%)      Count     (%)
<10                                                   25,881,334   11.9%        54    15.3%
10-19                                                 20,812,907     9.5%       49    13.9%
20-49                                                 61,939,342   28.4%       118    33.5%
50-99                                                 52,178,833   23.9%        66    18.8%
100-249                                               57,266,355   26.3%        65    18.5%
TOTAL                                                218,078,771    100%       352     100%




                                                29
                      Table A2.5: Breakdown of Subloans (Vakif Bank)
                                                                              Number of
                                                         Amount
Sector                                                                         Subloans
                                                      USD          (%)      Count     (%)
Accommodation, tourism and food service                5,043,759     2.5%        10     2.2%
Agriculture, forestry and fishing                      5,437,390     2.7%         9     2.0%
Basic Metals                                          14,094,162     7.0%        26     5.7%
Chemicals                                             12,503,667     6.2%        25     5.5%
Construction                                          17,264,437     8.6%        48    10.5%
Food products                                          4,367,910     2.2%        15     3.3%
furniture                                                484,878     0.2%         3     0.7%
Glass products                                         5,076,041     2.5%         7     1.5%
Information and communication                            756,116     0.4%         4     0.9%
Machinery and Equipment                               36,555,546   18.2%         83    18.2%
Marketing                                              1,500,000     0.7%         1     0.2%
Medical Equipment and Services                         2,305,425     1.2%         4     0.9%
Mining and Quarrying                                   7,388,651     3.7%        14     3.1%
Pulp paper printings                                   2,606,622     1.3%         4     0.9%
Rubber and Plastic Products                            6,014,145     3.0%        13     2.9%
Textile                                               27,721,078   13.8%         53    11.6%
Transportation and Storage                             4,015,078     2.0%        13     2.9%
Water and waste management                               309,579     0.2%         2     0.4%
Wholesale and Retail Trade                            40,546,440   20.2%        112    24.6%
Wood products                                          4,765,569     2.4%         7     1.5%
Other                                                  1,693,974     0.8%         3     0.7%
TOTAL                                                200,450,465    100%        456    100%
Region                                                USD          (%)      Count     (%)
Aegean Region                                         83,724,342   41.8%       157    34.4%
Black Sea Region                                      13,204,883     6.6%       60    13.2%
Central Anatolia Region                               21,327,703   10.6%        53    11.6%
Eastern Anatolia Region                                3,297,473     1.6%       10      2.2%
Marmara Region                                        55,222,597   27.5%       122    26.8%
Mediterranean Region                                  12,123,767     6.0%       33      7.2%
Southeastern Anatolia Region                          11,549,700     5.8%       21      4.6%
TOTAL                                                200,450,465    100%       456     100%
Loan Size (total per borrower)                        USD          (%)      Count     (%)
< USD250,000                                          13,010,565     6.5%      117    25.7%
USD250,000 - USD500,000                               29,786,132   14.9%       100    21.9%
USD500,000 - USD1,000,000                             61,753,648   30.8%       129    28.3%
USD1,000,000 - USD2,000,000                           60,094,917   30.0%        79    17.3%
> USD2,000,000                                        35,805,203   17.9%        31      6.8%
TOTAL                                                200,450,465    100%       456     100%
Beneficiary size (# employees at application)         USD          (%)      Count     (%)
<10                                                    9,752,768     4.9%       63    13.8%
10-19                                                 17,980,726     9.0%       55    12.1%
20-49                                                 58,808,479   29.3%       164    36.0%
50-99                                                 51,259,606   25.6%       102    22.4%
100-249                                               62,648,886   31.3%        72    15.8%
TOTAL                                                200,450,465    100%       456     100%




                                                30
Given specific objectives of facilitating finance in priority regions we derive the following:
1. Underserved regions

         Table A2.6: list of underserved regions in the SME I and SME II projects
                                              Exports
  2012                   SME I   SME II                    Per capita gross value added (GVA) (TL)
                                              USD’000
 TRA11   Erzurum           x        x          45,859
 TRA12   Erzincan          x        x          3,082                        9,893
 TRA13   Bayburt           x        x            348
 TRA21   Ağrı              x        x          42,142
 TRA22   Kars              x        x           3,241
                                                                            6,708
 TRA23   Iğdır             x        x          84,662
 TRA24   Ardahan           x        x          1,881
 TRB11   Malatya           x        x         282,729
 TRB12   Elazığ            x        x          55,277
                                                                            9,759
 TRB13   Bingöl            x        x           7,350
 TRB14   Tunceli           x        x             -
 TRB21   Van               x        x          21,708
 TRB22   Muş               x        x          13,988
                                                                            5,894
 TRB23   Bitlis            x        x          2,528
 TRB24   Hakkari           x        x         362,993
 TRC11   Adıyaman          x        x         104,826
 TRC12   Gaziantep         x                 5,579,875                      8,303
 TRC13   Kilis             x        x          11,671
 TRC21   Diyarbakır        x        x         109,818
                                                                            7,179
 TRC22   Şanlıurfa         x        x         198,959
 TRC31   Mardin            x        x         948,394
 TRC32   Batman            x        x          83,513
                                                                            7,862
 TRC33   Şırnak            x        x        1,018,062
 TRC34   Siirt             x        x          6,226
 TR222   Çanakkale                  x         169,713               15,013* with Balýkesir
 TR522   Karaman                    x         278,689                11,935* with Konya
 TR631   Hatay             x                 2,039,566
 TR632   Kahramanmaraş     x        x         753,878                       9,900
 TR633   Osmaniye          x        x         117,871
 TR711   Kırıkkale                  x          5,603
 TR712   Aksaray                    x          62,720
 TR713   Niğde                      x          62,647                      11,882
 TR714   Nevşehir                   x          46,912
 TR715   Kırşehir                   x         203,331
 TR721   Kayseri           x                 1,582,410
 TR722   Sivas             x        x          93,295                      11,192
 TR723   Yozgat            x        x          9,611
 TR811   Zonguldak                  x         321,158
 TR812   Karabük                    x         167,424                      14,313
 TR813   Bartın                     x          14,116
 TR821   Kastamonu                  x          30,383
 TR822   Çankırı                    x          50,905                      11,057
 TR823   Sinop                      x          27,292
 TR831   Samsun            x        x         422,749
 TR832   Tokat             x        x          37,346
                                                                           11,338
 TR833   Çorum             x        x         166,369
 TR834   Amasya            x        x          65,015
 TR901   Trabzon           x        x        1,099,596
 TR902   Ordu              x        x         334,142
 TR903   Giresun           x        x         175,028
                                                                           11,154
 TR904   Rize              x        x         389,437
 TR905   Artvin            x        x          77,594
 TR906   Gümüshane         x        x            216



                                              31
 Table A2.7: Comparison between SME II and sector wide lending in underserved regions

           Provinces      Banking sector-wide (as of 12/31/2013)   % of total SME II loans
                               % of total loans by amount                by amount
       Aksaray                             0.2%                             0.2%
       Amasya                              0.2%                             0.1%
       Ardahan                             0.0%                             0.0%
       Artvin                              0.1%                             0.4%
       Batman                              0.1%                             0.3%
       Bitlis                              0.1%                             0.0%
       Çanakkale                           0.4%                             0.5%
       Çankırı                             0.1%                             0.5%
       Çorum                               0.4%                             1.3%
       Diyarbakır                          0.6%                             1.2%
       Elazığ                              0.3%                             0.9%
       Erzincan                            0.1%                             0.4%
       Erzurum                             0.4%                             0.3%
       Giresun                             0.2%                             0.1%
       Gümüşhane                           0.1%                             0.0%
       Iğdır                               0.1%                             0.4%
       Kahramanmaraş                       0.7%                             3.3%
       Karabük                             0.2%                             0.0%
       Karaman                             0.2%                             0.0%
       Kastamonu                           0.2%                             0.2%
       Kırşehir                            0.2%                             0.1%
       Malatya                             0.4%                             0.3%
       Mardin                              0.3%                             0.3%
       Muş                                 0.1%                             0.1%
       Nevşehir                            0.2%                             0.2%
       Niğde                               0.2%                             0.6%
       Ordu                                0.4%                             0.4%
       Osmaniye                            0.2%                             0.7%
       Rize                                0.3%                             0.0%
       Samsun                              1.0%                             2.2%
       Şanlıurfa                           0.5%                             0.3%
       Siirt                               0.1%                             0.0%
       Sinop                               0.1%                             0.0%
       Şırnak                              0.1%                             0.5%
       Sivas                               0.3%                             0.2%
       Tokat                               0.3%                             0.7%
       Trabzon                             0.6%                             1.3%
       Van                                 0.2%                             0.8%
       Yozgat                              0.2%                             0.6%
              Total                       10.3%                            19.7%

The disbursement rate in underserved regions was 10 percent sector-wide in 2013, compared to 20
percent for the SME II project. In addition, the SME II project provided greater access to finance
to 18 such provinces (highlighted), where the share of . These achievements are noteworthy.




                                               32
                     Table A2.8a: SME II lending by region (loan size)
                         %#                             D/E     DSC     Firm size    Firm size
                        loans                           ratio    R       before     after SME
                                               Loan
Average, for firms              Maturity                                 SME II       II loan
                                             amount
  operating in:                 (months)                                  loan      (employee
                                              (USD)
                                                                       (employee         s)
                                                                            s)
priority regions        27%        39        436,882    0.59    4.00      41           47
 < USD250,000           46%        37        118,822    0.58    5.9       25           29
 USD250,000 -
                        25%        38        366,376    0.60    2.8       40           42
  USD500,000
 USD500,000 -
                        17%        46        736,894    0.57    3.5       71           81
 USD1,000,000
USD1,000,000 -
                         7%        50       1,279,742   0.64    2.0       67           108
 USD2,000,000
> USD2,000,000           4%        34       2,719,478   0.56    2.0       80           70
  other regions         73%        51        691,526    0.59    4.01      63           72
 < USD250,000           21%        45        145,139    0.59    3.8       37           42
 USD250,000 -
                        24%        52        347,819    0.59    3.8       51           59
  USD500,000
 USD500,000 -
                        30%        53        692,890    0.59    5.2       69           81
 USD1,000,000
USD1,000,000 -
                        18%        51       1,327,400   0.59    3.1       89           100
 USD2,000,000
> USD2,000,000           7%        55       2,588,587   0.62    2.2       102          125

                  Table A2.8b: SME II lending by region (beneficiary) size)

                         %#                             D/E     DSC     Firm size    Firm size
                        loans                           ratio    R       before     after SME
                                               Loan
Average, for firms              Maturity                                 SME II       II loan
                                             amount
  operating in:                 (months)                                  loan      (employee
                                              (USD)
                                                                       (employee         s)
                                                                            s)
priority regions        27%        39        436,882    0.59    4.00       41          47
      <10               22%        38        262,072    0.51    2.7        3           15
      10-19             20%        40        334,358    0.62    3.2       13           14
      20-49             33%        39        385,611    0.61    3.3       33           35
      50-99             14%        36        708,317    0.63    2.6       69           66
    100-249             11%        46        831,454    0.59    2.8       156          186
  other regions         73%        51        691,526    0.59    4.01      63           72
      <10               13%        50        444,553    0.61    3.7        5            8
      10-19             10%        48        480,463    0.62    3.5       14           21
      20-49             33%        52        608,056    0.58    4.3       34           41
      50-99             23%        51        765,186    0.59    4.3       69           75
    100-249             21%        51        984,001    0.59    3.7       152          173




                                             33
Note: These trends were confirmed when using individual loan data for Kalkinma Bank which on-
lent to SMEs via banks and leasing companies. There were no significant differences between these
two types of financial intermediaries.

2. Maturity
More than a fifth of the total SME II amount consisted of loans with a maturity greater than six
years (primarily 7-year loans actually), as figure A2.1a shows. In underserved regions, the median
loan maturity was three years.

           Figure A2.1a: Loan distribution by maturity                   Figure A2.1b: Loan distribution by maturity
              (number and volumes) for all regions                      (number and volumes) in priority regions only
                 % total amount        % loans (number)                       % total amount        % loans (number)
           30%                                                          50%
           25%                                                          40%
           20%
                                                                        30%
 % total




                                                              % total
           15%
                                                                        20%
           10%
            5%                                                          10%
            0%                                                           0%
                    24   24˂≥36 36˂≥48 48˂≥60 60˂≥72   >72                      24   24˂≥36 36˂≥48 48˂≥60 60˂≥72   >72

                                  months                                                       months



3. Graduating SMEs
Fifteen firms graduated from SME status (i.e. the number of employees is greater than 250) after
receiving an SME II loan. Three of these firms operate in underserved regions. On average, firms
received loans of USD1 million with a 5-year maturity. Firms in priority regions received
investment loans, while those in other regions received working capital loans.




                                                             34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The sample for our analysis consisted of the 746 project beneficiaries, which received loans
between 2010 and 2015. Thanks to the quality of data provided by all five financial intermediaries,
the sample may be considered as representative of the SME population eligible for financing.

Since no data is available for 2015, the firms that received financing in 2015 cannot be evaluated,
however they can be used as a natural control group for firms that received financing between 2010
and 2014. The differential analysis of the changes within the two groups is helpful to more
confidently attribute outcomes achieved to the project, rather than overall economic developments
and trends. We excluded outliers in both groups for better comparability.

Preliminary evidence suggest from these comparisons suggest that, on average, SMEs that received
financing before 2015 (treatment group) outperformed SMEs that did not receive loans until 2015
(the control group), in terms of employment and sales. The median growth rate of employment for
both the treatment and control group was zero (i.e. no jobs were created). In contrast, the median
sales growth rate was higher in the control group: there is thus less clear evidence on the impact of
the loans in terms of sales.

Figure A3.1: average and median growth rates (before and after the loan), employment and
   sales for all SME beneficiaries based on the year that they received the SME II loan.
                   60%
                   50%
                   40%
                   30%
                   20%
                   10%
                    0%
                  -10%
                  -20%
                         Employment growth     Sales growth       Sales growth
                               (avg.)             (avg.)            (median)

                                 2010-2011       2012-2014        2015


Employment. As we run basic regressions (see below), we find some evidence that the loans had a
greater employment impact on smaller firms and firms that received loans before 2015 (i.e.
treatment group) and firms that received investment loans.

Sales. Unsurprisingly, the impact is greater for larger firms, in terms of the additional volumes of
sales generated. Evidence also suggest that firms that did not receive loans before 2015 (control
group) were larger, and thus had a larger absolute value of sales generated than firms that did
(treatment group). However, if we consider firm growth (i.e. percentage increase in sales) in
practice, firms in the treatment group (loans before 2015) grew more quickly than firms in the
control group. This preliminary finding is promising, as it suggests that SME II helped beneficiaries
reach their growth potential.

Underserved regions. With regards to priority regions, we find preliminary evidence that firms in
these regions grow more quickly in terms of sales than firms in other regions.




                                                 35
                       Table A3.1: Linear regressions for employment and sales
                                          Employment            Employment            Sales increase   Sales growth
                                         increase (log)            growth                 (log)        (percentage)
                                                                (percentage)
 Employment at application (log)           -0.51****              -0.11**                0.56***           0.03
 Loan amount (log)                            0.02                  -0.04                0.36***           -0.01
 Maturity                                       0                     0                  -0.01***       -0.005***
 Percentage of amount received               0.31*                    0                      0               0
 as investment loan
 Firm has received the loan                   -0.05                -0.52***              0.60***         -0.28**
 before 2015
 Firm is in a priority region                  0.19                  -0.11                    -0.29       0.21*
              Adjusted R-squared               0.18                   0.02                    0.28        0.01
          Number of observations	              281                    658                      396         518
***,**,** indicate significance at the 1,5 and 10 percent significance levels respectively.



Comparison SME I and SME II beneficiaries. For the purpose of the ICR, we also compare results
achieved in the SME I and SME II project. We use data on firms that had participated in the SME
I project which had been collected at the time of the impact evaluation. We thus have employment
growth and sales growth figures between 2008 and 2009 for firms that had taken an SME I loan in
2007 or 2008. Although 2007 data is not available (these are thus not perfect before and after figure),
we can use the available data as a proxy for performance after the program since the impact on
sales and employment was most probably not immediately felt on the firm just a year after
employment. For better comparability, we only compare the performance of SME I beneficiaries
to those of SME II beneficiaries that received a loan before 2014.

We find that the impact of the loans was larger for SME II beneficiaries than SME I beneficiaries.
We are not able to disaggregate these findings between developed and priority regions or based on
other criteria, due to the limited availability of data.

   Table A3.2: Comparison between SME I and SMEII in terms of employment and sales
                                          Employment            Employment            Sales increase   Sales growth
                                         increase (log)            growth                 (log)        (percentage)
                                                                (percentage)
 Employment at application (log)            0.51***               -0.21***               0.63***            0
 Firm received an SME I loan                -0.91***               -0.6***               -10.7***        -0.41**
             Adjusted R-squared               0.37                   0.06                  0.84            0.02
         Number of observations	               301                   542                   360             478
***,**,** indicate significance at the 1,5 and 10 percent significance levels respectively.




                                                           36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Halil Agah                Environmental Advisor                     CSSD
Furuzan Bilir             Operations Officer                       ECCU6
Vinod K. Goel             Consultant, FIand SME Specialist         GTCDR
Ulker Karamullaoglu       Program Assistant                        ECCU6
Isfandyar Zaman Khan      Program Leader                           ECCU5
Hala Khattar              Sr. Financial Officer (Treasury)         BCFBD
Hannah Koilpillai         Sr. Finance Officer                      LOAFC
Zeynep Lalik              Senior Financial Management Specialist   GGODR
Alper Ahmet Oguz          Senior Financial Sector Specialist       GFMDR
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora       Senior Operations Officer                ECSEG
Carlos Pinerua            Country Manager                          ECCHR TTL
Margaret Png              Senior Legal counsel                     LEGEC
Tatiana Segal             Senior Operations Officer                GTCDR
Ibrahim Sirer             Senior Procurement Specialist            GGODR
Supervision/ICR
Esra Arikan               Senior Environmental Specialist          GENDR
Ayse Seda Aroymak         Financial Management Specialist
Steen Byskov              Senior Financial Economist               GFMDR
Salih Bugra Erdurmus      Procurement Specialist                   GGODR
Selma Karaman             Program Assistant                        ECCU6
Ulker Karamullaoglu       Program Assistant                        ECCU6
Isfandyar Zaman Khan      Program Leader                           ECCU5
Aminata Ndiaye            ET Consultant                            GFMDR ICR primary author
Alper Ahmet Oguz          Senior Financial Sector Specialist       GFMDR TTL since 2012
Carlos Pinerua            Country Manager                          ECCHR TTL until 2011
Ilias Skamnelos           Senior Financial Sector Specialist       GFMDR ICR TTL

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY 10                                               30.93                   252.65
                           Total:                                           252.65
Supervision/ICR
FY 11                                               24.21                   127.87
FY 12                                               22.51                    86.75
FY 13                                               27.50                    71.05
FY 14                                               14.69                    36.00
FY 15                                               17.89                    65.76
                           Total:                                           387.43


                                              37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Kaklkinma Bank
Based on the studies and activities on wholesale banking between 2007-2009 within SELP-II
(Small Enterprise Loan Program) , which is a EU financed pre-accession technical assistance
program project, Kalkınma has espoused it as a new growing instrument. Before implementing
IBRD SME-II project Kalkınma have two wholesale banking program financed by its own sources
and one program financed by French Development Agency (AFD). After the signature of the loan
agreement with IBRD for SME-II project Kalkınma has signed two new wholesale banking loan
agreements with Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) in August 2010 and December 2013.

Intermediary financial institutions’ selection has been undertaken in two stages. The first is to
determine the limits according to the scoring from the quarterly financial data of Intermediary
financial institutions, prepared by the Financial Institutions Department of Kalkınma. The second
is the conformity assessment of PFI apex project executed by the Business Development
Department. Pre-defined six (6) potential financial institutions have been informed in order to open
up negotiations by top management of Kalkınma, by taking into consideration the requirement that
25% of the loan shall be used for financing priority (less developed) regions for project
development objectives and expectations of World Bank Officials as to include small and medium
size financial institutions in to the program.

In the framework of the above information and impressions from road shows, Board of Kalkınma
has approved to negotiate loan agreements with Denizbank ve Türkiye Garanti Bankası in the
amount of 35 million USD and 65 million USD respectively. The Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(SLAs) with the Financial Intermediaries were submitted to WB no-objection in September 2010
and SLAs have been signed on 29th September 2010. Since expected progress has not been
achieved and disbursement period for Garanti was over on 30 September 2011, upon the request of
Garanti for extension of final disbursement request date to 31st March 2012 and transfer of 25 m
USD loan limit to Garanti Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. (Garanti Leasing-GFK) negotiations with
Garanti Leasing has been accelerated. Amendment Agreement with Garanti and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in the amount of 25 m USD with GFK have been signed on 15th December 2011 and
26th December 2011 respectively and WB no-objection has been received for both agreements.

Project Implementation Unit (PIU): the PIU is located in the Business Development Department
of Kalkınma. The overall administrative coordination of the SME II, and general information
management, is the responsibility of the Kalkınma’s PIU.

During the implementation period several visits to PFIs have been held by the WB and Kalkınma.
After completion of the disbursements during WB mission some of the sub-borrower project sites
have been visited. Furthermore Kalkinma has visited some of the sub-project sites individually
during the post review stage.

SME-II Implementation Results Regarding PDOs

       GARANTI has completed its WB SME-II Loan in the amount of 40 million USD (100%),
        54 SMEs have been financed (6 working capital, 49 investment -1 both), loan request
        period extension to 31 March 2012 has been applied 12,41 million USD in Priority Regions
        (31%)
       DENIZBANK has completed the utilization of WB SME-II loan in the amount of 35
        million USD (42%), 39 SMEs have been financed (32 working capital, 7 investment) -loan



                                                40
         request period extension to 31 July 2012 has been applied. 7.6 million USD sub-loans are
         from Priority regions (21,7%)
        GARANTI LEASING has utilized 25 m USD, 41 SMEs have been financed (all
         investment), 7.1 million m USD in Priority Regions (28.4%)

        PFI NAME              NUMBER       EMPLOYMENT           EMPLOYMENT           INCREASE       INCREASE
                              OF SMEs       PRESERVED             CREATED             IN SALES           IN
                                 (*)                                                     (%)         EXPORT
                                                                                                        (%)
 GARANTI BANK                54          3,781                45                   25               50
 DENIZBANK                   39          3,365                188                  21               11
 GARANTI LEASING             41          1,530                1,031                40               159
 TOTAL                       134         8,676                1,264
 (*) The comparison has been made between 2012 figures and 2010 or 2011 figures by paying attention rationality.

Conclusion and Lessons Learned

With the completion of the project implementation 134 SME projects from several different sectors
have been financed and the considerable amount of increase in employment, export and sales
revenues have been achieved when comparing the figures of 2010, 2011 and 2012.

In conclusion although there are strict reporting requirements and financial covenant, the IBRD
SME-II project is beneficial for all the stakeholders and it is instrumental for Türkiye Kalkınma
Bankası for capacity building in wholesale banking activities.

It has provided an opportunity of cash flow based loan implementation to be executed by the
intermediary financial institutions. Although implementation has some difficulties regarding
financial covenant, procurement and environmental policy of WB group the intermediary financial
institutions were comfortable with the long-term funding facility and prestigious implementation
opportunity of IBRD financed project execution.

For the future project implementation a training including procurement procedures, environmental
procedures and financial evaluation of the final beneficiaries should be better delivered for
intermediary financial institutions staff with the accompany of the IBRD and PIU staff right after
the loan agreements signed.

Additional comments received on the Draft ICR
Kalkınma disbursed fully its credit line two years ahead of schedule and the performance of
Kalkınma has been evaluated as highly satisfactory by IBRD.

Based on the studies and activities on wholesale banking between 2007-2009 within SELP-II
(Small Enterprise Loan Program), which is an EU-financed pre-accession technical assistance
program project, Kalkınma has espoused it as a new growing instrument. Before implementing
IBRD SME-II project, Kalkınma has two wholesale banking programs financed by its own sources
and one program financed by French Development Agency (AFD). After the signature of the loan
agreement with IBRD for SME-II project, Kalkınma has signed two new wholesale banking loan
agreements with Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) in August 2010 and December 2013.

Within the context of its completed and ongoing wholesale banking activities, Kalkınma provided
over 800 SMEs with financing, and generated additional employment opportunities to more than
6,300 people through intermediary financial institutions. And the share of wholesale banking loans
in Kalkınma’s total loans reached 11% by the end of 2014.




                                                       41
Thanks to the experience acquired from previous SME projects and IBRD SME-II project,
Kalkınma continues to carry out new SME projects through its own sources as well as ones
provided by international financial institutions. Moreover, Kalkınma is ready to take part, in the
future, in all kinds of SME projects planned to be carried out over the county or on the regional
basis.


ZiraatBank
SME-2 project has been successfully completed by Ziraat Bankası as of 31.03.2015 which was the
Project deadline. All the related Marketing and Analysis Departments as well as Funding
Management Department carried out the implementation of the Project in cooperation with each
other.

During the implementation period of five years (2010-2015), Ziraat Bankası experienced
difficulties as well as benefiting from the advantages of the project. The most important advantages
of the credit line was its grace period, long maturity and reasonable cost that provided both Ziraat
Bankası and final beneficiary SMEs with the long term financing and investment opportunities.
Besides, brand value of the World Bank combined with the well-established Ziraat Bankası name
made the loans under the project more attractive for SMEs. The cooperation contributed to the
perception of both the World Bank and Ziraat Bankası as long term and reliable finance providers
for the SMEs.

Comments & Recommendations

We would recommend the World Bank to review its financial eligibility criteria and decrease or
remove the DSCR and Debt to Equity Ratio requirements for prospective projects focusing on
SMEs and micro enterprises market and rely on the intermediary institution’s, i.e. Ziraat Bankası’s
own assessment system. In other words, we believe that it would be more convenient if
implementing agency applies its own financial eligibility procedure based on its own experience
and assessment criteria when assessing a firm’s financial risk and it would provide a much smoother
implementation of the project. As the analysis procedures of the banks are strict enough to show a
very low NPL ratio and is in line with the World Bank’s objectives, we would highly recommend
that for the projects that will be implemented in the future.

In addition, we think that easing of the documentation requirements of World Bank would have a
big positive impact on the implementation of the projects. Rigid documentation and procurement
rules of the World Bank cause the occurrence of a negative perception towards World Bank projects
not only by our clients but also by the marketing people.

According to the World Bank rules, our branches are obliged to fill the table for Statement of
Expenditures invoice by invoice when utilizing a SME-2 loan. This seems normal in the first place.
However, when it comes to practice, it proves to be very inefficient and sometimes unnecessary.
For instance, when one of our branch makes a SME-2 loan to a client, that particular branch fills
the SOE table with invoices that are subject to the loan, but, does not precisely match the total
invoice amount with total loan utilization amount. In other words, sometimes our branches add
more invoices to the SOE table than necessary. This shouldn’t be a problem in our point of view
given that total invoice amount is not below total utilization amount. However, during World Bank
audits, World Bank auditors pay so much attention to these sort of details, this makes our customers
very sensitive when they are offered a new World Bank loan and even leads to an unwillingness to
take World Bank loans. Although World Bank procurement guidelines cannot be changed, we
recommend World Bank to adapt its documentation requirements for these kind of credit lines in
order not to weaken marketing efforts of implementing agencies.


                                                42
Vakif Bank
1. Assessment of the Project’s Objective, Implementation, and Operational Experience

   1.1 Project’s Objective

The objective of the project was to strengthen the access of small and medium enterprises to
medium term finance. By supplying finance to SMEs in Turkey, the project aimed to help raise the
sales and export volumes of these SMEs and reduce the credit gap between SMEs and large firms.

Evaluation of the results indicated that objectives of the facility were met by Vakifbank.

   1.2 Project’s Implementation

The marketing of the facility was carried out by SME, Commercial and Corporate Marketing
Departments jointly. SME Product Development Department also supported them in this respect.
The implementation progressed very well both inside and outside of the underserved regions,
however especially the success of the project inside of the underserved regions is highly related to
the restructuring made in the midst of it, which should be particularly mentioned. In September
2014, a significant restructuring was made in the project which reduced the disbursement portion
of underserved regions from %25 to %15 by the approval of Turkish Treasury. This restructuring
also exempted the companies in the underserved regions from the Debt to Equity and Debt Service
Coverage Ratio requirements.

The data about the implementation of the project before and after the restructuring clearly indicate
that the approach tried after the restructuring, especially exemption from some ratio requirements
is much more appropriate for structures and preferences of the companies in the underserved
regions. By the means of these vital restructuring, Vakıfbank finalized this esteemed World Bank
facility on 30 March 2015. Thus, we would like to propose World Bank to remove or ease restricted
conditions particularly in the underserved regions for the further projects.

   1.3 Operational Experience

The implementation of the facility was performed by Vakifbank PIU. The PIU was consisted of the
following departments;

         International Banking Department
         SME Product Development Department
         SME and Commercial Marketing Departments
         Central Operation Department
         Financial Analysis Department

International Banking Department was responsible for facilitating coordination with World Bank,
as well as disbursements, reporting to World Bank and Turkish Treasury under the project. SME
Product Development Department was in charge of developing the product for the clients in
accordance with the eligibility criteria of the facility. They also coordinated the marketing of the
facility. SME, Commercial and Corporate Marketing Departments were responsible for pricing for
the loan applications.

 Central Operation Department was in charge of receiving the loan applications and granting prior
approvals considering the number of employees and turnover of the firm. Financial Analysis
(Appraisal) Department was responsible for calculating the Debt Service Coverage Ratio and Debt
to Equity Ratio of the clients having prior approval.


                                                43
2. Assessment of the Outcome of the Project against the Agreed Objectives

Under the facility Vakifbank financed 454 loans with the total amount of USD 200.03 Million. The
average loan size was USD 440.600. The loans were made according to the criteria set up in the
project document with the following details:

        The total disbursement amount was USD 200.03 Million.
        The number of SMEs financed by World Bank SME II project was 334.
        The average maturity of the portfolio was 43.7 months.
        Loans were made in TL, USD and EUR.
        Loans were given in 7 geographic regions and 48 provinces in Turkey.
        %19 of the loan portfolio was disbursed in underserved regions which was well above
         the %15 disbursement requirement for those regions.
        The NPL ratio of the project is %0.2.

The above results indicate that the overall objectives of the project were achieved. Distribution of
loans according to sector, loan size and region is presented Table 1, 2 and 3 below.

3. Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the implementation of the project

The implementation of this esteemed World Bank project suggest that needs and characteristics of
the clients should be appraised very well in the structuring phase of a product. In this respect, the
restructuring made in September 2014 allowed us to reach much more eligible customers in the
underserved regions when they were exempted from the financial ratio requirements of DSCR and
D/E.

4. Evaluation of the performance of World Bank during the implementation of the project

The World Bank’s performance during the implementation was very satisfactory. During the
implementation, we had a close relationship with World Bank team in Ankara, Washington and
Zagrep. The issues relating the implementation of the project were smoothly resolved thanks to the
World Bank Team’s valuable support.

The only point we would like to raise is related to eligibility criteria of the project. The financial
ratio requirements (DSCR and D/E) were binding for us in terms of reaching eligible customers
especially in the underserved regions. More flexibility in those requirements would speed up the
implementation of the project and the project would be finalized without the need of any
restructuring.

We would also like to note that the 25% disbursement requirement to the underserved regions set
by Turkish Treasury was also challenging due to the lack of enough eligible clients for the project
in those regions. Vakifbank does not have a negative bias against the underserved regions. Quite
the contrary, we are very active in those regions with our various products. However, restrictive
conditions such as financial ratio requirements or target of disbursement amounts create difficulties
in terms of meeting the needs of the clients. Thus, we would kindly propose you to remove or ease
the restrictive conditions in those regions for the further projects.

We would like to emphasize that we will also be honored to collaborate with the World Bank in
the future. We are of the opinion that, if our recommendations are taken into consideration in the
further projects we could be much more successful in the implementation of the facilities.

    



                                                 44
    Table 1
    Sector                                      Number Percentage
       MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY                    200     44,1%
            WHOLESALE TRADE                      137     30,2%
          CONSTRUCTION SECTOR                     37     8,1%
     OTHER SOCIAL AND INDIVIDUAL                  23      5,1%
                 HEALTH                           15      3,3%
             COMMUNICATION                        13     2,9%
                  MINING                          10      2,2%
              AGRICULTURE                         8      1,8%
                 TOURISM                          5      1,1%
            FISHING INDUSTRY                      1      0,2%
               REAL ESTATE                        2      0,4%
               ELECTRICITY                        2      0,4%
       FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION                    1      0,2%

    Table 2
    Loan Amount(USD)                            Number Percentage     Amount                Percentage
                 0-100.000                        86      19%      4.925.214 USD                2%
              100.000-250.000                    104      23%     17.806.677 USD                9%
              250.000-500.000                    127      28%     46.168.577 USD               23%
             500.000-1.000.000                    95      21%     69.668.490 USD               35%
            1.000.000-3.500.000                   42       9%     61.468.442 USD               31%

    Table 3
    Geographic Regions                          Number Percentage     Amount                Percentage
             AEGEAN REGION                       156      34%     83.667.413 USD               42%
     SOUTHEAST ANATOLIAN REGION                   18       4%     10.746.466 USD                5%
            MARMARA REGION                       126      28%     56.159.110 USD               28%
            BLACK SEA REGION                      69      15%     15.052.503 USD                8%
       CENTRAL ANATOLIA REGION                    42       9%     18.982.076 USD                9%
        MEDITERRANEAN REGION                      33       7%     12.127.583 USD                6%
       EASTERN ANATOLIA REGION                    10       2%      3.302.252 USD                2%


Additional comments received on the Draft ICR
We strongly believe that, success of the project, is highly related to the restructuring made in the
midst of it, which should be particularly mentioned. In september 2014, a significant restructuring
was made in the project which reduced the portion of underservedr egion from 25% to 15% by the
apporval of Turskih Treasury. This restructuring also exempted the companies in the underserved
regions from the Deb to Equity and Debt Service Coverage Ratio requriements.

The data about the implementation of the project before and after the restructuring clearly indicate
that the approach tried after the restructuring, especially exemption from some ratio requirments is
much more appropriate for structures and preferences of the companies in the underserved regions.
By the means of this vital restructuring, VakifBank finalized this esteemed world Bank facility on
30 March 2015. Thus we would like to propose World Bank remove, or ease, restricted conditions
particularly in the underserved regions for further projects.




                                                45
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document, Implementation Completion Report and IEG ICR
    review and available portfolio data: Access to Finance for SME Project (SME I)
2. Second Access to Finance for SME Project (SME II):
                   i. Project Appraisal Document
                  ii. Concept note review meeting: Paper, Decision, comments
                iii. ROC meeting minutes
                 iv. Loan agreements, Guarantee agreement and Supplemental Letters
                  v. Operational Manual
                 vi. Restructuring papers – and amended agreements
                vii. Project Aide memoires, ISRs, Financial Management and
                      Procurement Reports
   3. Third Access to Finance for SME Project (SME III): Project Appraisal Document
   4. Turkey: EFIL and SME Credit Line Projects- An Assessment of Outcomes (2011)
   5. Turkey: Improving Conditions for SME Growth - Finance and Innovation (2011)
   6. Turkey’s Transitions: Integration, Inclusion, Institutions Flagship Report (2014)
  7. Country Partnership strategies




                                         47
MAP




      48
