Docu:nt of
The World Bank
FOM OMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10245-MLI Type2s  (FCR)                       RepoNtN. 10245
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X3170C9 / T9 069/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
POWER/WATER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1282-MLI)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (1982)
Currency Unit         =    Malian Franc (MF)
US$1.00               =    MF 500
MF 1                  -    US$0.0020
MF 1000               -    US$2.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE       -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DHE        -    Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie
EDM        -    Energie du Mali
FAC        -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
OEREN    -    Office pour l'Exploitation des Ressources Hydraulique du Haut Niger
OPEC       -    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR        -    Project Completion Report
PPF        -    Project Preparation Facility
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
alice Oi Di,csv.G.W41
OpmatkNw Ivawiutmw
December 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mali
Power/Water Project
(Credit 1282-MLI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mali - Power/Water Project (Credit 1282-MLI)" prepared by
the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bnk authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PCredit 12f2-ae
PR0OJE=KCOMpOIyM REPORT
Tablg of Cgntents
Preface      ........................................... .......................i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity.                                                       1
2. Background .I
3.    roLect OQectives and Description
Project Objectives.                                                 2
Project Description.                                                2
Changes in Project Scope.                                           3
4.  Project Desip and Organization.                                        3
5..   Ect mementati
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up.                          4
Implementation Schedule.                                            4
Procurement                        .5
Disbursement.                                                       5
Project Cost.                                                       5
6.   EetReus
Attainment of Project Objectives.                                   5
impact.                                                             7
7. Project Sustainability.                                                 7
8. Bank Perfbrmance.                                                       8
9. Borrower Performance.                                                   9
10. Performance by Consultants .10
11. Project Documentation and Data .10
PART n: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Preface                                                                    11
Project Data .12
Total Acta Disbursements .12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I.         ,      1rtM11w1iWo     .....................................                                          13
II. Project Preparation and Appraisal
Project Origin and preparation  .......................                                               15
Project Objectives   ..............................                                                  16
Project Description  ..............................                                                  16
m.  EWJt Cos
Project Effectiveness and Start-Up   ....................                                            17
Project Cost  ...........                       .......................                              17
Network Yield  ................................                                                    19
Actual and Estimated Costs, CCCE  Agreement  ....                               ........             20
Actual and Estimated Costs of the Credit  ................                                           21
Disbursements .................................                                                      22
Change in the scope of the Project  ....................                                             23
Execution Schedule ..............................                                                    24
Contracting ...................................                                                      25
IV           ject Execution
Institutional Technical Assistance  .....................                                            25
Improved Management
Budget  ....................................                                                      26
Planning ...................................                                                      27
Personnel (recruitment, training)  ....................                                           27
Customer management activity   .....................                                              28
Accounting system, internal audit, computers  ....                           ........             29
Material Components
Dar Salam  Plant  ..............................                                                  30
Mopti-Severe Plant  .............                              ..............                     30
Reinforcement and extension of
Bamako elect distribution (IDA) ...................                                            31
Bamako water component  ........................                                                  31
Civil engineering component   ......................                                              34
Technical Study components .......................                                                35
General Studies component  .......................                                                36
V.      Institutimal Reform           ..............................37
VI. Qpeating Results .38
VII.   Financial Results  ................................                                                      39
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits .41
2. Project Timetable .41
3. Credit Disbursements .42
4. Project Costs and Financing .43
5. Status of Covenants .44
6. Use of Bank Resources .46



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
POWER/WATER PROJECT
(Credit 1282-MLI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the PowerA. ater Project in the
Republic of Mali, for which Credit 1282-MLI in the amount of SDR 20.4 million (US $24 million)
was approved on July 6,1982. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1988 and the last
disbursement took place by June 30, 1989 when a remaining balance of SDR 6,063 was canceled.
The Credit, which represented the first Bank operation in the two sectors, was extended to the
Government of the Republic of Mali for on-lending to Energie du Mali (EDM), a parastatal water
and power utility which has been operating since 1961 under a thirty year concession covering the
production and distribution of power and water over most of the country.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division of the Sahelian Department, Africa Regional Office, and are based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank, the Borrower and the Executing Agency, other data and information from Bank files and
discussions with Bank staff who had been involved in project implementation and supervision. No
mission from the Bank visited the country for the purpose of preparing the PCR. Part II was
prepared by EDM as a full completion report in compliance with a Development Credit Agreement
covenant. It is a comprehensive document containing much technical detail that this PCR has omitted
for reasons of brevity, and does not in any way contradict any of its more significant findings. It is
reproduced, unedited, and in its entirety.
Parts I and Im were sent to the Borrower and to the Co-financiers on April 1, 1991, no
reply has been received yet.



- ii -
PROJECT CQMPLETION REPOR
REPUBLIC OF MALI
POWER AND WATER/ PROJEC
(Credit 1282-MLI)
EVALUAQON SUMMARY
Objectives
1.     The project had multiple and diverse objectives. In broad terms, it was designed to extend
both power and water supplies, to rehabilitate and strengthen the parastatal utility responsible under
a concession arrangement with the Government to produce and distribute power and water over most
of the country, to recover costs, to train Malians in management and operational skills and to
economize on imported fuels. More specifically, it would assist the utility to prepare future works
to be carried out as a long term program of rehabilitation and expansion, help to alleviate the utility's
managerial and operational constraints and ensure extended, more cost effective and reliable services
primarily to urban, but also to some rural inhabitants (paragraph 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.     There were delays in signing the Credit and Project Agreements because of a temporary
depletion in IDA funds and the originally planned date for Effectiveness had to be postponed because
of delays in the fulfillment of conditions precedent to disbursement by one of the Cofinanciers.
Altogether, star-up of the project was delayed by some nine months through no fault of the
beneficiaries (paragraph 5.01).
3.   The project was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1987, but the Closing
Date had to be postponed and the project was eventually completed and the Credit closed a year later.
There were numerous causes; delays in recruitment of individual experts who were to make up the
technical assistance team; dilatoriness on the part of the Government in approving terms of reference
for various studies and in allocating land for those project components that required sites; retendering
of the conventional thermal station that replaced the biomass generating plant following the receipt
of unresponsive and unacceptable bids and lengthy delays in the completion of extensions to the
Bamako water supply distribution system following a suspension of disbursements by the OPEC
Fund. For most of these delays there was little the Bank could have done beyond exhortation and
persuasion to expedite matters, other than, perhaps allocate additional staff resources to a more
intensive level of supervision than the size and nature of the project warranted or the expectation of
results deserved (paragraph 5.02).
4.      Procurement of the physical components of the project proceeded satisfactorily once the
various studies had been finalized. And disbursement, although falling far behind the estimates at
appraisal, was completed by the revised Closing Date, other than for a minor sum which was
canceled. In aggregate, project cost remained very much in line with appraisal estimates. Only
relatively minor reallocations had to be made between categories (paragraphs 5.03-5.05).



- iii -
5.      The physical components of the project, although somewhat delayed, were successfully
completed, the only major alteration in scope being the substitution of a conventional thermal plant
for a biomass plant. The quality and reliability of both the electricity and water supplies were
improved by the additions to the systems, and by the work of rehabilitation and extension and many
new customers were able to be accommodated. However, few significant changes took place in the
organizational structure of the sectors, and the low level of managerial autonomy and initiative
prevailing in Energie du Mali (EDM) failed to improve significantly, Government interference
remaining a negative factor. No consensus was achieved on the organization of the power sector, and
there was persistent violation by Government of important financial covenants, especially those
covenants relating to the arrears owed by the public sector to EDM. As a result, EDM's financial
situation remained extremely difficult. There were some improvements relating to the separation of
water and electricity accounts, the collection of accounts receivable from the private sector, the
introduction of computerization and auditing. Tariffs were raised on a number of occasions and in
overall magnitude were in line with the recommendations of the consultants, but no restructuring of
tariffs took place. Internal cash genera.. *n remained below covenanted levels (paragraphs 6.06 to
6.09).
S.     There were shortcomings in the performance of the technical assistance team, some of its
members being less effective than others. The team failed to achieve cohesiveness and the effort
lacked leadership. In sum, a costly technical assistance program failed to produce commensurate
results. Early problems associated with the training component were partly resolved, but EDM's
management remained less than fully convinced of its value. Problems were encountered in the
provision and retention of counterparts. For the most part, the consultants retained for studies,
detailed engineering and supervision of construction performed satisfactorily, displayed good expertise
and exercised sound judgement, although there were a few whose performances were deemed to be
less than satisfactory (paragraph 6.1 1).
6.    The extent to which the results were judged to be below planned achievement is reflected in
the degree to which technical assistance had to be perpetuated and redirected and training intensified,
institutional objectives replicated and critically important financial covenants repeated in the follow-up
and other related projects.
sustainability
7.     The institutional and infrastructural weaknesses which permeated project arrangements and
the deteriorating economic and financial environment undermined prospects for sustainability. On
balance, the physical components are capable of being sustained and will be, provided EDM retains
its capacity for maintenance, but the institutional, organizational and policy achievements ner  ,
which were minimal, are not. However, since what little progress was made is being strengthened
and elaborated by further project activity, in the longer haul sustainability remains a live possibility
(paragraphs 7.01 and 7.02).
Findings and Lessons
S.     Although the physical components of the project have been successfully completed and are
providing facilities important for the quality of life of many Malians and for the future development
of the two sectors, the institutional objectives were not achieved during the life of the project, and
the technical assistance and training components produced results not commensurate with the cost and



- iv -
effort put into them. The experience strongly suggests the need to plan technical assistance for
institutional development within the context of a long term, country specific institutional development
strategy rather than to expect dramatic improvements to be accomplished through individual projects
of relatively short duration. Changing a corporate structure, as was attempted in this project, requires
a long term investment in patience and intensive supervision. A lack of commitment on the part of
the recipient can vitiate the impact of a techrnical assistance program regardless of its size, cost and
the care with which it may have been structured. The institutional objectives were eventually
subsumed in other projects, especially a Public Enterprise Adjustment project and that was for the
good, since it was initially somewhat unrealistic to expect a wholesale redressing of the institutional
framework of the sector in isolation from improvements in the Government's overall policy towards
public enterprises. The measures to be taken to improve the financial performance of the utility were
appropriate and in part successful, but those to be taken to remedy its financial situation were
dependent to an overwhelming extent on the fiscal cooperation of the GGvernment at a time when its
own financial situation was in a parlous state and which, as a result, was not forthcoming. The state
of the economy is a factor which must be taken into consideration when attempting to rehabilitate a
sector or a major public enterprise (paragraphs 8 and 9).



MALI
POWERWATER PROECT
(Credit 1282-MLI)
ECIT CQMPL        ION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   sEliet Ioll
Name                  Power/Water Project
Credit Number         1282-MLI
RVP Unit              Africa Region
Country               Mali
Sector                Power / Water
2. Bukgd
2.01       The power sector in Mali at the time of appraisal of the project was typical of most
power sectors in Sub-Saharan Africa. Installed capacity and consumption were extremely low,
consumers were mainly households and the public sector since industrial and commercial use was
limited, power utilities were small, power losses high, supplies unreliable and much demand unmet.
Expenditures on distribution facilities and maintenance were insufficient, tariffs were too low to
generate adequate revenue for basic operations, collection rates were low and arrears excessive. At
the time of a Bank basic needs mission in 1978, total installed generating capacity was 35MW with
annual generation of 135 GWh. Other than for a 5MW hydro electric plant at Sotuba and a small 500
KW hydro plant at Felou all generation was diesel electric. Consumption was among the lowest in
the world at 23KWh per capita per annum. Only 30% of the urban population had access to electric
power and less than 5% of the whole population. A public supply existed only in Bamako, the capital,
and eleven secondary urban centers, ten of which were isolated supply systems with their own small
generating plants. Bamako was supplied by the 5MW Sotuba plant and a 14.7 MW diesel electric
plant at Dar-Salam. Distribution covered only a fraction of the city's area. Peak demand in Bamako
had grown in the 1970s by an annual average of 12%, well above existing generating capacity unt!l
a 48MW hydroelectric power plant built at Selingue commenced producing power in 1981,
substituing for diesel electric generation in Bamako and southern Mali, reducing oil imports and
saving foreign exenange.
2.02       The water supply sector suffered from very much the same catalogue of deficiencies as
the power sector, water supply systems adequately serving only 20% of the urban population. There
was no sewage disposal system and the limited drainage system in Bamako was clogged through lack
of maintenance. An estimated 25% of the rural population were served by boreholes and water wells,
although many rural water supply projects were, and still are, being implemented with foreign aid.
2.03       Three institutions had responsibilities in the power and water sectors; Energie du Mali
(EDM), the project implementing agency, a parastatal water and power utility which has been
operating since 1961 under a 30 year concession covering the production and distribution of power
and water over most of the country; the Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy (DHE) which, in
theory, was responsible for the planning and implementation of water supply projects and large power
schemes but which, in fact, did limited planning and implemented only water projects; and L'Office



-2 -
pour l'Exploitation des Ressources Hydraulique du Haut Niger (OERHN) which was established to
operate the Selinque hydropower project, as a bulk supplier, principally to EDM.
2.04       The organization of EDM did not segregate power and water activities, responsibility
for all its activities was heavily concentrated in the General Manager who was appointed by the
President, and there was no overall technical direction and little coordination between services,
delegation of authority or adequate evaluation of h "tor specific problems. EDM suffered from a
serious shortage of competent, qualified staff anf -   k of adequate training facilities. Operations
were also hampered by poor and difficult comm;.4-cations. Financial constraints had resulted in
inadequate maintenance and a scarcity of spare parts and tools. These factors plus poor salaries and
working conditions resulted in low staff morale.
2.05       In both sectors there was an urgent need for institutional restructuring, for asset
rehabilitation, for investment planning and for the articulation and implementation of measures to
restore financial health to EDM. The project resulted in the Bank taking a leading role in these
remedial measures and, most importantly since virtually all public sector investment was financed
externally by foreign aid, in organizing donor meetings for the purpose of optimizing coordination
among the many aid and development organizations active in the two sectors.
3.   Prject Oijectives and Description
3.01          ject Obiective. Objectives were diverse and multiple. In the broadest terms, the
project was intended to extend the power supply, to rehabilitate and strengthen EDM, to recover
costs, to train Malians, to economize on imported fuels and to supply water. More specifically, it
would assist the parastatal power utility to prepare future works to be carried out as part of a long
term program of rehabilitation and expansion. It aimed at alleviating EDM's managerial and
operational constraints and at ensuring extended, more reliable and cost effective, services, primarily
to urban, but also to some rural, inhabitants. On reflection, it is apparent that the perceived need for
Bank leadership in, especially, the power sector in this its first intervention, contributed to the
structuring of a project with such basic and all-encompassing objectives; and it was somewhat
unrealistic in the particular circumstances of Mali to expect significant realization of these far-
reaching institutional, organizational, policy and training objectives within the time-frame of the
project. From the outset there had to be an explicit assumption that such prospects were remote and
that a longer time-frame, including successive loans and additional technical assistance, would be
required. And this, indeed, proved to be the case. In the Second Power Project that followed,
technical asw si nce continued with especial emphasis on training. Changes were made in scope and
approach based on past learning experience.
3.02       Prject Description. The project consisted of:
a)    a power component, comprised of reinforcement and extension of Bamako's
distribution system, construction of a biomass power plant at Mopti/Sevare,
rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant and extension of the powerline
communication system;
b)   a water supply component to resolve the main bottlenecks in distribution and
production facilities in Bamako;
c)   construction of facilities and supply of vehicles and equipment for EDM's
operations, including the extension of its training center; and



d)   technical assistance to strengthen EDM management, to carry out operational and
sector policy studies, and to complete preparatory studies and designs for future
work.
3.03       Changes in Proiect Scope. The only major change in project scope was the substitution
of a conventional diesel electric plant for the proposed biomass plant at Mopti/Sevare, following
problems experienced with a prototype biomass plant in Cameroon. This change resulted in savings
in investment cost to the OPEC Fund which was financing this component; savings which the Fund
subsequently allocated to further extensions and rehabilitation of the Bamako water distribution system
in order to meet 1990 estimated demand and to supply an additional 3,000 domestic connections. The
legal documents were amended to permit some minor disbursement against procurement in local
currelicy, a contingency which had not been foreseen at appraisal and to establish a Revolving Fund
under the Special Action Program to help overcome the constraints of the Government in prefinancing
goods and services ultimately to be financed from the Credit. A strengthening US dollar during
project implementation (the dollar equivalent wJ the SDR 20.4 million Credit amount was reduced
from US $24 million to little over US $20 million) caused some modifications to be made to the size
of the various reticulation systems in order to remain within the original cost estimates. The detailed
engineering and preparation of bidding documents for the second phase of Sotuba was terminated
after the draft feasibility report had been received when it became apparent that Sotuba would no
longer be a least cost solution until early in the next century once the Manantali hydro-electri^ project
then under construction was completed and generating power.
4.   Project Desien and Organization
4.01       A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US $0.83 million, which was repaid
from the proceeds of the Credit, funded much of the preparatory work required for project definition
and appraisal. Three other organizations - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the
Fondes d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the OPEC Special Fund - participated in the project,
CCCE and FAC together financing 50% of the combined cost of the technical assistance component
and the rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant and OPEC the thermal plant at Mopti/Sevare.
While coordination and supervision of implementation was provided by the Bank, the complications
introduced for the Government by this necessary and appropriate quadrilateral financing did not
enhance the efficiency of Government's control of overall operations.
4.02       The project centered around a core of technical assistance to address EDM's managerial
and operational problems and was so designed that a total of some 52 work-years of expert services
to EDM were included, a component which represented over 30% of total project cost and which,
when combined with the 155 work-months of additional technical assistance needed for engineering
design, preparation of tender documents and supervision of construction, amounted to more than 40%
of project cost. Technical assistance was no stranger to EDM; it had been provided in the past in
varying quantities by, primarily, French aid agencies, but always in the form of limited, discrete
expertise adopting advisory roles and postures. Under the project, however, there was to be a
cohesive team of 12 expatriate experts possessing broad management and in-line functions and an
expatriate coordinator, all of whom were also to provide on the job training for Malian counterparts.
This approach was a scaled down version of an original concept in which the team was to be made
up of double the number of experts, a concept which, at the time, clearly offended against national
pride and triggered Government concerns for integrity and references to "re-colonization". Indeed,
it took a high-level post appraisal mission to allay some of these sensitivities and to eradicate some
of the Government's manifest uncertainties. Despite Government's wariness over the issue, however,



some fairly drastic measures were necessary and justified. The fact that, at the time, the Government
was contemplating the abandonment of its ownership of EDM to a foreign firm strengthened that
conviction on the part of Bank staff. Nevertheless, even the diminished application of direct technical
assistance was a brave option to adopt. Past experience in Mali had shown that there was resistance
to such an approach, which had often sponsored hostilities between experts and counterparts, and
there were few assurances that appropriate, suitable counterpart staff who would stay the course could
be found in sufficient numbers. The recruitment of the Project Coordinator from a different
consulting firm than the other members of the technical assistance team was, in retrospect, a serious
mistake since it contributed to much of the tension that was engendered and the institutional
implementation difficulties that ensued. This mistake was only corrected in 1987 when a member of
the team of twelve took over, creating much better relationships.
4.03       The physical components of the project were appropriate in concept, design and timing
given the priority which the development of the two sectors deserved.
5.   Project Implementation
5.01       Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up. Although the Credit was approved on July
6, 1982 it was signed only on October 14, 1982 when temporarily depleted IDA funds again became
available. Conditions of Effectiveness of the Credit were relatively straight forward, requiring the
execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement whereby the proceeds of the Credit were to be passed by
the Government to EDM, the hiring of the Project Coordinator, the contracting for the services of
the team of experts and the fulfillment of the conditions precedent to disbursement by the
cofinanciers. The originally planned date for Effectiveness was in September 1982 and the Credit was
actually declared to be effective on May 13, 1983, a delay occasioned mainly by the need to meet
the cross effectiveness clause in respect of the other donors. The need for notification of the
effectiveness of the FAC involvement was waived when cumbersome administrative procedures within
FAC and Government continued to pose unacceptable delays. In all, the start-up of the project
suffered some nine months delay through no fault of the beneficiaries. Indeed, both the Government
and EDM appear to have acted promptly to fulfil their part of the Conditions of Effectiveness.
5.02       Implementation Schedule. The project was originally scheduled to be completed by
December 31, 1987, but the Closing Date was postponed and the project was eventually completed
by Decembe: 31, 1988. The main reasons for the postponement were:
(a)   delays in recruitment of individual experts, the last of them not arriving until
April 1984. The implementation of most project components were affected in
varying degrees by the initial absence of the full range of expertise to be made
available. For example, the late arrival of the Chief of Finance resulted in new
and later dates being determined for compliance with many of the financial
covenants.
(b) dilatoriness on the part of the Government in approving the terms of reference
for various studies. Approval of the terms of reference of the Power Sector
Master Plan was eventually delayed to such an extent that approval became a
condition of appraisal of the follow-on power project.
(c)   a decision to revise the terms of reference of the tariff study to include Selinque
generation.



-5-
(d)  the retendering of the Mopti/Sevare thermal station when bids substantially
exceeded the estimate. It subsequently transpired that one of the reasons why the
bids had been so unsatisfactory was that the list of firms invited to tender had not
been expanded and the specifications had been only marginally altered, even
though the specialized biomass plant had been superseded by a conventional one.
This effort to save time proved to be shortsighted.
(e)  problems apparendy encountered by Government in allocating land for the
various components needing new sites, especially the new computer center.
(f)  serious delays in completion of the OPEC financed portion of the Bamako water
supply distribution system following a lengthy suspension of disbursements by
OPEC when Mali failed to meet its repayment obligations to the OPEC Special
Fund.
Apart from sub-paragraph d) above there was little beyond exhortation and persuasion that the Bank
could have done to expedite matters, other than to allocate additional staff resources to a more
intensive level of supervision than perhaps the size and nature of the project warranted and the
expectation of results deserved, given the constraints on the Government.
5.03       Procurement. Although there were delays in the recruitment of individuals for the team
of experts, procurement of physical components proceeded satisfactorily once the various studies and
detailed engineering had been completed.
5.04       Disbursement. Disbursement fell far behind the profile estimated at appraisal. In 1986,
for example, disbursements lagged at less than half the estimate as a result of the delays in
implementation. However, by the revised Closing Date, virtually all disbursements against
commitments had been achieved and the last payment was made by 6.30.1989 when the sum of SDR
6,063 remained and was canceled.
5.05       PoectCost. Apart from the Mopti/Sevare plant which was altered in scope and
thereby reduced significantly in cost (the balance saved being utilized by the OPEC Fund under
parallel financing to augment the Bamako water supply distribution), project costs overall remained
much as had been estimated at appraisal. There was no cost over-run in the aggregate and only
relatively minor reallocations of funds between disbursement categories to match actual disbursements
and the dispersal of unallocated funds was necessary at the closing of the accounts.
6.   Proect Results
6.01       Attainment of Project objectives. The physical components of the project yielded
satisfactory results. In Bamako, there is no doubt but that the quality and reliability of both the
electricity and the water supply systems were greatly improved by the additions to the systems, by
the work of rehabilitation and extension and by the removal of bottlenecks. Power generated more
nearly met demand, new customers were accommodated and thousands of households enjoyed the
benefits of electricity and treated, piped water for the first time. At appraisal, the rate of return on
the Bamako power distribution system investment was calculated to be 21% and 11 % on both the
water supply investment and the biomass thermal plant. Unfortunately, the time lapse since
completion, the fact that the planned completion supervision mission did not take place, and that the
power sector physical works were to a great extent subsumed in the follow up second power project
has resulted in insufficient data being available at this stage on which to base fresh estimates which



- 6 -
would have any real validity. It would seem to be most unlikely, however, given the increases in
sales and tariff levels (which the earlier calculations took as proxy for benefits) and the degree of
realism of the original cost estimates, that the rates of return at completion could have been less than
those estimated.
6.02       The same, relatively favorable assessment, unfortunately, cannot be given to the
rehabilitation and strengthening of EDM, the recovery of costs and the training of Malians. Few
significant changes took place in the organizational framework of the sector. Little improvement in
communications between the different supervising bodies or reduction in their hostility towards each
other occurred and the low level of managerial autonomy and initiative prevailing in EDM failed to
improve significantly. Government interference in management remained a negative factor as did a
general lack of motivation on the part of EDM management, a condition not helped by the fact that
the technical assistance team and the project coordinator came from different agencies. The
continuation of the program to strengthen EDM became a major component of the second project,
which established specific targets.
6.03       The institutional study when it was finally submitted in 1986 predictably recommended
that two separate utilities should be created to be in charge of electricity and water, that the
concession system should be abolished, that a new regime of State supervision over the utilities
should be introduced and that the operation of Selinque should be transferred to the new utility.
Although the Government appeared to concur, other than in the matter of the creation of a national
power utility, reservations were expressed and foot-dragging ensued. When it became apparent that
no consensus on the future organization of the power sector had been reached, follow up once again
became a part of the second project and the finalization of the institutional/legal framework became
a condition of Board presentation of a Public Enterprise Institutional Development project then being
appraised.
6.04       EDM's financial position remained critical throughout the life of the project, to a great
extent because of the Government's persistent violation of the vitally important covenants calling for
prompt reduction in the arrears owed to EDM by the public sector to no more than three months
billings and the provision of budgeted funds on a regular and annual basis for the meeting of such
liabilities. In some years, Government arrears exceeded nine months of billings. Only in May 1989,
just before the approval by the Bank of the second power project, was a significant portion of the
arrears paid by the Government. In view of the very difficult state of the Govermment's own finances
during the period of implementation, this performance deficiency can be understood but, given the
priority attached to the project, cannot be condoned. These issues also had to be highlighted and
relegated to the Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project for correction. Although some
improvement was achieved in the collection of private sector billings, accounts receivable remained
unacceptably high as did power losses. The consultancy costing nearly US $3 million designed to
update customer files and accounts, review billing systems and organize a Customer Department
failed to make much impact and the benefits derived from this consultancy were not commensurate
with the efforts made and the funds expended. It is difficult to allocate responsibility. There were
metered supplies not recorded and many supplies found to be without meters. Meter reading was
deplorably bad. The second power project includes a component for further improvement of EDM's
commercial operations. Limited progress was, however, made in separating power and water
accounts, in introducing computerization, in data processing and in the annual audit of accounts.
Although the Credit provided for a tariff study to be completed by the end of 1983, a draft report was
not submitted until 1985 and then had to be reviewed to incorporate the tariff charged to EDM for
Selinque power. Tariffs were raised on several occasions, precipitously by 35% for retail tariffs in
November 1985 but, although the overall magnitude of the increases was in line with the



recommendations of the consultants, the structure of the tariffs remained unchanged. However, the
power market continued to grow at a high rate and revenues in 1985 and beyond were higher than
the appraisal estimates because, in part, of the tariff increases.
6.05       Among other financial covenants was a provision that EDM's internal cash generation
each year, power and water being taken separately, should not be less than 10% of its direct and
indirect capital expenditures. Since, for most of the period of implementation of the project, separate
accounts were not prepared for water and electricity, the determination of compliance by sector was
not possible and, eventually, the auditors had to be specifically requested to prepare separate source
and application of funds statements to ascertain the true position. Because of the continuing, and in
some years increasing, levels of public sector arrears, it is most unlikely that compliance was
achieved.
6.06       The problems linked to the technical assistance and training components are essentially
those which pertained to earlier efforts in the sectors and, to this extent, should have been more
clearly foreseen. The caliber of the assistance was not always adequate and some of the individuals
not always very effective; the team failed to achieve cohesiveness and the effort lacked leadership.
The quality of local staff appeared often to be too low to assume senior responsibilities and qualified
local personnel appeared to be disinterested in working for EDM because of the inadequate salaries
offered. Motivation was lacking, the determination and commitment of senior local management was
questionable and their rapport with the expatriate staff ambiguous to say the least. Salary and benefit
differentials, as was to be expected, remained a source of resentment and antagonism. As far as the
training component was concerned, early problems regarding the lack of trainees were partly
resolved, although extensive and concentrated efforts had to be made on a continuing basis by the
training center management to convince senior EDM management of the importance of releasing staff
for training. Throughout the project, problems were encountered in the provision and retention of
appropriate counterparts to work with the technical assistance team, although there is no doubt but
that some Malian engineers benefitted by working in close proximity with the experts.
6.07       Impact. The immediate positive impact of the project is represented by the sectoral
growth it achieved in the physical dimensions of both the power and water sectors, in terms of
increased generation of power and treatment of water supplies and in the rehabilitation and extensions
provided to both systems. The beneficial effects on productivity, on health and on the quality of life
in general of the numerous beneficiaries must have been considerable. The rehabilitation,
debottlenecking and extension of distribution systems coupled with some positive advances in
investment planning, opened avenues for future growth which only time can properly assess. The
institutional impacts of the project, however, were minimal. The best that can be said is that a
foundation for the reorganization of the public utilities and the improvement of their performance in
some aspects of their functions was laid, and that a basis on which further sectoral rationalization
could take place was provided. In all these aspects, however, real progress remained contingent on
the successful implementation of other, related project activity.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.01       This assessment of the extent to which an acceptable net flow of benefits can be
maintained throughout the economic life of the project relies on a qualitative examination of project
activities derived, after a lapse of several years, from the documentary and anecdotal evidence
available. Sustainability in the context of this project depends on beneficiary participation, which was
less than fully committed to the larger objectives, on technology adoption and adaptation which posed
no great problems and which, from the experience of substituting a conventional for a largely



experimental biomass thermal plant at Mopti/Sevare, showed the necessary flexibility and was
unexceptional, from recurrent cost financing and cost recovery and from human resource
development. Tariff increases more or less equated recurrent cost requirements, even though the tariff
structure remained disappointingly unaltered, but poor collection and persistent customer arrears well
in excess of the stipulated three month billings perpetuated a very poor financial performance.
Technical assistance and training, although provided in well structured quantities and of not
unacceptable quality, failed to make discernible inroads against the lack of motivation and the
shortages of qualified staff, so that the human resource development that had been expected did not
materialize. Overall, the policy environment remained incompatible.
7.02       These features are systemic to the wider environment in many countries in the Region,
especially the institutional weaknesses which permeate both project arrangements and much of the
basic institutional infrastructure, as do the deteriorating economic and financial conditions that act to
undermine the best arrangements for project sustainability. On balance, it can be said that the physical
components erected under the project are capable of being sustained provided, of course, that the
capacity for maintenance remains with the utility; the institutional, organizational and policy
achievements per se, which were minimal, are not. The saving grace is that what progress was made
is being strengthened and elaborated by further project activity which, in the course of its
implementation, may enhance the prospects for and the degree of sustainability. That remains to be
seen.
8.   Bank Performance
8.01       On the whole, the Bank's performance was satisfactory in that it made a positive
contribution to the physical and institutional development of the power and water sectors in Mali and,
even though the results failed to reach expectations, opened and delineated the route to future
progress. The Bank's role in organizing and coordinating other multilateral and bilateral aid for Mali
in general, and the water and power sectors in particular, was commendable and its influence in these
regards meaningful. In retrospect, however, some shortcomings are evident. In the design of the
project, undue confidence was placed on the efficiency of technical assistance to overcome
institutional and policy weaknesses. In retrospect, with the benefit of relevant experience in other
African countries, expectations would have been lower. The proportion of the project's consultancy
cost, even though provided on IDA terms to the Government were high (about 50%). These were
further complemented by technical assistance financed by FAC and CCCE. The credit financed much
of the engineering costs for the Bamako Segou transmission line and the distribution in Bamako and
the rehabilitation of the isolated centers. The usefulness of these consultancy services, including the
technical assistance for institutional strengthening should be measured in terms of cost of delays
avoided and better operational efficiency of EDM, which are hard to quantify. On the whole it is
felt that technical assistance of this scale was justified given the circumstances.
8.02       In terms of frequency and numbers of missions, supervision was more than adequate,
20 supervision missions during the period December, 1982 and May, 1989 being carried out by
experienced staff at less than 6 monthly intervals. However, the water supply component was
supervised separately, five of the 20 missions being devoted to that small component, and it would
appear from the records that the first of such missions did not take place until early in 1985, almost
two years after the Credit became effective. None of these five missions have left behind a Form 590
detailing their evaluations as a part of their back-to-office reports. A final full mission planned for
October 1989 to evaluate project completion did not take place, leaving a number of archival gaps.
More importantly, the last two missions charged with the supervision of the main project were, to
a considerable extent, preoccupied with the preparation and appraisal of the second power project,



-9-
the components of which were to subsume much of the content of the project being supervised. The
final sequences of suipervision may have been disrupted by the 1987/88 reorganization of the Bank
and the subsequent transfer of the staff members principally concerned with project execution and
supervision, btut that provides little in the way of excuses for the failure to complete fully the last
stages of supervision. The omission from the supervision missions of a technical training specialist
when it became obvious that the training component was meeting with resistance was unfortunate.
The component was reviewed briefly and separately by such a specialist on two occasions but this
level of supervision was i-isufficiently intensive to be of real assistance.
8.03       The violation by the beneficiaries of many of the financial covenants was a constant
matter for discontent. It was sufficiently serious for the Project Coordinator to warn the Bank towards
the end of the project that non-payment of arrears by the Government, municipalities and state
enterprises was bankrupting EDM, making a farce of the budgeting system put in place in 1984,
resulting in totally inadequate resources for the implementation of the planned work program and
nullifying any possibility that the 10% level of internal financing required by the Bank could be met.
As is usually the case in these events, the Bank's only real weapon of coercion was the threat of
suspension and eventual cancellation, which was apparently deemed to be too draconian in the
particular circumstances of Mali. Nevertheless, firmer measures might have been taken. The constant
exhortation by successive supervision missions could have been elevated to higher executive levels
both in Government and the Bank before, in effect, deferring the issue by making the appraisal and
approval of future projects in the sector conditional upon compliance. There can be little doubt that
the failure to impose the financial discipline called for by these covenants will redound unfavorably
on the smooth implementation
of successor projects.
8.04       In designing the technical assistance component, the Bank acted somewhat unrealistically
and over-ambitiously. It failed to take due cognisance of previous problems in the area of technical
assistance in Mali, did not address the tensions which inevitably arose between the expatriate technical
team and local management and counterparts if only on the question of remuneration and other
discriminations, and acted imprudently, as it transpired, in permitting the Project Coordinator to be
recruited from one consulting organization and the team of twelve from another.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01       The performance of the Government of Mali, due consideration being given to its
formidable constraints, its parlous finances, the deteriorating economic state of the country, the
complexity of the project itself and the complications arising from the multiplicity of donors, cannot
be described as satisfactory. Much of the responsibility for failure to achieve stated objectives must
rest with it. The virtual emasculation of EDM by the Government's prolonged failure to meet its
financial obligations to the organization preordained the continued disarray within EDM and severely
limited any possibilities of meaningful institutional improvement. Its constant interference in the
management of EDM was also a negative factor. The continual delays in project execution following,
for example, dilatoriness in approving terms of reference of various studies and in allocating sites for
development must also be laid at Government's door. Within EDM, performance was mixed.
Although there was much sincerity displayed by its senior staff in their relationship with the Bank,
their problems were overwhelming and to have accomplished as much as they did is to their credit.
Nevertheless, many remained insufficiently motivated and their failure fully to support the training
component compounded their problems. The performance of the utility in diminishing electricity
losses and improving billing and collection was also unsatisfactory.



- 10-
10.  Performance of Consultants
10.01 With few exceptions, the performance of the consultants engaged for feasibility and other
studies, for detailed engineering and for supervision of contracts varied from satisfactory to good.
The exceptions were limited to; the tariff study which was heavily criticized by Bank staff and was
deemed to be below average; the institutional study, the first draft of which did not meet either the
Government's or the Bank's approval and which had to be revised and reissued; and the major study
of billings and collections where the results were disappointing and did not match the funds spent and
the efforts made, although the poor results were due not only to the poor performance by the
consultant but also to inadequate supervision by EDM. For the most part, the consultants displayed
good engineering expertise and the exercise of sound judgement.
10.02 As far as the technical assistance team is concerned, the overall caliber was not always
adequate, nor some individuals very effective. There was a failure to work as a cohesive group and
the effort lacked leadership. There was an understandable frustration over their efforts to transfer
skills and improve institutional performance. In sum, however, a costly technical assistance program
did not bring commensurate results.
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.01 The Legal Documents were adequate and appropriate for achieving project objectives in the
key organizational and financial areas and the Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the
review of project implementation. No PCR mission took place and the task of compiling this report
two years after project closing was exacerbated by incomplete records in the files and a system of
supervision (the production of Forms 590) not designed to be of much assistance to an ex post facto
evaluation.



- I1 -
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PREFACE
This is the project completion report for the First Energy Project implemented in Mali from 1983 to
1989.
The First Energy Project was financed by the International Development Association, the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique, the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation and the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund for International Development, for a total initial cost of $US
43.36 M, including preliminary project study costs.
The credits, loans and subsidies were granted to the Mali Government and on-lent to Energie du
Mali, a parastatal company, the concession holder for electricity and water production and distribution
on the territory of the Republic of Mali.
The following agreements were entered into:
Cofinancers     Agreement No.               Date             Amount
IDA             Credit 1282 MLI              10/14/82   SDR 20,400,000
CCCE            Agreement                   6/2/83      FF 31,000,000
58.255.00.050.T
OPEC Fund       Loans 241 P                 6/81        $US 3,700,000
376 P                 6/85       $US 2,750,000
FAC             Agreement
65/C/DLP/83/MLI            6/3/83      Subsidies
The IDA and CCCE funds were fully disbursed on /30/1989. Projects financed by the OPEC Fund
were fully completed on 6/30/1989: only the last disbursements on final balances remain to be paid.
FAC subsidies cover training and technical assistance which will continue beyond 1989.
Rollover projects are covered by new agreements:
CCCE agreement signed on April 4, 1987 for CFAF 150 M
IDA advance of August 1988: Second Electrical Project preparation
CCCE agreement signed October 15, 1988 for CFAF 1 125 M
IDA agreement signed on May 30, 1989 for SDR 24.2 M.
ACDI, KFW, BEI financing agreements in 1988, BKO - Segou HT line.



PROJECTr PAT-A
Goverment request to IDA for the electricity sector    .................................................  1977
IDA Mission justifying intervention in the water sector . ............................................ June 1978
Project identfication mission ....................................................   binningof 1979
Project preparation advance agreement ..................................................... October 1979
IDA appraisal mission ......................................................  June 1980
Mali Energy Rehabilitation Plan (CCCE - FAC - EDF Mission) ..................................... October 1980
IDA postappraisal mission ......................................................                                   April 1981
Signing of Credit and Project Agreemens with IDA: Credit 1282 MLI .............................  October 14, 1982
ROLLOVER PROJECTS:
Signing of Agreement CCCE 58 255 00 072 OG: CFAF 150 M ..................................... April 4, 1987
Signing of Agreement CCCE 58 225 00 084 OM and 0830B: CFAF 1.125 B  ......................... October 15, 1988
Signing of Credit and IDA Project Agreements: Credit 1988 MLI (electricity) ...........................   May 30, 1989
ACDI, KFW, BEI financing agreements for construction of the Bamako - Segou HT line  ..........................  1988
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Beneficiary and executing agency: Energie du Mali (EDM)
TOTAL ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS FOR CREDIT 1282 MLI
(in millions of SDRs)
December 31                               1983        1984        198         192 1            1988
annual disbursements                       2,1
total disbursements                        2,1         6,6        11,4        16,2  20,4
percentage per year %                     10,3        22,1        23,5        23,5  20,6
total percentage in %                     10,3        32,4        55,9        79,4  100,0
Ac1un
annual disbursements                       0,8         2,9         5,2         6,0   2,1       2,2       1,2
total disbursements                        0,8         3,7         8,9        14,9  17,0       19,2    20,4
percentage per year in %                   3,9        14,2        25,5        29,4  10,0       10,8     5,4
total percentage in %                      3,9        18,1        43,6        73,0  83,3       94,1    100,0



v 13 -
FIRST ENERGY PROJECT
EQE  COMPIIOQN REPO
I.   INTRODUCTION: EDM'S ENVIRONMENT BEFORE PROJECT START-UP
1.   This report examines the First Energy Project which took place during the period 1983-1989.
The beneficiary of this project was Energie du Mali, which also served as the executing
agency. EDM's environment before the project start-up is described below.
2.   Energie du Mali is a parastatal company, and is the concession holder for electricity and water
production and distribution throughout the territory. EDM's capital, which amounted to CFAF
50 M before the project start-up, was 55 percent owned by the Mali Government and 45
percent by outside partners (39 percent by CCCE and 6 percent by EDF).
3.   Public electricity distribution was divided among 10 independent electrical systems in 1982.
-    Tne Bamako - Kati - Kouiikoro interconnected system, alone accounting for 90 percent
of total production;
-    And nine remote systems (approximately 10 GWH of production in 1982).
In 1979, production was distributed as follows:
-    Hydroelectric production: 34.6 GWH (Sotuba to Bamako for 5 installed MW and Felou
to Kayes for 0.6 installed MW);
-    Thermal producti3n: 66.7 GWH (Dar Salam to Bamako and remote systems).
Peak power at Bamako increased from 7 MW in 1971 to 15.4 MW in 1978. Electricity users
numbered 10,800 and 18,500 respectively for these years.
The commissioning of the Selingue plant in 1981 (44 installed MW) liberalized supply and
established the main source of production, allowing a 60 percent increase in production for the
Bamako system during the 1981-1984 period. This production was 100 percent hydroelectric
in 1982; the Dar Salam thermal plant was used as a backup for the system after the renovation,
which was scheduled for 1984 in the project.
Less than 1 percent of Mali's hydroelectric potential is exploited. Firewood is the main source
of energy. Petroleum products are imported, and thermal energy production costs are high,
primarily because of Mali's landlocked position.
Less than 5 percent of the country's total population has access to electricity, and less than 30
percent has access in urban areas.
4.   Public water distribution was divided among 9 independent systems in 1982:
-    The Bamako - Kati system, which accounts for nearly 60 percent of total production;
-    Eight remote systems.



- 14 -
In 1979, total water sales amounted to 8.7 million m3 for 14,060 customers, including 9,500
in Bamako.
The Master Plan for the Bamako drinking water supply, developed in 1980 by the consulting
firm SAFEGE, brought to light the high levels of investments needed in the water sector.
5.   In 1979, the main problems EDM faced were essentially due to the 1973 oil shock, and the
collection of receivables.
We note that there was no customer management service, and that all of the tunctional and
operational services reported directly to the General Manager.
Likewise, there was no segregation between water and electricity activities within the
company.
At the end of 1980, the company had 806 permanent employees, including only 20 managers,
which is less than 3 percent of its work force. The college of supervisory technical specialists
is also under-represented, with 145 employees, or 18 percent of the company's overall work
force.
Where the personnel function is concerned, only current individual management is covered.
The basic tools for initiating collective management and planning studies are most often
lacking.
Personnel training was recognized as important. lhe EDM development center was
rejuvenated in 1979, and provides training for supervisory anti executing employees.
However, it does fall short of expectations due to insufficient resources an the extent of the
needs. There is also no coverage for the water component.
EDM uses a simplified analytical operating system for accounting. The need has arisen for
a new accounting system and the formalization of methods and procedures, to ensure that
information is accurate, that it is distributed in a timely manner, and to ensure that the
company is managed efficiently.
Furthermore, the precarious cash situation provides little impetus for the development of an
operating and investment budget. Expenditures are made on an individual basis, and the
different budget centers do not have full authority.
Although wage levels are not the essential motivating factor in employment, they cannot justify
employee commitment to the company.
6.   In 1979, EDM was under the authority of the Supervisory Ministry for State Enterprises and
Corporations, essentially responsible for administrative and management supervision. The
Minister acted as Chairman of the Board of Directors.  The Ministry of Industrial
Development and Tourism (MDMI) was responsible for technical supervision, acting though
the National Water and Energy Administration, which indeed essentially handled water supply
projects.
The Office pour l'Exploitation des Ressources Hydrauliques du Haut Niger (OERHN) was
created with the commissioning of the S6lingud multi-purpose dam. It is under the authority



- 15-
of the MDfT. In addition to the site's electrical operations, its activities include irrigation,
fishing, navigation and tourism.
7.   Water and electricity tariffs were raised 30 percent across the board on March 1, 1980 and 11
percent on February 1, 1982.
After these increases, average prices net of taxes were CFAF 43/KWH for electricity and
CFAF 47/m3 for water.
Costs for access to the two forms of energy were still very high in comparison with household
revenue (an average of CFAF 100,000 for connection alone).
Water is still relatively inexpensive for major consumers, whereas, for electricity, the MT/BT
price ratio for electricity is 0.82.
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
i.  EProect origin and preparation
11.  In 1977, Mali requested financing from IDA for an electricity sector investment program.
In June 1978, an IDA health mission found that investments were also justified in the water
sector.
The water and electricity projects were identified in early 1979. Based on the project
preparation, the IDA granted an advance of $US 970,000 in October 1979. CCCE also
granted a study credit of FF 0.8 M.
A joint IDA - CCCE - FAC appraisal took place in June 1980. The report on the EDM
Rehabilitation Plan was filed in October 1980, and an IDA postappraisal mission was held in
April 1981.
All information collected in this manner was reflected in the IDA appraisal report of June 10,
1982.
12.  The agreements were signed between October 1982 (IDA) and June 1983 (CCCE and FAC).
The advance granted by IDA made it possible to begin the study for a biomass plant in Mopti.
The OPEC Fund loan signed in June 1981 was intended to finance the work on the plant.
13.  The program to strengthen, extend and improve EDM was intended to be conducted in two
phases:
-    Phase one involves the project covered by this report. From 1983 to 1987, the Project
covers rehabilitation of EDM operation and management, elimination of bottlenecks,
extension of networks and preparation for phase two.
-    Phase two consists of execution of the projects identified in phase one, during the period
198441987.



- 16 -
2.    r ioect objeci    (excerpts from the 06/82 IDA appraisal report)
i)   Reinforcement of institutions by easing EDM operation and management constraints.
iii)  Improvement of and increase in the water and electricity supply for the population of Bamako.
iii) [sic] Extension of the zone supplied by the Selingue hydroelectric plant to replace thermal energy.
iv)   Electricity supply for rural areas in the Sdgou region.
v)   Use of agricultural waste to produce electricity in the Mopti/Sevare region and thus to
economize on diesel fuel imports.
3.    Woect description
The project included the following components:
i)   "Technical assistance" component
-    Secondment of technical assistants to reinforce EDM management: 1 Coordinator and
12 employees distributed among the main positions not including supply and
administration;
-    Studies and measures to be assigned to specialized firms under short-term contracts:
IUser survey
Study on strengthening accounting methods
Tool for optimizing electrical production in the Bamako interconnected
system
* Organization of a preventive maintenance service
Electrical network planning study
Studies on water and electricity tariffs, unification of the electrical sector
(EDM and OERHN) in charge of investment planning and finance.
ii)   Civil engineering component
-    Construction of offices for the Bamako operations service
-    Extension of the EDM Professional Development Center (CPP)
-    Construction of 10 villas to house the technical assistants.
iii)  Eleetric4t componen
-    Rehabilitation of the diesel plant, Dar Salam to Bamako
-    Installation of communication system between plants and distribution stations of Bamako
-    Reinforcement and extension of Bamako distribution network
-    Construction of a biomass plant at Mopti - Sevare.
iv)  Wa   cmponent
-    Elimination of the main bottlenecks in the Bamako production - distribution system.



- 17 -
v)   EgW=nt and vehicle componeta
-    Supply of vehicles, tools and instruments for EDM operations throughout Mali.
vi)  Technical studies component
-    Engineering for extension of hydroelectric plant from Sotuba to Bamako
-    Engineering for Bamako - Sdgou THT line
-    Engineering for extension of Bamako water facilities
vii) prolect preparation advance refinancing
TH. PROJEC-T CMS
1.  iPrect effectiveness and start-up
Below are the only conditions for IDA Credit 1282 MLI effectiveness:
-    Hiring of the Coordinator in charge of project management and the technical assistance
team.
-    Effectiveness of CCCE and FAC funds.
Credit 1282 MLI was effective in March 1983 when the Coordinator arrived.
CCCE and PAC loan and subsidy effectiveness depended essentially on approval from these
organizations of the technical assistance project management agreement signed on 2/15/1983.
The Project had already started thanks to advances for some preparatory studies provided by
the CCCE and IDA. The amounts disbursed were respectively FF 614,314 at end 1982 for
the CCCE and SDR 628,623.81 in June 1983 for the IDA.
2.   Priect cs
The tables below list the estimated project costs per investor at the time the financing
agreements were signed, and the actual costs.
The exchange rate of $US 1 = CFAF 25 was used to prepare the project financing plan, with
CFAF 1 = SDR 0Q0034.
The US dollar fluctuated widely during the disbursement period. Below are some individual
exchange rates for the US dollar and the SDR for disbursements made during the following
months:



- 18 -
US dollar valu           CFAF value
inCEAF                  inSDRs
August 1983                                      408                   0,00234
March 1984                                       398                   0,00236
October 1984                                     479                   0,00211
January 1985                                     486                   0,00211
June 1985                                        469                   0,00213
December 1985                                    386                   0,00238
May 1985                                         349                   0,00243
June 1986                                        365                   0,00234
August 1986                                      335                   0,00248
November 1986                                    337                   0,00249
February 1987                                    310                   0,00261
July 1987                                        309                   0,00258
November 1987                                    285                   0,00261
January 1988                                     282                   0,00259
April 1988                                       285                   0,00256
November 1988                                    301                   0,00246
May 1989                                         319                   0,00242
June 1989                                        337                   0,00239
In this way, the US dollar remained much higher than the initially-estimated rate of CFAF 250 (+
13 percent using the minimum value from the above table reached in November 1987; + 94 percent
using the maximum value reached in January 1985).
On the other hand, the Loan Agreement drawn up in US dollars with the OPEC Fund for the urgent
work for the Bamako drinking water supply under phase two (Loan 376 P for $US 2,750,000) was
signed on 6/23/1985 when the US dollar was worth approximately CFAF 400. The initial
disbursements began in late 1986 when the US dollar dropped to around CFAF 300. Consequently,
the contracts were CFAF 70 M short of completion. Disbursements were suspended at that time, to
be resumed in May of 1989 with an exchange rate of approximately 1 US dollar = CFAF 330, which
finally made it possible to finance all of the scheduled work.
Annex I lists the actual costs of each contract per investor. giving the breakdown of disbursements
for IDA made directly and locally.
Below are the collection rates registered for individuals in Bamako (collections for Month M on issues
from month M - 1).
sthalf- 87      end Spt87 total 1987  lItqtr 88  tota 1988  Ist qtr89
% 75.3         80.0    81.4       92.2      84.9      91.4
Customer credit in numbers of months evolved as follows:
on 123L1              18              198             1297             i198
Administrative
customers             10.0            5.5              6.5
Individual customers  5.1             4.2              4.6
Total EDM             6.8             4.7              5.4



- 19 -
It must nonetheless be pointed out that the reduction in the amount of arrears is due to structural
adjustment loans granted plus the fact that some arrears were posted in losses and profits.
Network yield
With more effective collection and cost control, this component is and will remain a priority action
for EDM. Despite the actions that were taken, yields in water and electricity have still respectively
stagnated.
The yield problems have been arranged sequentially.
In the outstations, reliable measurements are most often impossible due to the absence of protection.
Restoration work must be covered by a special outside financing operation.
The Bamako electricity production yield was analyzed thoroughly in 1987. This evaluation led to the
adaptation of reducer caliber and precision categories for more accurate measurements. A theoretical
calculation method makes it possible to verify the reliability of energy balance readouts. It was found
that production - transportation losses had been overvalued until 1987, which caused the distribution
yield to be artificially low.
For Bamako electricity distribution, specific actions were taken for MT customers (business market
with 240 customers) and for BT customers (mass market).



ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED COSTS. CCCE AGREEMENT
in thousands of FF
Agreement                 Actual
Component                                                    estimate                  cost
Rehabilitation of Dar Salam plant                            16,780.0                  19,131.5
Villas for the technical assistance team                     6,750.0                    3,491.9
Technical assistance and training                            6,020.0                    5,596.1
Miscellaneous and incidenal                                    650.0                    2,158.9
Study credit refinancing                                       800.0                     614.3
Total                                                        31,000.0                  30,992.7
Agreement signing date                           June 2, 1983
First disbursement request                        February 1984
Last disbursement request                        June 1989
Fund availability deadline                        Extended from 12/31/87 to 6/30/89



- 21 -
ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED COSTS OF CREDIT 1282 MLI - IDA
Estimated       Actual     EDM's
costs in      costs in   particiation
thousands     thousands  in projects in
of SDRs       of SDRs millions of CFAF
CategQy
1. Civil engineering work          1,420          1,656        79
2. Supply and installation
a. reinforcement,                5,170          6,218         2
extension of Bamako
electric and tele-
communications
network
b. Urgent work                   1,530          1,869
Bamako water supply
3. Restoration of Dar               420            657          -
Salam plant
4. Expert, consulting              6,430          5,966         3
and training services
5. Equipment: tools,                770           1,221        17
vehicles, office equipment
6. Technical, tariff,              1,820          2,175         -
institutional, planning
studies and consumer survey
7. Advance refinancing              830            629
8. Incidental                      2,010            -           -
TOTAL in thousands of SDRs         20,400        20,400        101
(Total in thousands of dollars)   (24,000)
Signing date for credit 1282 MLI October 14, 1982
First disbursement               8/12/1983
Last disbursement                6/30/1989
Credit closing date    Extended from 12/31/1987 to 12/31/1988
NB: Estimated costs reflect the amendment letter of 9/28/1984 which changes the amounts allotted
to categories 3 and 8.



- 22 -
3.   Disbursements
W~A
The baseline data include the comparison of the projected and actual disbursement
profiles.
Disbursements were spread out from 1983 to 6/30/1989, as against the projected 1983
to 1987 period.
The first disbursements actually began in 1984, with a one-year delay (of the SDR
811.9 thousand disbursed in 1983, SDR 628.6 thousand represents the advance) and
essentially involve technical assistance and the use of consultants to prepare the bidding
documents.
Disbursements accelerated a great deal in 1985 and 1986, reaching 73 percent of the
credit at end 1986, in comparison with the projected 79.4 percent. They corresponded
to the virtual completion of the work covered by the Project.
A considerable deceleration began in 1987, when new actions were undertaken, with
the resulting gap in disbursements due to their preparation:
-    Renovation and reinforcement of the Bamako electrical network
-    Customer management action for more effective collection
-    Construction of a water activity building.
The fund availability date was postponed from 12/31/1987 until 6/30/1989, or a delay of 1.5
years.
Nonetheless, on 12/31/1987, 94.0 percent of the credit funds were ordered and 97.6 percent
were committed.
The balance of the credit was absorbed during the period 1988-1989 by isolated activities for
training and improvement of the customer management function.
O=PEC FUN
As indicated in paragraph 2 above, OPEC Fund disbursements were suspended around the end
of 1986.
The following amounts were disbursed at that time:
SUS 3.0 M for Loan 241 P (S6vare Plant: $US 3.70 M)
SUS 0.1 M for Loan 376 P (BKO DWS    $US 2.75 M)
Disbursements for the balances of virtually all of the contracts resumed in May 1989 when the
Bamako drinking water supply sites were completed, with delays in excess of one year over
the contractual periods.
In light of the exchange rate for the dollar beginning in May 1989, Loans 241 P and 376 P
will generate an effective balance of nearly $US 250,000, contrary to what was feared in early
1989 when there was insufficient financing. Nonetheless, orders from the Bamako drinking
water supply enterprises were reduced in the meantime by nearly CFAF 34 M in comparison
with the base contracts.



- 23 -
4.   Chanie in the scope of the project
The essential spirit of the project was followed. Below are the only significant events that
changed its scope.
i)   The study for extension of the Sotuba plant was discontinued in 1985 at the end of
phase one (feasibility study). Consequently, phase two, pertaining to the execution
studies, did not take place. The extension of Sotuba, whose commissioning was
scheduled for 1989, was actually abandoned in favor of the Manantali project for the
following reasons:
The extension of Sotuba (5 to 7 MW) only made it possible to cover Bamako
demand increases for 2 to 3 years at the growth rate registered in 1985.
The cost per KWH produced by the extension of Sotuba was found to be
excessive: CFAF 31, in comparison with CFAF 14 for Manantali plant output
(Cost of Sotuba 2 investment: CFAF 10 to 12 billion).
The Manantali project, with its 200 installed MW and 800 GWH of productible,
should be able meet demand until the year 2000. Furthermore, it was scheduled
for commissioning by 1992.
Finally, the investment for the Manantali dam was already undertaken at the
time: complete flooding was expected to occur in 1987.
Since that time it was noted that:
Use of Dar Salam plant thermal power was increasing as of 1987;
Energy demand increased at relatively high rates (8 to 9 percent per year from
1984 to 1988) despite the expected softening;
Mali's hydraulicity is average: 60 GWH of productible for Selingue during the
difficult months of the first half of the year, as compared to the projected
average hydraulicity of 90 GWH.
-The Bamako - Manantali connection could not be made until 1995 at the earliest.
Although the investment cost is high, it can be concluded a posteriori that the extension
of Sotuba recommended by EDM turned out to be a judicious choice in an uncertain
future: hydraulicity, evolution of demand, commissioning date for Manantali. At least
several supplementary 6 MW thermal units will be needed at the Dar Salam plant in the
nineties, with a corollary of diesel fuel imports, which are costly in terms of foreign
exchange for a landlocked country.
ii)   Voluntary actions were undertaken in 1987 to make collections more effective,
primarily through the structural reform implemented for the customer management
function and its computerization.
iii)  Construction on a building for water activities was started in 1988 to make this sector
more autonomous.
v) [sic)    The high value of the US dollar directly influenced the cost of the project, primarily the
values of IDA and OPEC Fund credit.



- 24 -
iv) [sic]    EDM rejected the biomass solution for electricity production at Mopti for the following
reasons:
The prototype aspect of the solution at this power level
The high investment cost
The permanent risk of an insufficient supply of rice husks.
The conventional thermal variation was thus chosen. The balance of 241 P financing
which the OPEC Fund granted in 1981 for the Mopti plant led to loan 376 P signed in
June 1985 and intended for urgent work under phase two of the Bamako water supply.
v) [sic]    Due to cost overruns in the rehabilitation of the Dar Salam plant, the number of villas
to be built for the technical assistance team was reduced from 12 to 6 (CCCE Credit).
vi)   The technical assistant for electrical production left a position vacant upon departure in
February 1986 (CCCE financing), and the water instruction officer left the CPP to
operate the Bamako pumping station (FAC financing).
5.   Execution schedule
The project execution schedule calls for the following specific comments:
i)    Technical assistants were hired between March 1983 and April 1984.
ii)   The construction of villas to accommodate the technical assistants on their arrival was
completed in 1987.
iii)  The award and execution of contracts for reinforcing and extending the Bamako
electrical network were delayed due to problems in coordinating 7 different service
providers.
iv)   The contract for the Mali Electricity Sector Master Plan was signed in February 1985.
The final report was not filed until February 1988, or 2 years late, and thus lost a great
deal of its importance for the preparation of the Second Electricity Project. Indeed, by
end 1985, EDM had engaged in identifying and partially justifying future investment
projects.
v)   Studies pertaining to the institutional reform and sector manpower were late in starting,
primarily because of differences of opinion between IDA and the beneficiary.
vi)   The user survey operation was a few months late primarily due to problems in assessing
the work to be done for this type of operation.
vii)  The construction of a new Computer Service building, covered by a contract signed in
January 1985, was not completed until 1988. The main reasons were delays in securing
land, and the choice of the type of foundations, which had to be negotiated with the
company. The type of foundations also had to be selected based on a soil study that
was conducted after the competitive bidding for the construction began.



- 25 -
vii) [sic] The Phase Two the Bamako drinking water supply sites were completed over one year
late, partially because OPEC Fund disbursements were suspended after the contracts
were signed. Disbursements resumed in May 1989 after the work was accepted.
viii)    The contract for the construction of a building to house water activity technical services
was signed in 1988. The work will be completed after June 30, 1989, the deadline for
availability of IDA Credit funds. The work not covered by Credit 1282 MLI
disbursement will be refinanced by a new 1998 MLI credit.
ix)    The execution of the telecommunications contract was delayed considerably, partially
because of the supplier and partially because of the changes in frequency made during
the life of the contact. The equipment will be assembled after 6/20/1989 and will be
refinanced under the new 1998 MLI credit.
6.   CQnttacting
There is no need for specific comments on contracting.
V.   PROJECT EXECUTION
EDM was the executing agency for the project, which was based primarily on the supply,
institutional technical assistance and the use of consultants for short missions.
Institutional technica assistanc
Thirteen Technical Assistants (one Canadian and 12 French citizens, a variety of statuses, 4
different suppliers) were hired between March 1983 and April 1984, in a firm that had only
about twenty managers at the time. EDM did not have the capacity then to manage a team of
this size. The initial project, which stipulated a supply of 24 consultants, fortunately had been
rejected.
Although negotiated with the beneficiary company, the supply of technical assistance was
perceived as imposed because it was a condition for Project effectiveness. Furthermore,
investors supply financing to a Government and not directly to the company.
The absence of housing for the technical assistance team on their arrival and the lack of
professional equipment added to the integration problems inherent in expatriation. A minimum
amount of operating resources is required. On the other hand, for the action to be sustained,
the expatriates must be able to upgrade the company's own means. Finally, because they are
guests, expatriates must be flexible and understanding in approaching a culture different from
their own. This takes time. They must above all feel that they are an integral part of the host
company, rather than outsiders. it ensues that the role entrusted to expatriates (in the
organizational structure, under substitution or as advisers) is not a fundamental problem.
The results expected of EDM and technical assistance were too ambitious, on the one hand,
and were expected immediately, on the other hand. The Company's multiple partners also did
not facilitate matters.  Of course, management charts and performance indicators are
necessary, but must be developed using means that are available or that can be reasonably



-26 -
implemented and developed. Indicators must also be measurable. We now know how difficult
it is to measure an organizational change.
An organizational change cannot be ordered, and the methods used to make the change are as
important, if not more important, than the intended change itself. The preparatory phase for
the change is thus vital: it requires time, establishment of a confident environment that does
not give rise to conflicts, support from all persons involved, and the permanent willingness to
achieve the goal. In this respect, the structural reform EDM conducted for the customer
management function beginning in 1987 is a good example.
The aspects discussed above can explain the problems encountered during project start-up. A
negotiated conception of technical assistance, clear objectives for terms of reference covering
a specific period, their flexible implementation and a catalyzing role for investors and external
partners are all necessary to ensure the success of such an operation.
At the end of the project, the overall result was quite satisfactory: higher-quality water and
electricity service in Bamako, improved production throughout the country, implementation
of budgets, EDM actions beginning in 1987 to improve collection, management, network
yield, the creation of an internal audit division, comruter development, etc. The above-
mentioned actions must be reinforced.
Privileged relationships have been cultivated progressively since 1984 between EDM and an
EDF Center. This resulted in the signing of an exchange agreement between two firms having
the same concerns, and at the human level. This type of collaboration can be very beneficial
for both parties.
2.   Inroved manaement
BudLyet
A budgetary system was rapidly implemented at the start of the Project with the active
participation of all functional and operational services.
Advantages: the realization that optimal use must be made of limited resources in terms of
capital base, combined purchases of spare parts for thermal units and distribution equipment,
progress-oriented actions primarily in outstations that underwent constant and programmed
gains in service continuity.
Limits to the system established: due to the absence of significant cash resources, operators
cannot always be hired, and operating procedures cannot be effectively applied. Moreover,
the considerable delay between the decision to make a purchase and the actual purchase makes
it difficult to monitor progress efficiently and dynamically without an appropriate information
system.
The new accounting system, with its auxiliary applications (implementation undertaken during
the project) will partially relieve the above-mentioned constraints.



- 27 -
Beginning in late 1985, EDM had identified and partially justified all investments included in
the Second Electricity Project, although the final report on the Master Plan study was not filed
until 1988.
Supply and demand projections for the Bamako interconnected system have been regularly
prepared. In 1984, EDM projected a hydroelectric energy deficit in the late eighties. Studies
conducted in 1987 and 1988 by EDM indicated that at least one supplementary 6 MW thermal
unit would be needed in Dar Salam in 1991 pending the commissioning of a new hydroelectric
source. These conclusions were confirmed by "the study of transition thermal power for the
Bamako system' conducted by a consultant in 1989.
Personnel (recruitn_ent. trainiun. combined nature of activities)
A hiring freeze was effective until 1987. After that time, considerable efforts were implemented to
upgrade employee qualifications and to restore school balances.
On 6/31/1989, the overall work force included 1157 employees, in comparison with 806 permanent
employees in 1980 (not including temporary staff). There have been no temporary employees since
January 1, 1989.
Management school personnel increased from 20 in 1980 to 61 on 6/30/1989. Their share in the
overall number almost tripled during that period. Supervisory school accounted for 577 employees
on 6/30/1989, or 50 percent of the overall number. The manpower study conducted in early 1989
indicates the projected flows for the next few years and recommends hiring at the minimum
Professional Aptitude Certificate level.
A progressive segregation was applied to water and electricity technical activities beginning in 1986.
The water sector was given material resources, although still insufficient, and its management was
reinforced considerably (7 managers on 6/30/1989, in comparison with 2 in 1985).
The customer management function is and will remain the company's priority. Created in 1986, the
customer management division, a functional and operational organ of General Administration, had
35 employees on 6/30/89, including 5 managers and 17 supervisors. It also oversees the 149
employees distributed among 9 customer service offices in Bamako.
The activities of the CPP, a development and training organ for the company's supervisory and
executing employees, were expanded during the period. Performance for 1988 was satisfactory: 339
company employees attended the CPP, representing a volume of 4,000 employee weeks.
Outside training focused initially on managers and was found to be inadequate given the scope of the
project. The program was financed by the FAC (counterparts of technical assistants and water sector
technical specialists), by IDA (approximately CFAF 150 M, including a considerable share for ESE
tuition) and CCCE (about CFAF 60 M in the thermal production sector).
Training should be a future project priority, on the one hand, to improve qualifications, and, on the
other hand, to ensure that the planned organizational changes will be successful. Furthermore, the
creation of a Human Resources Administration will make it possible to initiate collective personnel



- 28 -
management and to make optimal use of the tool the CPP constitutes, based on more effective
identification of training needs.
Customer management activity
The decision to perform the Bamako user survey, which was conducted by a consultant, was
undoubtedly made prematurely, especially because very few fiaudulent connections were found.
Indeed, this survey was taken in 1984 - 1985 before the current organization of the customer function
was in place. As a result, the company did not have the resources to benefit optimally from this
operation.
As the result of EDM's inefficient energy invoice collection operations, especially for individual
invoices, the company decided in 1987 to have an outside consultant study the customer management
function.
A profound structural reform ensued, based on the following principles:
-    Creation of a single organization responsible for all customer management operations. The
customer management division of the General Administration plays a functional and operational
role with respect to the subdivisions, which are the points of contact for household customers;
-    Computerization of customer functions
Collection operations on microcomputers during phase one (operational at the
beginning of 1989), on the one hand, to ensure that they are reliable, and, on the
other hand, to make adjustments (daily and systematic comparison of cash
movements, customer accounts, computers and accounting);
Other functions during phase two requiring a complete revamping of the
customer file structure.
-    Giving subdivisions, which are close to the customers, more responsibility through the
progressive decentralization of activities such as statements, connections, transfers, meter
changes and, at the same time, formalization of procedures in favor of short and reliable
circuits.
We note that the organizational change was successful and sets a good example in several respects:
-    The change was not ordered. It required a minimum of consensus, and time prior to
implementation. The dynamics created as the result of the reorganization alone made it
possible to obtain high collection rates from individuals.
-    The change was backed by considerable investments (microcomputers), as well as material
resources necessary to achieve the goals (vehicles, furniture, etc.).
-    At each stage of computerization, time had to be allowed for assimilation and reinforcement
of learning before proceeding to the subsequent stage.



- 29 -
A "zero point" was reached at the end of 1987 for MT customers based on a detailed analysis of all
invoices. The anomaly statement led to an action plan intended to restore the meters to par:
calibration, verification of readout coefficients, checking of installed condensers and measurement
of reagent, identification of materials needed for meter replacement and standardization. During
phase two, the equipment ordered under IDA financing was installed. Procedures were developed
to maintain technically-reliable metering operations. A customer management division manager was
also assigned the task of overseeing contractual and administrative matters.  Internal liaison
procedures still must be formalized between the partners involved with MT customers. As the result
of these actions, the Bamako network's productivity increased 1.2 points.
For BT customers, a vast operation was undertaken in 1987. This effort requires consistency and
time. A vehicle was made available to the metering service for systematic calibration of all BT
meters. All meters in existence must normally be verified approximately every 4 years. Nearly
1,500 meters must be replaced annually. The search for fraud also is an ongoing activity, and
readout quality has been monitored since 1989. Significant results in network productivity will not
be visible for this type of customer for a few years.
Problems in metering water production in Bamako persisted until 1988. Additional meters will be
necessary for the accurate monitoring of operating values. Float cocks were rehabilitated in storage
areas, improving the service in the neighborhoods involved.
For water distribution in Bamako, an action plan was developed in early 1988, and is in the process
of execution:  identification of valves, updating of maps, monitoring of consumption by
neighborhood. For each user, there is a check for proper connection, registration and billing, and
the meter is checked to ensure that it is suitable for the user's needs. As is the case for electricity,
these activities require time and resources.
Accounting system. internal audit. computers
A technical assistant was hired at the end of 1987 to establish an internal audit division responsible
for conducing ongoing checks on the accuracy of information supplied to the General Administration
and to third parties.
Priority activities are in the financial and accounting fields:  account justification support,
development of procedures, primarily concerning cash, consulting and recommendations.
The Division was reinforced in 1988 with two managers, a supervisory employee and a secretary,
making it possible to develop s medium-term action plan. Still, not all of the procedures could be
implemented and applied at the same time. It will take an estimated 2 to 3 years for the division's
financial and accounting audit functions to become fully developed.
The Chief Accountant position, vacant since 1987, was filled in July 1989. This coincides with the
new accounting system which was received over one year late because of intertial problems with the
consultant and inaccurate specifications. Some computer and accounting aspects were reviewed with
the consultant during the contract execution period.
The computer work load increased considerably beginning in 1988, although the work force remained
unchanged, with the new accounting system, collection software package, installation of
microcomputers in the subdivisions, auxiliary accounting applications such as suppliers and fixed asset
files, as well as maintenance.



- 30 -
This load will continue to be heavy in 1990 and 1991 with phase two of customer management
computerization (customer file consultation in the subdivisions), continuation of activities under way
(discharge of supplier application, procedure for fixed asset records) and implementation of new
applications (inventory, budget) which, in the long run, will lead to analytical accounting.
Computer guidelines are being developed and will be sent to the investors. These guidelines
recommend, in the near future, acquisition of a more powerful computer and reinforcement of the
existing microcomputers; they also emphasize the importance of the appropriate training for computer
service staff. The structure recommended for this service in the manpower study must be
implemented for maintenance on these tools.
3.   Material components
Dar Salam Plant ((CCE and IDA financing)
For the mechanical equipment, additional work was identified following the disassembly of the
thermal units. The cost for the rehabilitation alone came to FF 15.4 M, in comparison with the FF
13.6 M projected initially in the contract, or a 14 percent overrun.
Additional supplies not covered by the contract were delivered for the Dar Salam plant: a lot of
spare parts, a centrifuge and an oil purifier. The actual final cost of the lot of mechanical equipment
was FF 16.7 M, oi an overrun of 23 percent over the initial contract.
The purchase of spare parts for the regional thermal units and the transfer of one 1 MW unit from
Dar Salam to Kayes for a total cost of FF 1.4 M also constituted additional costs.
Because these overruns substantially changed the projected costs of the CCCE agreement components,
it was decided to reduce the number of villas to be built for the technical assistance team to 6.
The control room equipment for the Dar Salam plant was built under IDA financing at a total cost
of FF 5.1 M as against initial contract projections, or a 19 percent overrun. An amendment for this
purpose was signed for the additional work: outgoing metering 15, transfer of orders from the 30
KV station to the control room, metering on the Kati line and miscellaneous minor work.
The work was monitored for a total of FF 1.1 M as against the non-revised amount of FF 1.0 M.
The total rehabilitation thus amounted to FF 19.1 M, or CFAF 955 M for 18 installed MW.
Mopti - Sevard Ulant
The deadlines for this work were virtually met, taking into account the incident that occurred while
the step-up transformers were being transported by truck.
There was a 2 percent cost overrun for the lot of generating units, due partially to the purchase of
additional measuring equipment (actual cost: CFAF 865 M).
Costs for the lot including site development and construction of various buildings were exceeded by
4 percent, which is acceptable for this type of work (actual cost: CFAF 260 M).



- 31 -
Engineering and monitoring costs were overrun by 28 percent because the consulting engineer had
to extend his stay on site due to a transformer incident (actual cost: $US 240,000, equivalent to
nearly CFAF 90 M).
In addition to the fuel allocation of CFAF 33 M, the Mopti plant cost a total of CFAF 1.125 M for
2,250 installed KW, plus engineering and monitoring costs. The total US dollar equivalent amounts
to $US 3,662,557.42, yielding a final balance of $US 37,442.58 for loan 241 P.
Finally, the construction of a new plant at Mopti is the first thermal energy investment made under
outside financing in a region in over 25 years.
Reinforcement and extension of Bamako electricity distribution (IDA)
The main lesson to be learned from this component is how complex the task of coordination was,
because each of the 8 lots of the competitive bidding were awarded to the lowest bidder. Indeed, 7
contracts were signed with different service providers, including 5 supply contracts. For example,
there were contingencies in the supply of concrete supports for the installation company from the
beginning, resulting in a work stoppage. The provisional acceptance of the work was thus announced
in early 1987, although virtually all of the contracts had been signed at the end of 1984. The cost
of this component was included in the initial package, i.e., approximately CFAF 970 M in supplies
and CFAF 630 M in assembly.
The supply of connection equipment completed the electrification of seven peripheral neighborhoods
for just under CFAF 80 M.
The purchase of network equipment for CFAF 430 M made it possible to continue the most urgent
renovation work, either with the company's own means, or using outside enterprises.
In this way, contracts were signed in 1987 for the renovation of the Badalabougou 30/14 KV station,
about one hundred MT/BT stations and some MT lines. The work performed cost to nearly CFAF
250 M.
In this case, the flexibility of the IDA credit which made it possible to perform this type of urgent
operation must be mentioned, because it led to substantially improved service quality and continuity
for the capital.
The acquisition or various tools and equipment also helped provide employees with the resources they
needed.
Baako wt comon  (IDA - OPEC Fund - CCCE)
i)   The first urgent phase of the Bamako drinking water supply work (DWS) was financed by IDA
and concerned:
-    Complete rehabilitation of the drainage station equipment and partial rehabilitation of
operating treatment units;
-    Rehabilitation of various recovery stations (Senou, Missira, Camp des Gardes) and
equipment of reservoirs.



- 32 -
-    Supply and installation of mains (700 mm and DN 400 mm) which gave customers in
the Northeast of the city better service by eliminating bottlenecks and improving
reservoir operations;
The work was covered by 4 lots (treatment station, recovery stations, network supply, network
pipeline installation). The contracts were signed in early 1985, and all of the work was
completed in early 1986 at a total cost of approximately CFAF 800 M. Network installation
was slightly late in starting due to the delay in the pipeline supply: both installation and
supply could have been covered by a sirgle lot.
The above-described work was described as urgent in a report filed in 198L as a follow-up to
the Bamako drinking water supply Master Plan submitted in 1980. Accordingly, it was
performed 4 years later, increasing treatment capacity to 54,000 m3 per day.
ii)   The second urgent phase of the Bamako drinking water supply work was decided on in 1985,
following phase one. The purpose of this phase was to increase drinking water production to
72,000 m3 per day to improve customer service and meet demand until 1990.
The work was covered by 3 lots:
-    Lot Bi: development of production structures based on OPEC financing.
ThIis lot covered the supply and installation of pumping equipment by reinforcing the
capacity for drainage and treatment, MT and BT electrical equipment, arrangement of
water station intake manifolds and pump discharge leaders and the supplies needed to
rehabilitate the accelerator [sic].
-    Lot B2: assistance in rehabilitating the accelerator [sic] using IDA financing, with an
EDM team performing the work.
-    Lot A: supply and installation of secondary and tertiary pipelines and accessories, as
well as the supply of connection equipment under OPEC Fund financing.
The contracts were signed at the end of 1986 when the OPEC fund suspended its
disbursements. The company only collected the start-up advance for Lot B1. The work was
completed at beginning 1989 with a considerable delay, while OPEC Fund disbursements
resumed.
The means the companies implemented were found to be insufficient, primarily for Lot Bi,
in which pipeline DN 1000 was connected by another firm. The latter service was self-
financed by EDM.
The engineering and monitoring mission for this project was financed by IDA and extended
until May 1988, when EDM assumed responsibility for the follow-up.
Final payments were as follows on 6/30/89, on a provisional basis:
-    Lot A: CFAF 639 M, including CFAF 134 M in connection equipment;
-    Lot BI: CFAF 217 M under the contract and CFAF 12 M for additional work;



- 33 -
-    Lot B2: CFAF 1I M;
-    Connection 0 1000: CFAF 9 M all taxes included, or a total of CFAF 888 M.
The exchange rate for the US dollar when the disbursements were suspended threatened a
considerable overrun in the financing package. This exchange rate recovered in May 1989,
when the disbursements were resumed, generating a provisional balance for loan 376 P of
approximately $US 210,000. The installed pipeline was shortened from 55.1 km to 45.8 km.
iii)  StIll in the spirit of ensuring consistent investments in the water sector and preparing for a
future specific project, a feasibility study costing CFAF 64 M began in 1987 for the
rehabilitation and extension of the drinking water supply for Bamako and the 5 outstations:
Mopti, Tombouctou, Nioro, Kati and Sikasso.
Investment needs are great, considering the delays in the water sector: CFAF 4 to 5 billion
for Bamako and nearly CFAF 9 billion for the 5 outstations during phase one.
The amount indicated for Bamako was deemed acceptable in light of the needs, and was
deemed excessive the provinces. EDM thus reduced the investments in the 5 outstations.
For progress to be made in the studies, geophysical surveying had to be performed, and
drilling work had to be done in the outstations to ensure available flows.
An advance was thus requested from IDA in April 1988 for the preparation of the detailed
studies and competitive bidding documents for Bamako, as well as for the geophysical
surveying work. No response was received for this request. Furthermore, IDA, which
initially piloted the preliminary work for a future project, had not scheduled a preappraisal
mission on 6/30/1989.
iv)   Other investors expressed interest in participating in financing of a future water project:
Danish cooperation (Sikasso), ADB and CCCE.
The CCCE will supply initial financing of CFAF 950 M during the second half of 1989, to
cover the following components:
-    Work to double the pipeline over the Bamako bridge, an absolute priority for improving
service for customers on the right bank, which is a heavily expanding area. The
detailed preliminary project and preparation of bidding documents, the files for which
were available on 6/30/1989, were financed partially by IDA.
-    For Bamako, engineering studies including support for drafting of contracts, investment
work as follows:
Increase in treatment capacity: 750 e3 per hour
Construction of a 3,500 n3 reservoir on the right bank
Reinforcement of primary and secondary networks
Miscellaneous supplies (connections, radios, etc.).



- 34 -
For Mopti - Sevare and Tombouctou, geophysical surveying work, non-equipped
exploitation drilling and engineering for the rehabilitation and extension of the DWS of
these cities.
Tariff study.
An expert appraisal conducted in May 1989 by an operator - consultant at the Bamako
treatment plant yielded a plant treatment capacity of 3,000 m3 per hour, i.e., a maximum of
72,000 m3 per day without a sufficient reserve for day-to-day maintenance operations. It was
also found that these rates cannot be increased by using a flocculation additive. Finally, the
perspective of 75,000 me per day in 1991 led to the decision to extend treatment capacity
immediately. The first CCCE financing was granted on this basis.
Civil engineering comnonent
For the new office construction, the largest projects were the "operations," "computer" and "water'
buildings in Bamako.
The old offices of the electricity operations services were run down and unsuitable for public service.
The construction of a new building was begun in 1984 at a cost of CFAF 121 M, or a 9 percent
overrun of the initial contract amount due to the partial air conditioning of the offices and the
development of the approach.
The computer service was located in the tiny offices of the General Administration. A new building
was started on the site in 1986, also intended to house some technical departments cramped into the
existing building. The construction cost was CFAF 233 M, or a 55 percent overrun of the initial
contract amount (CFAF 150 M).
This overrun is due:
31 percent to the choice of well foundations recommended by the soil study for land prone to
flooding (rather than floating foundations as requested in the competitive bidding documents);
15 percent to outside developments (parking lots, septic tank and fence) not stipulated in the
contract;
30 percent to ovrk comected with the outside of the building: multi-layer seal and self-
washing surface;
23 percent to inside developments: additional plumbing and lighting, computer room,
aluminum frame.
This new building has already turned out to be too small due to the reinforced management of
General Administration services under the management improvement effort: creation of a project
division, an internal audit division, reinforcement of the Studies and Programs, Production and
Distribution Services and the Customer Management Division, planned reinforcement of the
Administrative and Social Service.



- 35 -
The experience gained during the construction of these buildings has made it possible to pay special
attention to the architectural studies for the future water se^tor building. The degree of detail
obtained has allowed a better control of costs during execution.
Nonetheless, an overrun of nearly CFAF 25 M over the initial contract (CFAF 300 M) is projected
as of 6/30/89, CFAF 14 M of which is due to the construction of outside rain gutters, and CFAF ll
M of which is due to the redesign of foundations according to the soil study recommendations.
It was consequently found tha. soil studies should always be performed before the competitive bidding
process is initiated for the construction.
The work on the water complex (4 buildings for the headquarters, distribution operating services, a
warehouse and a major maintenance shop) will be completed after 6/30/1989 and refinanced under
the new 1998 MLI credit.
In addition to the projects listed below, other civil engineering work was financed with IDA credit
amounting to nearly CFAF 130 M:
Development of CPP, water laboratory for training and CPP fence;
Construction of a building for the electricity meter service;
Construction of 2 new subdivisions to accommodate customers in Bamako;
Development of the Bamako subdivisions with a view towards computerization.
This work has largely contributed to reinforcing the management of these services.
The construction of 6 villas for the technical assistance team was financed by the CCCE for a total
cost of CFAF 175 M. The actual work amounted to CFAF 151 M as against the CFAF 142 M
projected in the initial contract, or an overrun of 6 percent. The villas were delivered late, in early
1987. Other work amounting to CFAF 13 M was required to facilitate the accommodation of the
future occupants: air conditioning, garages and outside developments.
An institutional study was conducted in 1985 on the feasibility of a unified electrical system and the
creation of two separate companies for water and electricity.
A manpower study was begun in early 1989, primarily covering training and technical assistance
needs for the next 5 years for the entire electrical and water sectors. The final report was filed in
June 1989 and was issued to investors for opinions.
Technical study components
The contract for the extension of the Sotuba hydroelectric plant (addition of 5 to 7 MW) included the
feasibility study during phase one and execution studies during phase two. This contract was
interrupted at the end of phase one even though the extension was justified, for the following reasons:
i)   The commissioning of Manantali was scheduled for 1990;
ii)   The extension of Sotuba only covered the increase in demand in Bamako for 2 to 3 years at
the rates observed at that time (8 to 9 percent per annum);



- 36 -
iii) The price per KWH produced by the extension of Sotuba was not competitive in comparison
with Manantali.
If this increase appeared to be justified in 1985, it was not in 1989 due to the observed facts.
Furthermore, despite the high cost of the extension (approximately CFAF 12 billion), we can
reasonably doubt the need for an immediate undertaking considering the thermal investment
programming for the upcoming years (for the adjusted stock of existing facilities, one 6 MW
unit in 1990, 1992, one unit every year beginning in 1994 pending the commissioning of a
new hydroelectric source, and under the assumption of a 6 percent increase in demand in
Bamako.
The engineering for the Bamako - Segou THT line started in 1984. A report on the feasibility
of the project has been available since 1979. After seeking financing, the competitive bidding
for the studies and construction follow-up was launched at end 1987, and those for
construction, at the beginning of 1988. The financing agreements with ACDI, KFW and BEI
were signed in 1988. The contract for the supply and assembly of the stations was entered
into in July 1989. The awarding process was under way for the line assembly contract on
6/30/1989.
EDM is responsible for the execution of the line as the delegated implementing agency. An
ad hoc committee was created to analyze the bids, chaired by the General Manager of EDM.
The Director of DNHE and a Government Commissioner are members of the Committee.
General studies component
The Bamako user survey, the implementation of a new accounting product and the
reinfcrcement of methods were covered in the chapter on improving management.
The organization of a preventive maintenance system should be continued during the future
project, provided that the various services, metering and operation, have sufficient resources.
The implementation of a division in charge of specialized maintenance (150 - 30 - 15 KV
protection) will also be necessary. This may be initiated with the coordination study projected
for late 1989 - early 1990.
A product was available on microcomputer since the beginning of 1989 to optimize electrical
production in the Bamako system, in light of the increasing reliance on thermal production at
Dar Salam to meet demand. The cost will be CFAF 37 M including the supply of the
microcomputer.
The Final Report on the Mali Electricity Sector Master Plan was filed in 1988, with a
significant delay. It took stock of potential hydroelectric sites: Manantali, extension of Felou,
Kenie, and pointed out the risks of failure of the Bamako supply beginning in 1990. On the
request of the investors at the December 1988 meeting, an additional study on transition
thermal power at Bamako was deemed necessary. The conclusions, submitted in June 1989,
indicated a high rate of return (45 percent) for the installation of 2 additional 6 MW units at
Dar Salam beginning in 1990, under the assumption of a 6 percent growth in demand. The
commissioning of additional thermal power in 1990 is justified by the partial shutdown of
Sotuba for renovation. The latter only accounts for 5 MW of Bamako's total of 77 installed



- 37 -
MW, which clearly shows how fragile the system is. Moreover, as of the writing of this
report (7/24/1989), Selingu6 is still at the critical level and only turbines on a supplementary
basis (8 MW during peak hours). Under these conditions, the installation of an additional unit
at Dar Salam is more than aleatory for 1990.
The tariff study conducted at the start-up of the project led to a tariff increase in November
1985: + 35 percent for electricity and + 200 percent for water to the final consumer. The
sale price at S0Iingue increased at the same time from CFAF 20 to CFAF 25.2 per KWH
essentially to cover debt servicing (arrears and outstanding debts).
This price was expected to decrease subsequently with the increased purchases at Selingue and
the settlement of the debt, and, over time, to become aligned with economic cost prices.
The feasibility study for the renovation of the Felou hydroelectric plant was financed by IDA
at end 1985 - beginning 1986. The execution studies and the dam work were financed under
a new CCCE agreement signed in April 1987 for CFAF 150 M.
The rehabilitation work on the dam was completed in July 1987 with exemplary speed. The
flooding after the openings at Manantali indeed risked compromising the project. Renovation
work on Felou and the Paparah thermal plant is in progress under a CCCE agreement signed
in October 1988.
The execution studies for the renovation of Sotuba are also in progress under a study fund
established by the CCCE under the Ministry of the Plan. The feasibility study was initially
financed by IDA in 1987. The renovation work is scheduled to be completed on April 1, 1990
under CCCE financing.
V. INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
There were differences of opinion between the Government and IDA, not on the principle of
segregating water and electricity activities, but on the application schedule.
Energie du Mali wanted a progressive and coherent segregation process in line with resources
available and those that could reasonably be expected. During the project execution period (1983 -
1989), the following notable progress can be cited:
-    The water section was made into a division within Bamako operations in 1985. Its authority
is limited to Bamako distribution.
-    The water service was created in 1986: it has operational and functional authority over the
entire territory, for both production and distribution.
-    Progressive reinforcement of the management and training program from 1985 to 1989.
-    Leasing of a building in 1987 to accommodate all water sector employees, and to establish the
physical segregation from the Bamako electricity services.
-    Construction in 1988 of a functional complex for the water service: headquarters, distribution
employee base, major maintenance shop and warehouse.



- 38 -
The technical segregation of activities was thus effective at the end of the project. The segregation
was also ensured on the accounting level through a choice of distribution codes.
A study was conducted on the viability of the water sector. In any event, the creation of two separate
companies would only be desirable if the following prerequisites were met:
-    Continued reinforcement of EDM  as recommended by the organizational structure and
manpower study;
-    Continued reinforcement of the technical water sector;
-    Continued improvement of EDM management, decision aids, to have reliable tools, primarily
inventory management, fixed assets, customer management and accounting;
-    Study of the feasibility of maintaining combined activities.
The Supervisory Ministry of State Enterprises and Corporations, in charge of administrative and
management supervision for EDM, was eliminated in Juine 1988. The organizations involved in the
electricity and water sector (EDM, OERHN and DNHE) will now be coordinated solely by the
Ministry of Industrial Development and Tourism, which in June 1981 became the Ministry of
Industry, Water and Energy.
The EDM company's terms of reference for the construction work on the Bamako -Segou THT line
were signed in October 1987 with the Ministry of Industrial Development and Tourism. EDM is
consequently acting as the delegated implementing agency. It is responsible for project follow-up,
through a project division created within its own organization for this purpose, and will operate the
works once transferred.
OERHN and EDM signed a letter of understanding in August 1988 for the transfer of personnel. The
EDM/OERHN management contract for operation of the Selingue works and multi-purpose facilities
was signed in June 1989. EDM is primarily responsible for major maintenance and equipment
renewal.
Under this contract, the sale price per KWH will for the time being remain at CFAF 25.2.
According to the new measures, the transfer of personnel will be effective on or before January 1,
1990.
A set of modified draft bylaws has been examined since 1989 at the Government level. The main
changes under consideration are the election of the General Manager and the reinforcement of the
Company's autonomy (a posteriori control). A draft program contract with the Government is also
being examined. Draft water and electricity codes were amended to reflect various observations from
the partners.
VI. OPERATING RESULTS
The project efforts were devoted essentially to Bamako.
The supply was liberalized with the commissioning of Selingue in 1980.



- 39 -
Growth rates in demand fluctuated around 20 percent per year in Bamako until 1983. From 1984
to 1988, these rates stayed at an average of 8 or 9 percent per annum, and can be expected to soften
because existing customers have progressively reached their specific target consumption levels.
Nonetheless, planned connections in progress and extensions for the Second Electricity Project should
generate higher rates of increase than the averages observed in the sub-region.
The quality and continuity of electrical service have improved considerably as the result of the
renovation work undertaken in Bamako during the course of the project. The restructuring of the MT
network and renovation of the BT network planned during the Second Project should further improve
performance, primarily by reducing technical losses.
The use of Dar Salam thermal power to help meet Bamako's demand levels has been necessary since
1987, which is earlier than the various partners had planned. This use of Dar Salam, due to a
productible of only 60 GWH for the first seven months of the year for Selingue during dry years,
increased in 1988 and 1989 (respectively 14.2 GWH and 21.2 GWH in 1987 and 1988), substantially
bidding up the cost per KWH produced for Bamako. EDM's management results were thus absorbed
by fuel expenditures.
The quality of water service in Bamako has also increased considerably thanks to the renovation of
the production facilities and the elimination of the bottlenecks in the primary network. The urgent
work performed during the course of the project increased production capacity to 54,000 m3 per day,
then to 72,000 e3 per day. Investments in the water sector were delayed considerably. The future
project will promote development in sales, with present connection rate being close to 20 percent.
The progress made in management has allowed a substantial and regular increase in thermal
production in the outstations. Indeed, sales increased from 9.5 GWH in 1983 to 12.6 GWH in 1987
with no change in the distribution networks. Water sales, on the other hand, stabilized at about 4.5
million m3 during the course of the project.
VII. FINANCIAL RESULTS
Revenues grew at a regular rate: CFAF 5.7 billion in 1983 to CFAF 12.3 billion in 1988, all taxes
included, nearly 20 percent of which represented the water sector. Tariff increases were implemented
in November 1985: + 35 percent for electricity and + 200 percent for water, on the average.
The main expenditure categories are as follows:
-    Energy purchases at Selingue (half of purchases for the fiscal period);
-    Fuel purchases, approximately 30 percent of purchases for the fiscal period, up sharply due
to the use of thermal power at Dar Salam).
The problems in energy invoice collection also created a difficult cash situation, despite the efforts
to reduce costs and the progress that has been made in collecting from individual customers.
On 12/31/1988, receivables provisionally amounted to:
-    Administration: CFAF 4.8 billion (12.4 billing montfis)
-    Other        CFAF 3.6 billion ( 6.4 filling months)



-40-
This situation reflects structural adjustment loans granted during the project, and the fact that some
arroars were posted in profit and loss accounts (1981-82 fiscal periods).
For the upcoming years, fuel expenditures will increase, primarily bidding up the cost per KWH
produced in Bamako.
On the other hand, improvement in the financial situation will depend to a large extent on the
following three factors:
-    The OERHN purchase price of electricity. The increase in the sale price per KWH in
November 1985 (from CFAF 20 to CFAF 25.2 per KWH) should allow OERHN to repay the
debt according to the regular schedule and to settle its liabilities, which totalled CFAF 7 billion
in 1/1/86. Since the relaxation of OERHN's cash constraints, accelerated by the drop in the
exchange rate for the dollar on the one hand, and the increase in sales to EDM on the other
hand, it should be possible to lower the sale price per KWH.
-    Performance levels registered on collection from individual customers: progress must be
sustained and improved.
-    Reduction of uncollected administrative receivables through the program contract signed
between the Government and EDM.



- 41 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank oans and Credits
Loan/Credit                                         Year of
Title                     Purpos                 APPtQvaI
Credit 1998-MLI     To correct deficiencies in the power   1989         Ongoing
Power II project     sector, to finance part of its
investment program, to coordinate
other donor activity and to develop
and implement a household energy
strategy.
Credit 1938-MLI     To support the public enterprise       1988         Ongoing
Public Enterprise    sector adjustment program of the
Institutional        Government aimed at improving the
Development project   performance of the sector and
reducing its burden on public
finances.
2. Proiet Timgt;
Item                             Date        Date       Date
Planned    Revised    Actual
- Identification                                         01/79
- Preparation                      10/79        -         5/80
- Appraisal                       06/80                  06/80
- Post Appraisal                                         04/81
- Negotiations                     12/81                 05/82
- Board Approval                  07/82                  07/82
- Credit Signature                07/82                  10/82
- Credit Effectiveness            09/82                  05/83
- Loan Completion                  12/87                 06/89
- Loan Closing                     12/87                 12/88



- 42 -
3. Credit Disbursements
Disbursements
($ million)
Bank Fiscal Year           Estimated      Actual     Actual as
and Quarter               Cumulative    Cumulative  % of Estimated
1983    1                    1.0
2                    1.2
3                    1.7           -            -
4                    2.5          0.67         26.8
1984    1                    3.8          0.82         21.6
2                    5.1          0.86         16.9
3                    6.4          2.03         31.7
4                    7.8          2.44         31.3
1985    1                    9.2          3.02         32.8
2                    10.6         3.85         36.3
3                    12.1         4.73         39.1
4                    13.5         6.05         44.8
1986    1                    14.9         8.26         55.4
2                    16.3         9.06         55.6
3                    17.1         11.07        64.7
4                    19.1         12.61        66.0
1987    1                    20.5         13.82        67.4
2                   21.8          16.14        74.0
3                   23.0          16.80        73.0
4                   24.0          17.66        73.6
1988    1                     -           18.41        76.7
2                     -           18.86        78.6
3                     -          20.07         83.6
4                     -          20.79         86.6
1989    1                     -           21.55        89.8
2                     -           21.77        90.7
3                     -          22.44         93.5
4                     -           23.36        97.3



- 43 -
4. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. PEroet Financing
Sour                    Planned           Final      Comments
IDA                 SDR 20,400,000   SDR 20,393,964  SDR 6,036 cancelled.
FAC                  US $4,800,000          -        A grant to be disbursed as an
ongoing subsidy to training and
technical assistance activities
continuing beyond 1989.
CCCE                US $6,000,000    US $6,000,000
OPEC Fund           US $6,450,000    US $6,450,000  Savings when a conventionnal
plant was substituted for the
biomass plant were used for
water supply.
B. Credit Expenditures by Category (SDR '000)
Category              Description            Planned   Actual
1      Construction of office space in Bamako  1,420    1,671
and expansion of training Center
2(a)   Supply and installation of reinforced  5,170    6,218
and extended electrical distribution
system in Bamako and extension of
communication system.
2(b)   Water supply                          1,530    1,869
3      Rehabilitation of Dar-Salam power plant    370   657
4      Consultants, experts, fellowships     6,430    5,924
5      Vehicles, equipment, tools             770     1,235
6      Studies                               1,820    2,192
7      Refund of PPF advance                  830      629
8      Unallocated                           2,060      -
Total                               20,400   20, 394



I
-44 -
5. Status of Covenants
ovean                     Suble                    ComplianceS
Credit Agreement
Section 3.02   The Borrower shall furnish to the      12.31.82     Complied with but
Company appropriate values, e.g. book                only in late 1987.
values, for all public assets operated in
the water sector by the Company.
Section 3.03   The Borrower shall take steps to ensure
the soundness of the water and power
operations of the Company and ensure
that:
(a) for 1982 and onwards its budgets will    1982   Budget allocations
allocate sufficient funds for the payment            remained
of water and electricity services                    inadequate.
(b) Municipalities, State agencies and  9.30.82     Failed to pay on
enterprises have adopted procedures to              time
ensure prompt payment of such bills.
(c) arrears by such entities will not exceed   -    Failed to comply.
three months billings.
Section 3.05   (a) The Borrower shall exchange views               Complied with.
with the Association before contracting
any investment debt exceeding US$1
million.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish its     By March    Complied with.
program of capital investment showing   31 each
sources of funds.                       year.
project Agemn
Section 2.08   The Commpany shall ensure that the tariff   12.31.83  Complied with in
studies shall be completed.                          1985.
Section 3.01   The Company shall take out and maintain             Not complied with
appropriate insurance and furnish a plan             in full. Updating
to update coverage to meet current real              of fixed asset
values of insured assets.                           register not
completed until late
1988, and insuracne
coverage remained
too low.



- 45 -
Section 4.01   The Company shall put into operation a  1.1.84       Keeping of separate
complete system of cost accounting                   accounts delayed to
designed for separate power and water                late 1988. Fixed
financial management and maintain the                asset register
value of assets.                                     completed end
1988.
Section 4.02   The Company shall have all its accounts  Starting    Draft audit report
audited and furnished to the Association  FY1983.    for FY85 received
within four months after tne end of the              January 1988.
fiscal year.
Section 4.03   The Company shall complete a proforma   12.31.83     Not complied with
revaluation of fixed assets appropriate to           until fixed asset
be a basis for rates of return calculations          register completed.
following Association approved methods.
Section 4.04   The Company shall carry out a           1983         Not complied with.
satisfactory program for improvement of              Full reorganization
commercial operations and take steps to              of commercial
reduce consumer arrears to not more than             department still in
three months billings.                               progress.
Section 4.05   The Company shall not incur debt in                  Complied with.
excess of US$1 million for any investnent
in either the water or the power sector
and will furnish each year its three year
program of capital investment showing
proposed sources of funds.
Section 4.06   (a) The Company shall provide itself with            Not complied with
funds from internal sources sufficient to            in most years due to
finance not less than 10% of capital                 high level of
expenditures for its water and power                 arrears.
operations taken separately;
Complied with.
(b) increase electricity tariffs by 8%;  7.1.82      No automatic clause
in the tariff
(c) automatically adjust tariffs to cover            schedule but
changes in the cost of power purchased               average tariff level
and in increases in operating costs due to           probably sufficient.
inflation.
(d) increase water tariffs by 10%.      1.1.83       Complied with.



- 46 -
6. Use of Bak Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle         Staff Weeks                      Comments
Through Appraisal         118.4
Appraisal through                                3.5 staff weeks were spent
on post-appraisal activities.
Board Approval            43.5
Board Approval
through Effectiveness     19.4
Supervision               117.6
TOTAL                     289.9
B. Supervision Missions
Date    No of   Staff    Specialization    Performance    Types of
Persons Days in                     Rating 1/   Problems 2/
Field
12/82     2       7       Fin. Analyst         2         F, M, T.
Power Eng.
05/83     1        2      Power Eng.           2         F, M, T.
06/83     1       10      Power Eng.           2          M, T.
11/83     1       16      Power Eng.           2          M, T.
03/84     2       21      Fin. Analyst         2         M, T, P.
Power Eng.
06/84     2        9      Fin. Analyst         2        F, M, T,P
Power Eng.
11/843/    1       -      Training Spec.



- 47 -
02/854/   1       7       Sanitary Eng.
05/85     2       9       Fin. Analyst        2        F, M, P.
06/853/   1       -       Training Spec.
11/854/   1      '2      Sanitary Eng.
11/85    2        9      Fin. Analyst        3          F, M
Power Eng.
04/86     4       14      Fin. Analyst        3         F, M.
Power Engineer
Economist
Consultant
10/865/   3       9      Fin. Analyst
Power Eng.
Economist
10/864/   1      14      Sanitary Eng.
05/874/    1      7       Sanitary Eng.
07/876/   2               Fin. Analyst
Power Eng.
11/874/   1       7      Sanitary Eng.
11/88    2       10      Fin. Analyst        2          F.M.
Power Eng.
05/89     2       6      Fin. Analyst         2         F. M.
Power Eng.
1/ 1. Problem free or minor problems.
2. Moderate problems.
3. Major problems.
2/ F. Financial.
M. Managerial.
T. Technical.
P. Political.
3/ Training component only. No Form 590 on file.
4/ Water component only. No Form 590 on file.
5/ No Form 590 on file.
6/ Supervision mission took place but BTO Report missing.



