Document of
The World Bank
F>AA  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2954-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
POWER/WATER PROJECT
June 16, 1982
This document has a restricted distributin and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be dfsclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Malian Franc (MF)
MF 1 million       =    US$2,000
US$1                    M MF 500
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE       -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DHE        -   Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie
EDF        -   Electricite de France
EDM        -   Energie du Mali
FAC        -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
OERHN      -   Office pour l'Exploitation des Ressources Hydrauliques
du Haut Niger
OPEC Fund  -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund
for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
POWER/WATER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower;       Republic of Mali
Amount:         SDR 20.4 million (US$24.0 million)
Terms:          Standard
Relending
Terms:          Government to EDM:  5 years grace, 20 years term, 9.6 percent
interest per annum. Foreign exchange risk to be borne by EDM.
Project
Description:   The project is aimed at ensuring extended, more reliable and
cost-effective service, primarily to urban but also to rural
inhabitants through alleviation of the major managerial and
operational constraints of the parastatal water supply and
power utility Energie du Mali (EDM). The project would consist
of: (i) a water supply component consisting of distribution
system works; (ii) construction of facilities, supply of
vehicles, and equipment for EDM operations; and (iii) a power
component, including construction of a 2MW biomass power plant
and distribution system works. To provide support for insti-
tutional rehabilitation, the project would also include
financing of 65 work-years of consultant services for technical
assistance to EDM management and for carrying out operational
and sector policy studies. In addition, technical studies and
preliminary designs would be carried out pursuant to the second
stage of the program. The risks involved in implementation of
the physical aspects of the project are no greater than normal
for works of this type although in the case of the biomass
plant, the final decision to proceed will be made by the
Government and the OPEC Fund on the basis of a study now
underway to resolve problems which have recently developed in
the Cameroon prototype project. If these problems are resolved
satisfactorily and a final decision to proceed is made, we do
not expect the risks to be abnormally high. Institutional
rehabilitation will essentially revolve around the technical
assistance effort, which carries the risk of failure typical
of skills transfer between expatriates and their local
counterparts.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



Estimated Costs:
Foreign     Local        Total
----------US$ million--------
A. Technical Assistance and
Studies 1/                     16.8          0.3        17.1
B. Power Component
Biomass Power Plant               5.0          0.5          5.5
Distribution System Works         5.0          0.6          5.6
Rehabilitation Dar Salam
Power Plant                      3.5           -           3-5
Extension powerline carrier
communication system             0.2           -          0.2
Subtotal          13.7          1.1         14.8
B.  Water Supply System Works         1.7          0.2          1.9
C.  Equipment and Vehicles            0.8           -           0.8
D.  Engineering Fees                  1.4          0.2          1.6
Base Costs                       34.4          1.8         36.2
Contingencies:  Physical          1.7          0.1          1.8
Price            5.1          0.1         5.2
Total Project Costs                  41.2          2.0         43.2
1/   Includes US$0.97 million PPF advance.
Financing Plan:
IDA                              24.0            -         24.0
OPEC Fund                         6.4            -          6.4
CCCE                              6.0            -          6.0
FAC                               4.8            -          4.8
Government (EDM)                 _              2.0         2.0
Total                     41.2            2.0       43.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal year   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual              2.5      5.3     5.7      5.6      4.9
Cumulative          2.5      7.8    13.5    19.1    24.0



- iii -
Rate of Return:      The estimated ERR is 21 percent for investment in the
power distribution system and 11 percent in the biomass
power plant, each representing about 17 percent of total
project costs. The ERR calculated for investment in the
water supply system (about 5 percent of total project
costs) is estimated at 11 percent. The rehabilitation
of the Dar Salaam power plant presents the least-cost
solution to meet reserve requirements; otherwise a new
plant would have to be built. An ERR has not been
calculated on the costs of financing consultant services
for technical assistance.
Appraisal Report:   No. 3227-MLI.
Maps:                IBRD 15332
IBRD 15472






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A POWER/WATER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR20.4 million (US$24.0 million)
on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed
Power/Water Project. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund
for International Development will contribute US$6.4 million equivalent at no
interest for 20 years including a five year grace period. The Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique will contribute US$6.0 million equivalent, at about
5 percent interest for 15 years, including a five year grace period. The
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation will contribute US$4.8 million equivalent on a
grant basis. Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be relent to Energie du Mali
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Two reports entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (3200-MLI) and
"Mali-Special Economic Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan"
(3333-MLI) were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981.
The following paragraphs are based on these reports and findings of World
Bank and IMF economic missions during April-June, August-September, and
November-December, 1981. Annex I gives country data.
Background
3.        Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world.  Covering 1.24
million square kilometers in the middle of sub-Saharan West Africa, seven
million inhabitants had a 1980 GNP per capita of only US$190. It manifests
all the signs of a least developed country, including a subsistence-oriented
economy (85 percent of the population depends on the primary sector), depen-
dence on a few commodity exports, an extremely low rate of domestic savings
(minus 3.6 percent of GDP in 1980), a high population growth rate (2.7 percent),
a low level of education (10 percent literacy), and difficult living conditions
that give a life expectancy of only 43 years.
4.        There are serious structural constraints to growth in Mali.  Exploi-
tation of mineral resources--including petroleum--is severely hampered by lack
of geological data, by isolated deposits where access is difficult, and by
1/   This section has been updated from the Second Telecommunications Project
President's Report dated December 8, 1981.



- 2 -
high investment costs. Industrial growth is limited by narrow domestic
markets, by poor infrastructure, and by inexperienced management. Prospects
for significant and rapid growth in the agricultural sector which comprises
42 percent of GDP are also limited. Low-yielding rainfed crops (millet and
sorghum) and traditional livestock herding appear to have little potential
for intensification. Rainfall is uncertain. Soils are fragile and prone to
exhaustion and erosion. Human resources are impoverished, in part because
access to basic amenities like clean water, better health care, and educa-
tional opportunities remains quite limited. Transportation and communication
are extremely expensive by world standards, both because Mali is landlocked
(Bamako is 1,200 kilometers from both Dakar and Abidjan) and because internal
distances are vast (Kayes in the west is 1,750 kilometers from Gao in the
east).  Finally, Mali is an open economy; imports and exports together amount
to more than half of GDP.  Trade is concentrated --cotton and livestock                   e
comprise four-fifths of exports, and petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of
imports--making the country extremely vulnerable to changes in world prices.
5.        Although these constraints make it difficult to achieve growth in
the short and medium term, Mali has long-run potential. Malian farmers are
among the most proficient in West Africa. Rainfed maize production could be
significantly expanded in the south. Mali has more irrigated rice land than
any other Sahelian country, as well as the largest physical scope for expan-
sion, although at present there are problems of maintaining existing irriga-
tion facilities and of developing profitable production techniques. Potential
hydroelectric generating capacity on the Niger and Senegal rivers is estimated
at 2,000 megawatts, although it is difficult to envisage viable uses for this
power. Mineral resources remain largely unexplored and unexploited but may
offer longer-term opportunities.
6.        In view of its limitations, the economy appears to have performed
well during the 20 years after independence (1960-80). Real GNP per capita
grew 30 percent (1.3 percent annually), more than most other Sahelian
countries. 1/ But trends mask wide swings from year to year caused by
climatic conditions; GNP declined in 1969, 1973, 1974, 1978, and 1980 but
grew by more than 10 percent in 1975, 1976, and 1979. Nor has the growth
been evenly distributed among sectors. For 1965-80--the longest period for
which detailed data are available--GDP growth was 4 percent per year, but
the primary and secondary sectors lagged (3.0 and 2.9 percent) while the
tertiary sector--comprising 48 percent of GDP by 1980--grew more rapidly
(5.3 percent).  Food production per capita has performed especially poorly--
as in most of sub-Saharan Africa--declining by 13 percent between 1970 and
1980.
7.        Faced with severe structural constraints and lack of sufficient
resources to overcome them, economic management in Mali is particularly
difficult.  Since independence, the government has attempted to promote growth
while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption from very low
1/   Economic growth rates given here are compound annual rates, calculated
from end points. For GNP and GDP, rates are always in constant prices.



- 3 -
levels. But the process has led by the end of the 1970s to very large finan-
cial and trade imbalances. There are multiple causes for these imbalances,
though not all are necessarily bad. On the negative side, there have been
continuing mistakes of economic management begun in the early 1960s, and poor
allocation of public resources. On the more positive side is the impact of
increased aid which was specifically intended to finance increased imports and
government programs.
Evolution
8.        Mali's economic history can be divided into three periods (1960-67,
1967-74, and 1974-80) based roughly on changes in economic and political
conditions. After independence, the first government undertook a major
program of modernization that included an independent monetary system, an
ambitious five-year development plan, a program of industrialization based
on state enterprises, and a welfare orientation intended to keep prices down
and to assure consumers an adequate supply of basic commodities. During
this period, GDP increased at 3.1 percent per year and the structure of the
economy shifted somewhat away from agriculture--with the secondary sector
increasing from 10 to 13 percent of GDP and the tertiary, from 35 to 37. By
1966, 27 state enterprises were in existence, and their share of sales in the
modern sector had increased to 71 percent from only 24 percent in 1961. But
public pricing and investment policies created imbalances that could not be
sustained. Government budgetary deficits, which often exceeded 5 percent of
GDP, and state enterprise losses were financed through bank credit, which grew
at an annual rate of over 30 percent. This created excess demand that was met
through imports, and by 1967 the resource gap had risen to 16 percent of GDP
(compared to 4.1 in 1960) and the current account deficit amounted to 28
percent of GDP. Net foreign assets had declined from a positive level to a
minus US$ 56 million, and the debt service ratio had risen to 19 percent. The
economic crisis led to the signature in early 1967 of monetary accords with
France, to a 50 percent devaluation in mid-1967, and to reintegration with the
franc zone in early 1968. At that time, the French Treasury opened an Opera-
tions Account for Mali to provide overdraft facilities to support the conver-
tibility of the Mali franc.
9.        In late 1968--early in the second period, a new government assumed
power and launched an ambitious but pragmatic reform program that was to
include increases in official commodity prices and more liberalized private
trade--especially in cereals. The government was immediately confronted by the
shock of the severe Sahelian drought that began in 1968--when per capita food
production fell by 9 percent. By the end of the drought in 1974, the loss of
human life--though not fully known--had been severe among nomadic groups, the
young, and the elderly; two million head of cattle, or over one-third of the
herd, were lost; food production per capita had fallen by 30 percent, turning
Mali from an exporter into a net importer of food. As the country was just
beginning to recover from 6 years of drought, it was hit by a second shock: a
sudden rise in world petroleum prices, which quintupled between 1972 and 1974.
The legacy of economic disequilibria from the previous government, coupled
with these massive shocks, made it extremely difficult for the new government
to follow a course of sound economic management.



10.       Compared to 1960-67, performance during 1967-74 was poor.  GDP grew
at only 1.8 percent per year and real per capita income declined. Output in
the primary sector fell at 1.4 percent per year, although the secondary and
tertiary sectors--fueled in part by rapidly increasing foreign assistance--
continued to grow, at over 4 percent per year. To finance losses incurred by
state enterprises that imported and sold subsidized goods, larger amounts of
bank credit were used, ultimately adding to external indebtedness. Efforts
to suppress domestic price rises, particularly of foodstuffs, depressed
domestic food production and increased cereal imports. By 1974, the economic
imbalances--already large 7 years earlier--had either not improved or had
deteriorated.  The resource gap was one-third of GDP, reflecting partly the
large inflow of foreign aid to sustain consumption after the 1968-1973 drought.
Domestic dissaving--as conventionally defined--was nearly one-fifth of GDP
(reflecting to some extent the convention in estimating national accounts that
all aid is invested, not consumed). And the current account deficit remained
high at 18 percent of GDP. Net foreign assets had fallen by over 100 percent
to a minus US$139 million--the result of continuing recourse to borrowings on
the Operations Account, and public external debt more than doubled. The
government budget deficit stood at 3.5 percent of GDP.
11.       After the end of the drought in 1974, economic performance in the
third period began to recover although financial imbalances continued to
worsen. GDP grew by 6.7 percent per year between 1974 and 1980. Agriculture
led this growth as it recovered from low drought levels, with 8.7 percent
per year, despite a significant decline in the terms of trade for farmers
during most of this period and poor crops in 1977 and 1979. The secondary
sector, however, virtually stagnated. As in many countries at this time,
inflation began to pose an additional problem for the country's economic
management; prices doubled in only 6 years. Though improved over 1974, the
resource gap was equal to almost 19 percent of GDP in 1980; and domestic
savings were still negative. The deficit on current account remained high at
17 percent of GDP. By the end of 1980, net foreign assets had fallen by
almost another 100 percent to minus US$249 million. This increase in foreign
liabilities, largely to the Operations Account, mostly reflected the 16
percent annual growth in credit to the economy over the period, which was
needed to finance large government Treasury deficits (4.0 percent of GDP in
1980, including modest capital expenditures) and large losses in the state
enterprise sector (US$60 million in 1979, or 5 percent of GDP). As the result
of borrowings to finance the 1974-78 plan, external public debt doubled again
to over US$850 million.
12.       The continuing financial deterioration was basically caused by the
inability of the government to reverse poor policy orientations in the face of
large, external shocks. The government's wage bill increased sharply and
although budget revenues did increase, the government Treasury deficit tripled
during the period. Losses of the public enterprises were 17 times greater (at
current prices) in 1979 than in 1975. These consumption-oriented policies
kept demand above levels sustainable by the domestic economy, causing imports



to rise more than exports, which were financed by reducing net foreign assets
and of diverting scarce external resources from productive investment. While
mistakes of public economic management should not be minimized, some additional
explanations for these imbalances should be noted. Their size reflects in
part the significant growth of foreign aid during this period, which both
increases imports and--by definition--the resource gap. Moreover, accounting
conventions lead to estimates of domestic savings that are misleadingly low.
When some of this foreign aid is actually used to increase consumption (as
with food aid), real domestic savings are in fact higher than shown by the
differences between investment and net imports. Finally, larger government
expenditures and budget deficits have been induced to some extent by addi-
tional costs linked to foreign-financed investments. In any case, faced with
worsening financial disequilibria coupled with reduced access to central bank
financing, the Malian government at the end of 1980 requested technical and
financial assistance from both the Bank and the IMF to help it carry out a
program of economic reform and adjustment.
13.       Despite difficult circumstances including poor rains in 1980 and a
further deterioration in the terms of trade, the government has been able to
initiate several major fiscal improvements in 1981, including credit restraint,
improved tax collection, higher taxes on basic consumer goods and petroleum,
fewer subsidies to offset price increases, restraint on government personnel
costs, savings on maintenance of government material, reductions in scholar-
ships, and suspension of some education expenditures. During 1981, budgetary
revenue grew by 16 percent, while expenditures grew by less than 5 percent.
Credit expansion was kept at less than 9 percent (seasonally adjusted).
Initial steps have been taken to restructure the state enterprise sector and
to improve the medium-term viability of key enterprises. To improve incentives
for agricultural production, the government has substantially raised commodity
prices (by 21-23 percent for cereals and by 18 percent for cotton). Official
consumer prices for cereals were raised by 15 to 36 percent. With technical
assistance financed by IDA, the role of OPAM--the cereals marketing board--is
being reduced. In May 1982, the IMF approved a one-year Standby Loan with the
IMF for SDR 30.375 million (about MF 20 billion). The government has also
formally asked to rejoin the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), a move that
would improve Mali's financial and monetary position.
14.       While these are positive signs, it is still too early to judge if
the measures can be sustained. Similar efforts have been initiated in the
past but postponed because drought, world inflation, structural constraints
and poverty leave the country little margin for maneuver. On balance however,
the government's actions warrant cautious optimism that economic reform will
be continued.
Planning
15.       The government has recently drafted a new Five-Year Plan for
Economic and Social Development for 1981-85. Like those of the previous Plan
(1974-78), its broad objectives continue to give priority to water develop-
ment--for the rural population, livestock, and irrigation; to agricultural



- 6 -
and livestock production--especially for achieving food self-sufficiency, for
supplying an expanded agro-industrial sector, and for increasing commodity
exports; to energy development; and to conservation of natural resources--
especially forests and pastures. These investment objectives seem to accord
fairly well with the major economic constraints facing the country. The new
Plan represents an important departure, however, from the past in terms of
development strategy. It puts special emphasis on the need for policy reforms
to re-establish fundamental financial and economic equilibria, notably by
balancing the government budget, reducing the balance of payments deficit,
reducing the losses of the state enterprises, and controlling training and
recruitment for the Civil Service. The new Plan clearly accepts the co-
existence of the public, mixed, and private sectors, and it seeks to increase
local private participation.
16.       Investments proposed by the new Plan are estimated to cost US$2.2
billion (in 1981 prices and exchange rates), of which US$1.7 billion would
be required during the five-year planning period. Roughly 70 percent would
be used to finance actual capital investments, the rest being for supporting
expenditures. Foreign sources will be expected to provide over 85 percent
of the financing (compared to more than 90 percent for the 1974-78 Plan).
Although comparisons are difficult, the implied annual investment level
appears to be over 50 percent higher than the one attained in the previous
planning period (1974-80), during which roughly US$1.5 billion (in 1981
prices) were actually commited over 7 years. Judging from past experience
implementation of the Plan may encounter delays and difficulties in project
preparation and execution. IDA financing for sound productive investment,
including a high level of recurrent, local-cost financing may help reduce
delays in project implementation.
Foreign Aid
17.       Foreign aid finances practically all planned public investment in
Mali and is therefore critical for promoting future growth. The inflow of
foreign aid has increased rapidly--especially since the drought--with net
disbursements of official development assistance rising from only US$4 per
capita in 1970 to over US$28 per capita in 1979, an increase of 130 percent
in constant prices. More than half of this aid is in the form of grants,
and almost 95 percent of the rest is loaned on highly concessional terms by
official aid agencies. Long-term external public debt has also increased
substantially, rising from US$288 million in 1970 to US$853 by the end of
1980, about three-fourths of which is disbursed. Despite the absolute in-
crease in debt, it has declined in relative importance in the economy over the
last 10 years, falling both in terms of real debt levels per capita and as a
share of GDP. This shift reflects both the increase in official grant aid and
growing recourse to short-term liabilities drawn on the Operations Account,
which added another US$224 million (including unpaid interest) to total public
external debt at the end of 1980. Bilateral sources hold 59 percent of the
long-term debt; multilateral agencies provide another 39 percent; and private
sources account for the remainder. The USSR and the People's Republic of



- 7 -
China (PRC) hold three-fifths of the bilateral debt (about US$300 million),
most contracted in the 1960s. The other important bilateral lenders include
Egypt, France, Iraq, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia. IDA is by far the largest
multilateral lender, accounting for over half the multilateral loans and for
21 percent of total debt committed and outstanding. Actual debt service
payments on long-ternm debt have been modest, amounting to US$11.1 million in
1980, or only 4.1 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services. This
ratio is lower than in the late 1960s and the early 1970s, and has been made
possible by rescheduling some debts (as was done for USSR and PRC debts until
1983) and by conversion of some loans into grants (as was done for US$92.9
million in 1978 by Canada and the Federal Republic of Germany). However, the
debt-service ratio could rise significantly in the future unless further
rescheduling and conversion occurs, which seems probable.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
18.       The proposed credit would be the Association's twenty-sixth credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to US$237.9 million equivalent. Of the twenty-
five operations already approved, ten have been for agriculture, eight for
transport, two for education, two for telecommunications, and one each for
small scale industries, urban development, and petroleum exploration promo-
tion. Transportation and agriculture represent the largest share of past
commitments, representing respectively 29 and 37 percent of total commitments.
The experience with ongoing operations has been mixed, the cotton project
doing reasonably well, while groundnuts/cereals and livestock projects have
experienced ccnsiderable difficulty. Highway reconstruction and improvement
has been successful while highway maintenance has lagged. The railway and
education projects are being implemented, though somewhat behind schedule.
Implementation is beginning on forestry, urban and small-scale enterprise
projects. In general, project implementation and subsequent cost recovery has
been hampered by Mali's difficult public finance situation. Notes on the
execution of ongoing projects are set out in Annex II.
19.       The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by (i) the extreme
poverty, poor health and low level of basic skills of a largely rural
population; (ii) a harsh natural environment with large fluctuations in the
availability of basic food supplies; (iii) a landlocked position with long
distances and difficult access to foreign markets; and (iv) an extremely
difficult macro-economic situation, in particular in the public sector.
The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance are (a) to support the
adoption of policies designed to encourage balanced economic growth, and to
redress the financial imbalances of the public sector and correct the biases
of expenditures now disfavoring rural areas; (b) to help finance investments
that will increase agricultural production; (c) to help meet the needs of the
rural population in terms of health, literacy and rural infrastructure; and
(d) to help provide an adequate transport and communications network. Given
the close linkages between macro-economic policy performance and project
implementation, the Government's ability to address policy issues is an
important determinant of the scope and timing of Bank Group lending.



- 8 -
20.       Future Bank Group lending for Mali will reflect a close liaison
between project objectives and related policy and institutional reform. In
the agricultural sector, follow-up operations to the sucessful Mali-Sud cotton
project (Cr. 669-MLI) and the Office du Niger technical assistance project
(Cr. 854-MLI) are scheduled. In both cases a major focus will be on pricing
and institutional issues. The recently approved Road Maintenance Project
(Cr. 1104-MLI) addresses the problem of generating and allocating adequate
recurrent cost financing in the road transport sector. The recently approved
Second Telecommunications Project and the proposed project aim at improving
financial and technical management. Interventions are also envisaged for
rural health, water supply, and for the production of biomass alcohol as a
blend for gasoline.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND WATER SUPPLY SECTORS
Energy resources and consumption
21.       With a total current energy consumption of about 700,000 tons of
oil equivalent per year, Mali's per capita energy usage is one of the lowest
in the world (115 kg). To meet this consumption need, the country has relied
on its precarious non-commercial supply of firewood (2.2 million tons per
year), some hydroelectricity (30 GWh per year), and imports of petroleum
products (159,000 tons in 1979). Solar energy is being used experimentally in
a number of small water pumping installations. The country's hydroelectrical
potential is estimated at 10,000 GWh, of which less than 1 percent has been
developed so far. Mali's oil prospects are still uncertain; a petroleum
exploration project is being financed by the Association. The use of agri-
cultural residues is limited at present. There are good prospects for the
production of gasohol from biomass, however, and a project to produce ethanol
from surplus molasses at two sugar refineries is under preparation for IDA
financing.
22.       Electricity accounts for six percent of final energy consumption.
Public electric service is supplied almost exclusively to consumers in urban
areas, with Bamako absorbing 86 percent of the total. This service covers
about 30 percent of the urban population and less than 5 percent of the total
population. Peak demand in Bamako has grown at an average rate of 12 percent
from 7 MW in 1971 to an estimated 20 MW in 1980, since generating capacity is
well below this figure because of frequent breakdowns and poor maintenance. A
48 MW hydroelectric power plant has been built at Selingue to meet Bamako's
and southern MaliTs power requirements. Its average annual generation is
estimated at 218 GWh. Power generation from this plant started in August
1981. Substituting hydroelectric energy from Selingue for diesel-electric
generation will reduce Mali's oil imports, with consequent foreign exchange
savings.



-9-
Water Supply and Sanitation
23.       The public water system adequately serves about 20 percent of the
urban population in Mali. Bamako has the largest level of service with 40
percent of the population served. There is no sewage disposal system, and
Bamako's limited drainage system is clogged due to a lack of maintenance.
An estimated 25 percent of the rural population is served by boreholes and
water wells, but many rural water supply projects are under way or about to
start with external aid. The Association is currently assisting Mali in
preparing such a project in the western part of the country.
Sectoral Institutions
24.       In addition to Energie du Mali (EDM) (see para. 25), two govern-
mental institutions have responsibilities in the water and power sectors.  The
Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy (DHE), under the Ministry of Industrial
Development, is theoretically responsible for the planning and the imple-
mentation of water supply projects and large power schemes, but in fact
does limited planning and implements only water projects. L'Office pour
l'Exploitation des Ressources Hydrauliques du Haut Niger (OERHN), under the
same Ministry, is currently operating the Selingue hydropower project, as a
bulk supplier principally to EDM.
25.       Energie du Mali.  EDM, the proposed project implementing agency,
is a parastatal water supply and power utility jointly owned by the Malian
government (55 percent of the share capital), and two French public agencies,
the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) holding 39 percent, and
Electricite de France (EDF) holding 6 percent. EDM has been operating since
1961 under a 30-year concession agreement, covering the production and the
distribution of power and water over most of the country. CCCE and EDF par-
ticipate in EDM's management, but the Malian government retains control over
policy issues.
26.       The organization of EDM does not segregate power and water activi-
ties, and direct authority for functional, operational and technical services
is heavily concentrated in the General Manager who is appointed by Presiden-
tial Decree. EDM management has recognized the serious shortage of skilled
and experienced management and staff and commissioned EDF to conduct an
organization, manpower and training study. Recommendations based on the
preliminary study constitute the basis for technical assistance provided
under the proposed project (paras 35-37).  Compounding the organizational
and staffing problems, EDM's operations are hampered by poor and difficult
internal communications between headquarters, the Bamako unit and the out-
stations.  Moreover, the company's financial constraints resulted in in-
adequate maintenance. Poorly organized commercial activities do not
coordinate effectively with technical services. Financing of block-mapping
and updating of customers' files for the Bamako area are included in the
proposed project, as well as construction of facilities to ease communication
problems (paras 34-35). A PPF-financed audit of EDM's 1977 accounts revealed
serious accounting weaknesses. During negotiations, assurances were obtained



- 10 -
that the Government will provide EDM with appropriate book values for all
EDM-operated public assets in the water sector by December 31, 1982 (DCA
Section 3.02). In addition, EDM will implement a complete cost accounting
system to allow separated financial management of the power and water sectors
by January 1, 1984 (PA Section 4.01(b)).
Future Investment Program
27.       The long-term electricity needs of southern and western Mali
are expected to be met by the proposed 200 MW Manantali hydroplant (annual
generation 800 GWh). However, since power from Manantali would not be
available before 1989/90 and additional generation will be needed to meet
peak demand in the dry season from 1987 onwards, an extension of the Sotuba
hydroelectric plant is planned to meet this demand in the short term.
28.       Over the past five years, most investments in the water supply
sector have been concentrated on the extension of existing systems in several
urban areas. A four-year plan, submitted by DHE in mid-1980 to the Ministry
of Plan calls for the extension of water supply services in twelve towns, and
for a study of water and sanitation in seven others. DHE has assumed that all
operations would be financed externally. In spite of some interest expressed
by bilateral and multilateral agencies, it is doubtful that the proposed DHE
targets will be fully met.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission in January/
February 1979. In October 1979, an advance of US$0.97 million was extended
through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for preparatory studies. The
project was appraised in June 1980 and post-appraised in April 1981 because of
change in EDM management. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., in
December 1981 and May 1982. The Malian delegation was headed by the Minister
for State Enterprises and the Minister of Planning, respectively. A credit
and project summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a supple-
mentary project data sheet is given in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report
No. 3227-MLI is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
30.       The project would assist the parastatal power utility prepare
future works to be carried out as part of a long-term program of rehabilita-
tion and expansion. It is aimed at alleviating EDM's managerial and opera-
tional constraints and at ensuring extended, more reliable and cost-effective
services, primarily to urban, but also to rural, inhabitants. The proposed
project would consist of:



- 11 -
(a) a power component, comprised of reinforcement and extension of
Bamako's distribution system, construction of a biomass power
plant at Mopti/Sevare, rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant
and extension of the powerline carrier communication system at
Balingue;
(b) a water supply component to resolve the main bottlenecks in
distribution and production facilities in Bamako;
(c) construction of facilities and supply of vehicles and equipment for
EDM operations, including extension of EDM's training center; and
(d) technical assistance to strengthen EDM management, to carry out
operational and sector policy studies, and to complete preparatory
studies and designs for future works.
31.       Power Component.  In terms of primary distribution the project
consists of: (i) a 30 kV underground cable link between the Badalabougou
substation south of the Niger river and the Dar Salam diesel electric power
plant that will reinforce the existing link; (ii) two new 15 kV feeders out of
the Balingue substation; and (iii) a 30 kV overhead link between the Sotuba
hydroplant and Balingue. In addition, the distribution system would be
extended to ten new sections of the city with about 5,000 potential customers.
The project also provides for the rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant
in order to meet the reserve requirements, and the extension of the powerline
carrier communication system between Balingue substation and the power plants
at Sotuba and Dar Salam, which at present are linked with only unreliable
radio communication.
32.       The proposed biomass power scheme consists of the construction of
a thermal power plant at Mopti/Sevare that would use rice husks as fuel. The
2 MW power plant would be located adjacent to an existing 13,000 tpy rice mill
at Sevare which will be expanded in 1983 to 45,000 tons capacity. The tech-
nology for this type of plant is relatively new, and a study is currently
underway to resolve problems pertaining to the quality of rice husks, that
have been encountered in a prototype plant in Cameroon. A decision to proceed
with this component will be made after satisfactory results of the study are
available.
33.       Water Supply Component.  The water supply component would:  (i) re-
inforce pumping stations supplying treated water to the main network and, if
necessary, add new raw-water pumping facilities for the new treatment plant;
(ii) convert the old treatment plant into a pilot filtration unit to investi-
gate the feasibility of continuous utilization of the Niger River after direct
filtration only; (iii) supply water meters and meter repair facilities;
(iv) supply and lay 6 km of trunk and secondary mains for the improvement of
distribution flows to peripheral areas; and (v) provide spare parts and equip-
ment to rehabilitate existing production facilities of EDM-s secondary center
systems in the course of a water supply training program.



- 12 -
34.       Facilities, Vehicles and Equipment.  Construction of facilities
included in the proposed project would help to centralize staff and provide
adequate space for data processing equipment. The EDM training center would
be expanded, to complement increased training activities supported by tech-
nical assistance. Approximately 22 vehicles would be provided for various
purposes, with a mobile maintenance shop, tools and instruments to re-equip
EDM's maintenance shops and power plants, and office equipment.
35.       Technical Assistance and Studies.  Approximately 52 work years of
expert services will be included. A team of 12 managers/technicians to be
provided to EDM under contract for four years would be financed under the
project. The signing of their contracts would be a condition of effective-
ness. The experts would both advise EDM management and have direct opera-
tional responsibilities, and each would conduct on-the-job training for
Malian counterparts. It is anticipated that experts would be seconded mainly
from EDF because of (i) the desirability of having the team supported and
supervised by a major power utility; (ii) EDF's experience and well estab-
lished competence in technical assistance; and (iii) their knowledge of local
problems. In addition, an experienced project manager would be engaged
independently of the team provided by EDF, to be in charge of the coordination
of the project, including supervision of consultants and periodic reporting to
cofinanciers. His appointment would be a condition of effectiveness.
To complement the work of the technical assistance team and contribute to the
rehabilitationr of EDM operations, several specific tasks and studies would
be carried out by specialized firms or consultants. The tasks are aimed at
improvement of internal operating procedures such as strengthening of account-
ing procedures, review of the billing system and updating of customer files;
and also would include overall planning in the optimal operation of the Bamako
system and in organizing a preventive maintenance system. In addition,
sectoral studies would be carried out regarding medium/long-term system
planning for power and water supply, including tariff issues, advisability of
continuing the concession system for the power utility and of the optimal
system for management of power and water activities. A total of 156 months of
consultant services is estimated necessary for carrying out these tasks and
studies.
36.       Technical assistance in the form of approximately 155 workmonths of
engineering services would be financed to assist EDM in engineering design,
the preparation of tender documents and to supervise construction, and for
completing three tasks pursuant to planned future works, namely: (i) designs
and cost estimates for extension of the Sotuba hydroelectric plant capacity
to supply additional power demand in Bamako between the commissioning of
Selingue and Manantali dams; (ii) designs and tender documents for a transmis-
sion link between Bamako and Segou based on the PPF-financed feasibility
study; and (iii) design and cost estimates for an initial extension and
reinforcement of the Bamako water supply production and distribution system.



- 13 -
37.       Terms of reference for all proposed experts and studies have been
drawn up. Training is emphasized and would largely be accomplished on the job
under the supervision of the expatriate assistants. Three members of the team
would be full-time training specialists to assist the EDM chief training
officers and to implement EDF's manpower and training study recommendations.
Project Cost and Financing
38.       Total estimated project cost is US$43.2 million equivalent, of which
US$41.2 million or 95 percent would be foreign exchange expenditures. This
estimate includes refinancing of the PPF advance of US$0.97 million, and
excludes duties and taxes, which are not applicable. For the studies, base
line costs have been estimated at an average of US$14,500 per work-month,
which includes travel, subsistence and overheads. Physical contingencies
of 10 percent have been applied for civil works and equipment in the power
component, and price contingencies have been included at the rate of 9 percent
for 1981, 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent for 1983, and 6 percent there-
after. Total contingencies amount to US$7.0 million, or 16 percent of total
project cost. Project costs are detailed in the credit and project summary.
39.       The OPEC Fund will finance the Mopti/Sevare biomass power scheme for
a cost of US$6.4 million on a parallel basis, representing about 15 percent of
total project costs. This financing will be extended to the Government at no
interest for a 20 year term, including five years of grace. The CCCE and FAC
will provide joint financing of approximately 50 percent of the cost of the
technical assistance component and the rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power
plant, or US$10.8 million, representing about 25 percent of total project
costs. The CCCE will provide US$6.0 million equivalent at about 5 percent
interest for a term of 15 years including a five year grace period, while the
FAC contribution of US$4.8 million equivalent will be in the form of a grant
to the Government. The terms of the CCCE loan will be finalized shortly,
including on-lending from Government to EDM. Effectiveness of the OPEC, CCCE
and FAC financing would be a condition of effectiveness The proposed IDA
credit of US$24.0 million would represent 55 percent of total project costs
and would cover the balance of foreign exchange required to implement the
project. The Government's participation of US$2.0 million or 5 percent of
total project costs, would cover the local cost component, and would be
financed by EDM through internal cash generation.
Project Execution
40.       A project coordinator, responsible for supervision of works, imple-
mentation, and liaison with IDA and other cofinanciers, will report directly to
the General Manager (PA Section 2.01(b)). EDM plans to employ EDF to prepare
detailed designs and to supervise the construction of the biomass power plant
at Mopti/Sevare and of the extension to the Bamako electric distribution
system. For the water supply component, EDM plans to continue with the
services of the consulting firm SAFEGE, which prepared the Master Plan for the
water supply of Bamako. Engineering consultants would be employed by EDM to
carry out the different design studies contemplated in the project (para 36)
and to supervise civil works under the project.



- 14 -
41.       Monitoring criteria and reporting requirements were reviewed with
EDM during negotiations. Assurances were obtained that EDM will submit
progress reports to the Association on a quarterly basis, and a project
completion report after project implementation is finished. In view of the
current poor state of EDM's accounts and the time required to significantly
improve them, for FYs 1981 and 1982, brief joint reports on EDM-s annual
accounts will be submitted to IDA by EDM and the consulting firm hired under
the project for improvement of the system, along with an external audit of
project-related expenditures. Beginning in FY83, audited annual accounts
will be made available to IDA, within four months of the end of each fiscal
year (PA Section 4.02).
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       All contracts for supply of equipment or civil works construction,
except the rehabilitation of Dar Salaam, would be awarded as a result of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines,
with a 7.5 percent margin of preference for local contractors on civil works.
ICB would not be required for Dar Salaam, since it involves rehabilitation of
existing equipment and purchase of spare parts. The selection of consultants
other than those financed by CCCE/FAC would be done by EDM in accordance with
the August 1981 "Guidelines for the use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
(PA Section 2.02).
43.       Disbursement of the proposed IDA Credit of US$24.0 million would
cover 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures in the following cate-
gories: electrical works, equipment and installation (US$6.1 million); water
supply civil works, equipment and installation (US$1.8 million); services of
consultants and fellowships, (US$7.6 million); studies (US$2.1 million);
vehicles, tools and office equipment (US$0.9 million). Civil works for EDM
headquarters, data processing and training center buildings (US$1.7 million),
would receive disbursements of 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures,
or if purchased locally, 80 percent of local expenditures. Disbursements
would cover 10 percent of foreign exchange expenditures for the rehabilita-
tion of Dar Salam power plant (US$0.4 million). In addition, the PPF advance
of US$0.97 would be refunded upon effectiveness of the Credit and US$2.4
million would remain unallocated. Withdrawal requests for disbursements from
the Credit would be fully documented. The Credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1987.
44.       In March 1980, independent auditors prepared a report on EDM-s
finances based on the data as of December 31, 1977. That report plus some
unaudited information obtained from EDM, form the basis of IDA-s review of
EDM's past financial achievements and present financial position. In view of
the numerous accounting deficiencies of EDM the financial figures should only
be considered as indicative - orders of magnitude are plausible but a large
possibility of error remains. As a consequence, the basis for designing a
financial recovery plan is not available at the moment and the project focuses
rather on two basic objectives: (i) improvement of EDM-s accounting and
commercial organization; and (ii) securing enough local funds for proposed
project which is estimated at about 10 percent of the total investment costs.



- 15 -
Financial Position of EDM
45.       Revenues from power operations did not cover operating expenses
in FY 1979, while revenues from water operations did not cover operating
expenses in any of the past five FYs. Had adequate maintenance been performed
both power and water sectors would have shown larger deficits. Using EDM-s
provisional balance sheet as of December 31, 1979, information given by DHE on
the public domain water sector assets, and adjusted cumulated depreciation for
the public domain assets, total assets amount to MF 14 billion (US$28 million).
In accordance with Malian law, all EDM's assets and the public domain assets
are valued at historical cost.  In order to allow sound monitoring and manage-
ment of its operations, EDM has agreed to revalue assets annually on a pro
forma basis by December 31, 1983, in a manner satisfactory to IDA (PA Section
4.03).
46.       Current assets as of December 31, 1979 include receivables amount-
ing to about MF 4 billion (US$8 million). These debts represent about 8.5
months of billing for FY79. They are owed by: private consumers, 60 per-
cent; municipalities, 14 percent; Government departments, 11 percent; and
state enterprises, 15 percent. Reduction of EDM's receivables would require
the implementation of the specific actions included in the proposed technical
assistance component (para 40), and additional EDM and Government measures.
To this effect, Government: (i) has recently paid all its outstanding
electricity and water bills to EDM, and (ii) has authorized EDM to disconnect
the delinquent consumers including the State owned enterprises and municipali-
ties. During negotiations, it also gave assurances that it will continue to
pay its own bills on time and will continue to support the above disconnection
policy. More specifically, assurances were obtained that (i) its budgets for
1982 and subsequent years will allocate its agencies sufficient funds for
prompt payment of water and electricity bills, (ii) by September 30, 1982,
municipalities, state agencies and enterprises will adopt procedures to ensure
prompt payment, (iii) beginning December 31, 1982, arrears by these agencies
and enterprises will be kept at levels not exceeding 2 months' billing, and
(iv) beginning June 30, 1983, arrears by the municipalities will be kept at
levels not exceeding 2 months' billing (DCA Section 3.03). Assurances were
also obtained from EDM that it will carry out the above mentioned commercial
improvement program as detailed and scheduled in the rehabilitation plan
proposed by EDF (paras. 26 and 35), in such a way as to reduce overall con-
sumer arrears to not more than 3 months' billing by the end of 1982 and to not
more than 2 months' billing by the end of 1983 (PA Section 4.04).
Projected Operations
47.       Tentative capital expenditure for the two sectors for the period
FY82-87 totals MF 21.6 billion (US$43.2 million). The proposed project would
represent about 98 percent of the total program for the power and water sector
over the 1982-87 period.



- 16 -
48.       EDM has uniform national tariffs for power and water.  Water tariffs
at present do not allow EDM to recover expenses of supplying services and are
approximately half the level of tariffs in neighboring Sahelian countries for
commensurate service. The proposed project includes financing of tariff
studies for power and water to be completed in time for an exchange of views
with the Association before December 31, 1983 (PA Section 2.08).
49.       Given the lack of adequate financial information, the definition of
suitable long-run financial objectives is difficult at this time for either
the water or power sectors separately or for EDM as a complete entity.
The definition of such targets would therefore be deferred until a later phase
of the rehabilitation program. In addition, because of the poor services that
EDM has been providing to its power customers, it has been difficult to ask
EDM to raise its power tariff.  However, since the recent introduction of a
reliable supply of power from Selingue is gradually improving service in the
Bamako area, a tariff increase is now considered justifiable. During nego-
tiations, the Government and EDM agreed that appropriate managerial and
tariff actions would be taken so that beginning in FY84, EDM-s net cash
generation be sufficient to finance not less than 10 percent of annual capital
expenditures for the power and the water sectors individually. This will
allow EDM to generate sufficient cash to finance local costs of the proposed
investment program. In order to achieve the above minimum targets, the
Government agreed that EDM will (a) by July 1, 1982, increase electricity
tariffs by an additional 8 percent; (b) automatically adjust tariffs to cover
any changes in the cost of purchased electricity; (c) automatically adjust
tariffs to compensate for increases in the cost of operations due to infla-
tion; and (d) by January 1, 1983, increase water tariffs by 10 percent.
Appropriate long-term arrangements would be adopted based on more accurate
financial data and the completed tariff studies (PA Section 4.06 and DCA
Section 3.04).
50.       It was agreed during negotiations that the Government would on-
lend the IDA credit to EDM under a subsidiary loan agreement at 9.6 percent
interest for a period of 20 years including five years' grace. However, as
the financial condition of EDM permits, the 9.6 percent rate will be reviewed
annually by the Government and IDA with a view to its progressive modification
to conform to the then generally applicable relending rate for proceeds of
IDA-s credits (DCA Section 3.01(b)). The signing of the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and EDM would be condition of Credit
effectiveness. It was agreed that the foreign exchange risk will be borne by
EDM. It has been assumed that future external assistance would bear an
average interest rate of 7 percent p.a. and have an average repayment period
of 15 percent years. On the basis of these assumptions the proposed tariff
increases would permit EDM to cover its debt service from FY82 onward.
51.       In order to be assured that debt service will not be excessive,
and that availability of both local and foreign costs will be assured, the
Government and EDM agreed during negotiations: (i) to exchange views with
the Association on the costs and benefits and on the economic justification of
the investment before incurring any debt in excess of US$1 million for each



- 17 -
operation on behalf of the power or the urban water sectors; and (ii) to
submit to IDA annually by March 31 a program detailing all investments planned
in the power and the water sectors, and corresponding sources of both local
and foreign funds, for the next three years (PA Section 4.05). Furthermore,
Government will assume debt service on facilities in the public domain which
until now have been covered by EDM. This arrangement will be reviewed upon
completion of the concession study to be financed under the proposed project
(DCA Section 3.06).
Benefits
52.       The project will, through institution building seek to alleviate
EDM's managerial and operational constraints thereby ensuring extended, more
reliable and cost-effective service primarily to urban but also to rural
inhabitants.
53.       Bamako Distribution.  Power service in Bamako has been heavily
curtailed in the last few years by breakdowns of the generating units due to
poor maintenance, and inadequate distribution capacity. A number of power
users had to install and run private diesel electric power sets. This situa-
tion should improve with the commissioning of Selingue, and sales should
rebound by about 25 percent between 1980 and 1981. From 1981 to 1990 load
growth should develop at an average of 10 percent per year and under the
project, EDM would strengthen and extend the distribution system to accommo-
date load growth up to 1985. Using current tariff levels for the calculation
of benefits, the rate of return for the proposed investment in power distribu-
tion is 21 percent.
54.       Mopti/Sevare Biomass Power Plant.  The biomass power plant units
would use low-heat value gas and gas oil produced from burning of rice husks.
The only alternative to the proposed biomass power scheme is a diesel based
power plant. A least-cost comparison results in an equalizing discount rate
of 25 percent, assuming an increase of diesel oil cost at 3 percent per year.
The rate of return of this component is computed at 11 percent using current
tariff levels to calculate benefits.
55.       Water Supply.  The investment carried out for water supply under
the project would complement the ongoing works on the treatment plant financed
from German bilateral aid. Whereas the latter consists of extending the
production facilities, the project investment would supply and install the
necessary pumping installations and distribution network to make the water
available to customers. Areas would be selected which so far have not bene-
fitted from a distribution system or from adequate water pressure in their
neighborhood. As a result, with a minimum amount of investment the project
would benefit approximately 60,000 people who thus far have had to rely on
unsafe and more expensive sources of water supply, and would increase the
reliability of service to the 150,000 people already served.
Project Risks
56.       The risks involved in the implementation of the physical aspects
of the project are normal for projects of this type, since all phases of work
would be supervised by suitably qualified consultants. In the case of the



- 18 -
biomass power plant, recent problems have arisen in the Cameroon prototype
project and EDF is now studying them. If, as is expected, the Government and
the OPEC Fund decide, on the basis of the study results, to proceed with the
project, we do not expect the risks to be greater than normal. In case of
interruption with the gas production, the generating sets can operate solely
on diesel oil, so that electric supply would not be compromised.
57.       Experience in West Africa with technical assistance to power and
water utilities indicates that concrete results can only be achieved through
sustained effort over a number of years. In EDM's case the considerable tech-
nical assistance included in the project can go a long way to arrest further
deterioration of EDM's operations. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that
there is still some risk of failure and that further technical assistance is
likely to be necessary beyond the project period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Mali and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and Energie du Mali, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. Special conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) EDM recruit a project coordinator whose qualifications are acceptable to
the Association (para. 40); (b) EDM sign a contract for the provision of a
team of experts to assist EDM's management, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association (para 35); (c) the subsidiary loan agreement between
Government and EDM be signed (para 49); and (d) all conditions precedent
to disbursement of the FAC grant and OPEC Fund and CCCE loans be fulfilled
(para 39).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 16, 1982



Annex 1
Page I
TABLE  3A
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LANh AKi.A  1HoU6S.D SU. E.  )                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
12M.il   f'40.0                                 MOST RECENT              LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
(Ci 1.1,KA,.    320.5                    1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
,,NP PER CAPITA (LSS)                          50.0          70.0      140.0                   238.3                      794.2
EEhRKY  woNSUPIPTION PER iLAP(T'A
(KIL(kAMS OF COAL FQI'IVALENT)             14.9          21.2        29.7                    70. 5                    707. 5
FU?LLC.IION AND VITAL S1A'ISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOLUSANDS)         4224.0        5362.0    6750.0
LkiANA  POLLLAT1ION  (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    II.(           14.9        19.3                    17.5                      27.7
PS'PULATIUN PRkOJECTIONS
POPULATION  IN YEAR 200U  (MILLIONS)                               12.2
STArIONARY POPLLATION (MILLIONS)                                   35.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHEID                           2130
'P(LLATION DENStTY
PEER Sq. KM.                               3.4           4.3         5.4                    27.7                      55.0
PER ,,. K.1. AOHICULrURAL LAND            13.3          16.9       20.5                     /3.7                     130. 7
iCPLLATION ;(1. STRUCTIRE IPERCENT)
U-14 YES.                                 43.7          44.7       45.3                     44.8                      46.0
15-t4 Yk,.                                 S3.7          52.6       52.0                    52.4                       51.2
65 YRE. AND A8GVF                           2. b          2.7         2. 7                    2.9                       2.8
POPL LA 11(N GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                      2.1           2.4         2.6                     2.6                       2.8
LRbAN                                      5.2           5.4         5. 5                    6.5                       5.1
,NED4lF7 5Th11T  RAT'E (PER IH()USAND)      49.8          49. 1       49.4                    46.9                      46 9
CHUDE DEATH RAI'E (PER THOUSAND)            26.5          23.6        21.5                    19.3                       15.8
,RUSS REPRODUCTION RATE                       3.3          3.2         3.3                     3.1                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOkS, ANNUAL (TH()USANDS)
USERs (PERCENT OF MARRIE-D  WOMEN)          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF' FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71'100))                103.0         100.0       85.0                     89.5                      89.9
PEK iAP1TA SUPPLY OF
CAL//RI ES (PERCENT IN
REOUIKEMENTS)                           86.D          94.0       90.0                    90.2                       92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                  56.0          59.0       57.0                     52.7                      52.8
OIF WHIC.H ANIMAL AND PULSE             15.0          16.0       15.0                     17.8                      16.1
C*IILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            41.U          34.7        31.3                    27.3                      20.2
HEAL IH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.2          40.4        43.0                    45.8                      5O.R
INFANT MHOl ALITY RATE tPER
THOUSAND)                                      ..            .          .
A(.bCI., rI) CAk I. WAIEK (PLRCENT OF
PFREE LAT) UN )
rOlAI.                                      ..            ..        9.0                    23.9                       27.4
URbAN M                                                 29.0       42.0                     55.0                      74.3
RUKAL                                       ..            ..         3.0                    18.5                      12.6
ACC.ESD  IO EXNRE'IA DISPOSAL. (PERCENT
IF POPLLA II()N)
rOTNI.                                      ..           8.D          ..                   26.2
IRAN .A.                                                63.0          ..                    63. 5
t<hKAi                                      ..            ..          ..*    20.3
POPUILATIOU  PER PdYSIC1AN               67047.6       44314.0   25145.7                  31911.8                    13844.1
i'oPULAI'ION  PER NURSING PERSON          4982.0/c.d  4124.6       3232.4                  3674.9                     2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAI. BED
TOTAL                                   1472.0/c e  1480.0/e  1818.6                     1238.8                     1028.4
CK.bAN                                   302.0c.e  1310.8         617.1                    272.8                     423.0
RUKAI                                   2849. llfc,   1604.7          ..                 1745.2                     3543. 2
XDMIsSIONS PER HUSPIrAL HED                    . .        27.3          ..                      .
HOL SING
AVE.RAGE SIlE OF HOUSEHOLD
T(TAL                                        ..           ..         4.8
URbAN                                       ..            ..          ..
hURAL                                       ..            ..          ..
AVF RAGE N1,MRER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
T(]TAl                                       ..           ..          .                        ..
TL T A I
LEHAI.                                      ..            ..           ..
AC.CESS l. ErLXTRiCIT) (PERCENT
i'RAN                                        ..           ..
RUKAL                                        ..           ..



- 20 -                                           Annex 1
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEyAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  10.0         24.0      28.0                   56.4                     73.7
MALE                  14.0         31.0       36.0                  70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                 6.0         17.0      20.0                   50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          5.0       9.0                   10.0                    16.2
MALE                   1.0          8.0       13.0                  13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                 0.3          2.0        5.0                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  15.0/f         10.0        9.0/                 8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         40.0      43.0                   46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                           14.0         15.0        ..                   25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          3.0/c         ..       10.Ojj                25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          1.6       2.1                    2.9                    32.3
RADIO RgCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9         11.2      13.2                   32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                    1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.2          0.5        0.5                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..         ..                   1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2431.3       2964.8    3604.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    47.6         47.4      47.2                   34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.0         91.0      88.4                   80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.7          4.1       4.9                    8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.6         55.3      53.4                   41.7                    37.2
MALE                                  60.6         58.6       56.9                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                                54.5         52.0       50.0                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9        0.9                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      98.0                  136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                 *-           *-      60.0                   84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .           ..      61.0                   99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      37.0                   61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      27.0                   39.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       48.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Government Personnel;  Le Government hospital establishments;  /f Not including private
vocational schools; /g 1975.
May, 1981



- 21 -                                                                             Annex 1
Pegs 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL SSICATORS
tot.:  Although the data are dsan from  source. ge.e.ally' judged the mas a-haitttins end reliable, it should also be noted that they may to  be itote-
trationslly comparable because of the lack of etaodsodieedYdefintitte  end o--opt. used by diffeet-  otu..eniesSorllo itg  he date.  The data ate  tote-..
thelese... cefu1l.t  e-otihe orders of eagritude, itdicate  -reds, aad rhruefacr                   -tejotdtfee   beahttrssnurr.e.
..ereernc  stoop  are (- h        eoutyaoP of nhesubjntcou...tryas.d                 I atnuory' grou.P oiht  o.-ehat bighera-erge  booms tha  teOuttyru
of the  bujeo   onr   esarto   Cat               upu  Oil fuportate" grouP abat   Middls brut  North AfoSus an.d Kifdd1lE-te`e  het  ess Iob etInge
snt"utrlfffnhtiee.  Inteteeeu  gopd tht   ha  nrgssepplro   egtdalhel   tt  foe etch I                                    md   . Scto  and ehoo  suly ohe
sajoltno   of rho conrea       Ir goonp ha. data for  ha I   oiollso... Shon  the       . c neage of   ..u.trleaaIa the  lndi--t' Ospeded on tdhe aailahilltry ofIdta
and isnrubIc.cuto   uth   .s..s.                  i  relaingn--gee of one Sod iceo   osohr    bsesoa                       t         sflS   opro  the Iau    f
1d04  ARdA (thousan   eqRo)                                                                        oultft1     e I o'l t,uIfd - total  -rbor  and rus ..    Fopulatiot (-ota,
Tatel- To tal eufcl te   np fe.Ping. land arsa sod inlardeesre.urhr,and total) dhndedby tbhSet  -p-toti-ne tuoet o  hosyttL  beds,,
E.luloal-ttieote ofn ioolua   raue  rmohyo   eenly                       y_iobl  ft i  puhllo and Prf-te ge...tsI ardseilsd h.spital Itdre
for croye, patue,  sket ard Aitth- garden. or to  Ie falow   1978 'data                        hahil itahtctor           ryteaoeeti-iSaneta  emcn.tfe
GNP P  UIA~~~~~~~~~~11!.lk ~~~~~~by or leas  ..e phy.iictc.   ttbuhsteooiigphofalce
olIed by' I Iec _nre    senhd       Ia Mt   Soo  Ate   (97-9hsi)itInd sdta   etr  -oeatnl   tffon by a chya;iofa  (hut by a
1970, sod 1979 data.                                                                             medici as..tnt  -ntt, ondoiff, er.) ohtoh offer tn-ptatSni             ooo
ENth CO iNSUMNPTION Ff0 CAPITA - hsua1 coteosytuon of uo--ctl e..orsy (coitol.  lpuno    utha b hoepttais trohuda anyep 1trpl getera  hepittals,
end lagefte, Ostroleum   naua  gesdhydro,-.P, ulear and geothsmal also-                           and rus  hoepfna1, loca  or -uro  hoap1tol  and eed'dfo'l d  artot tly
atfofy) inAfoossa  f col eqinsn I    Peo  a"it; 1990   970,97   an   99cnes    ynad                                hoyttlsIte irludad onl  under  toa.1
daEa,                                                                                          Adgissi-n :per fterlnl la.d - Tots) nuabet of adsitto, to or disuhoogos
foot hnap..a. doded byht  nuber of bode.
POPULATIONAD VeI tTAL STATISTICS
Total Popubation, Mtid-Yean (thousan.ds) - be If July i; 1960, 1970. and 1070                HOUSING
dats.                                                                                        Aorsa  lo   f            1uabl  (rere     re  h.u..d.   -ttl ubn   ndotl
tes   orlono  rr to  toa)-O Iiof ulben to tota  PIyP on;A  oshl,cnIt   f    su   f fIdlidul aeho share lt1Nit    utr
diffferrt d             Ifntit   f utbat areas maYffccmpr       y of faeInd their  al acl.hhune                                        ldger may orta  00y    h I ncbi.luded Sn
ssng iuotfe; 1965,17,ad17Oao                                                              the househol  fr ai aIca   upee
Poouaafr  Projecn..e                                                                        Anetage nuber of rorsons p Ott   o- tunl,l urhet, sod rural -           IA'rlg  S-
Pogoith- ir yeae 1000 - Currant poyulaoo  poecfi                 chae n -ttt                   ban of pensoce yet  ... Ir al  urban   t   ua   coyenoenIonoI
totalpoultnby Sge and sea and ohet   arltin   etliytns                                       doIli;,g,, e-pe-tto-ly'.   arIinetcldo -ptaottuaead
ing iff  sopectncy athtrth Scooihgofithb    . unony,' pen capita Sonnet            Acosee tofeti  t   Prcn   fdtin    total, urban, tod ruos1 -
lenel, an  fetols  ife ropetencysrtltaing an 77.5yar.  Th   at-Cann fai doli Ig noob   tloorfity' in lco    noos5
meesFo      lethcyrte ale oh-en  three lvs   eing decline in                                 ofttlIrhan, Ind ..uoul d-Itlftfars-p-ocooy.
friiyacring to .nco. lanaiIand oe                  ..fl   p Ingnna pefrrDUCtoIO
tact c--try to then assiged ono of these  i.eonb. ain  of marna.loy                      ffCTO
and fertilSty tren As f-r ...cuo   upns                                                    Ad)uated toro1lset Retios
tSrioaypoo        _tinIneIs_i ....n  pouato  thea S  n  gostaine                                'rtar  schol -tool -mae ad fmnor   iteotu G              , sale. and fetalt
the bltnth rare Se equalto the death rat. ondal  the aeItruture ra                              nol         o   l  aget at the pitmay' IeI     asytcoA.....rspcSO
maiscc 'at    his St hsend cnly aflter forotliryoso      d delto  to                  prOm_ry  shol-g  poyu1lofoa   omiyicudschde   gd6l
rho reptoose..nt lo-c  of unit ne  rpeodu...nir rote, oh..eth gee oyears hut adjusted f- diffane"t l.eoshe of prniar'educac Ion   o
of scenracace   t eIf  .o..tly'. Th. suationary pupulenfon aloeot                        c-otttirsonih Int Iraoua oterlletm p aneed 100 pelnoet
estimatd on lthe bai of the  oo Ioa  uhroafrt.fth   nuafosneenappi   r                                                     - or  bone the offitna1l shot age.
Sn the Year 2000, ard tho runs of denlioc of fertilifry rate to relae-Snt ldr  soho1l -total, maa and femal  - Cnmpuned as ahy'; secodaty
-on  lere...                                                                                   -dntorqufreaI Ibeer  four Y Iae  fapprocd prIar  tot'Y                   tn
cearng Pirar             ilclato  le oolhad - Th. Ysat then  t.tar...ay popilasacn                ponoides genatl.1  -n-tinnu..   or Iteto  ernah ig.,tccf            forpoi
ense baa  ast reachetd.                                                                        usually of 12 to 17 yeaoe of aga; no-ropondeoc   lorssargnerallyi
'Popultiot lese.ity'                                                                                eldd.
Pet so. ke. -sod-year population per equate kiloe..a 1. 100 heotaree) of                        Vnn...atal e_  oloant(teos    of *soondsrt) - V..atfoa ...        fcuhon
totl ae;161, 10_~701 and 1979 det                                                              Snlullds  . r     I'tl            ..otra , r  ther peogteas.. ahitob operate indpod-
PetsoIfo .aofuualan   -neptdashefosgcurtlsod-stlynoa  depatent.  fscnay   otttans
oly;. 196. 197.en  179 datt.                                                                "Punltah"Irrt- rso.ar   eedec t                             ud-ets...nllId inn
Populatio  Aae Seoutars foeosot) C-ilfdren (0-14 Years).  noo,ki, to-g   (15-             prm           :-adscndar'y len-ds dndad Fby nathara of t-as_  Sn the
6uyas,ad nesoalI     S I Int sd  -te) aspt      Itae   of md-Y-n PIPu-                      trrep-oding level.
.laron  19 1   1'970    d17  date.nAduLt.litteteon rate  ont)-Liaet--  adults (able to read and -st,a)
Poolatoo  ooh. tars lonat -. to:61tal l- annualol gtoh rate. of itel. ofa-                    seIaoeog f t-Isldult popolatton egad 15 y'a_  atd _oet
peer.. pplsine  fur 1950_60, _161TI nsd 1900-79.
Foprulainof  ..nesh RoAI  (oroot  - urban - Atua  growth retee of urban papa-                CNShT
latinoe fot 19506, 10 ~9t-7. ad 10970-79.-                                                 CNUPTee ONurar(rttu.ncclsf)-Fasgrce    opisst
poplaltio-n;%90,170 nd 1979 dt.mltarntfcee
bode Death Oat  (pEr, thousand) -   A-ua  dsothe Par- thosande of mnd-y..o                     t1,dioPchee(e   husdrrlnoi-Altpso   asnr   o   ah
ynyulstto-;1960, 1970   h   97   ae                                                            horadastogsnral  uhh         t  per floter2   o   tpoyclort.s; esiudu-
,itY' rate; u-ue'Y f  syeraaaa   nfgi   90   00   n   99                                     mosthcfntohe  ahlsed1Senu
FanSl FlaninaAcoeoona  unnal (housnds)-  Antual 6Oer of~' areft                     ' annes(e   baan   outSt)-T                        eor  for hr n facst
of  lnn-noorl dnnee  nde  septesof  attna  failyolnora poges.gesta  pulI  pe  thusndt             oyuounn;euludeot dened I _cetet
F bilth-l-t-I                                                                                                       TV~~~~~~~~~~~phhcto  dne   yiarl   o  snniggeea  ros.   It  t cotiena
teaurcIeouhludd) Agoae prdcinn ahnopyl.. is9 hfo  oni.                                     i,dn y -ti-n ndo
noioa naetg    grdus  price4 o -hta  196 i-6. b1970, andt97   af.Ine -P Iit-lPn ic                       n (touans  -h tcuiotcllty' scfne pesot          oud
In u.. tItfosusa Pd- - In fodFintabadbss  nOaoiui    DoqSoslysicu in                                            f (pret)  p.labor foc..it farm ing, fnIary- hotk    gan
mees ntsearSeredbymS  asr  o  yhsflngca  needs ton9norma  act-.                        fihtnna A5Foceost         ftotllbrfre   00   00ad17   aa
cityand  aalt  cothueIng  onrontto  ispynr,boyd              tgt,og                   nuty  nereI)   Lbo  turns  t. -of            --log,     cotttfht manufatotf
andt  .  son   ..st fhulo o  pouiti.t, and;alloingI  Id... lD der Ind forose tdn  sdi                ektn .idhy Ilie  an  gasY - t paroodnage  fttllbrdo                 90
hoobld -ct   96-h5,197.  an-d   1977 - data                                           1970d.(.% g  and 1979. daita..d .int  d -i                               -
net spyl  of hfoo  per  Iday. No InPdy  fon  ist def-I  ted as shone ITa-sent'rtsstcmue   stt                                        ae   o   eaalbrfrea
qufteentefor ll,igccootnt  sedtaitebo   by.. hSI  proid  tnt.. mito                        peOrFOREntgeo   ca,ml  n   oaeppltn    falagsreef
alateohIgrteo  totli phtnlnflpot6 day end9 00 tnds1of9sdftel and                       1960,o1971. sod 1979 data.  T-est ateibased orJv    --0'e prtOOpadinst
pu.lse proteSt, of  Im.1 gfane shouldh  onaabl  poen               beesad Inflsutyn   age-sen tonotuI                     e  f she. poplation, ind -long. tfmetoend
an,mal prtIn as,, an snenlge fI.h old   ryedbyFGS  h :uPfod                                foonomfcdDsOeodiecy Satin F  -1 natlof   populatIon  un to  5 1n 65bc and une
Onl .od  uny  191-5  17  sod 1977_data                                                 tot  the octal Dabon..t trots.l In
tet nadnayoronan   50mbf .n aIma and  01.0i-IFo.redn suply  of1 foo  de-l                                                                 S.    --d   - -
otoY nmaiasanh           ussS   rm    erdy   016,17  end 1977 daa.                      IcnqDDfISOIl
at~~~~~~~' bithI96,191an   97  dt,                                                         o  soldb    inoepee  olhontealeauin
of Pnti"  thoulynd 1197foa                                                                   u     Indiute povety  nnaSolS  ha   ooaln)hl    hc                       iia
eater auth as thoc from protanted horeholes, springs,2 sod saitary  tiIf)t Octa   roanc   ynnro  t Indma               1 lootS  o one- bir  of 1 en gaee   ayt
pecfaeso  h    hin h tepcan   poplatra    nnuhnoaph. i                                yfrooal    g..... Itt-e ut.ry.        Patlocel- Os d d 1-oa   tons       ~ Ah us
fountInInoPt..ndys   otdntmr  Ihao000   eter pf,nnmoT hones may' ho60 lee   ntadutatdt  itrca  c                                                ai  ubnae
hosloed0  bein       Ifbi  7sanohi .....sIofl So, os.I   oa   resftmndFnliorlioaeln   ont Incm   ae   rosr
resnal                 1961t s 6ul  1970httehaaof   raasr   ftebushl                             o   oa  Inrco197o7potulatcc  Iur             i- sod  -- rul   hc sot "absolut
dorttc  tospnd a   .a flptnnlrae     to t  he1    .  day  It  ecigthe z,              Foot".                       ..
faintly'' s                                                                            t.   h.ot..eIr toods.l.
Anc-deSiucc lt Disnsal torcot o               o uatr-tncal unba,PtY  total d -
theild    cto    o  dsoa,  tbo  sinou  trast19e1t6, uf 7 hmnd 197t7t  IconIcNandEncDISTatsBUTIOtN
lan Snatis-lhotSndtsh.P--hay 196d1i
Poonlatio  ret FtysSan- Fhpldttointh lIodad by  Puo;r f  yradctnc poa physt-"'-  Fi-    n                                 Ih  n-
cisnaqudltftd-idfnooamlitsiecbunlar196 ceostndleied.
Poyulaitou yen nunaSta yerent- Popuhatio  d Ind d byh 'no   f  rctcn
aaheandfeeolegrodoarooursos.pouctttslnuoooe.snd  aP Ietooures



- 22-                                                ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAI PRODUCT IN 1980                                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.          7                              1960-67      1967-74       1974-80       1980
GNP at Market Prices                  1,416.9         10C.0                               3.5          1,8          6.8         -1.2
Gross Domestic Investment               210.8          14.9                               6.1I/       -2.1          8.2         -3.7
Gross National Saving                   -16.8          -1.2                              -8.1       -16.2j,        3.52        33 .3-
Current Account Balance                -261.5        -18.5                              -15.5_/       -6.6         -1.2-         5.4-
Exports of Goods, NFS                   268.3         18.9                               12.0          2.8         11.6         25.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                   529.8         37.4                               13.7          4.9          6.2          9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added                         Labor Force 4/                  V.A. Per Worker
U5S Mln.                             _ Mln.        ,I                    US$        % 5/
Agriculture                           588.2             41.9                 3.28         88.4                   179      47.2
Industry                              145.5             10.4                0.18           4.9                   808    213.2
Services                              672.0            47.8                 0.25           6.7                 2,688    709.2
3/
Total/average -             1,406.1            100.0                 3.71        100.0                   379    100.0
('OVERNMENT FINANCE 6/
General Government                  Central Government
(MF Bln.)            X of GDP -        MF Bln.)        Z of GDP
1980            1980   1977-79        1980       1980    1977-79
Current Receipts                        97.9             16.5       14.0        59.4      10.0       11.6
Current Expenditures                 _114.QZ/            19.2       15.1        80.9-    13.6        13.3
Current Surplus                        -16.1             -2.7       -1Li       -21.54/   -3.6        -1.7
Capital Expenditures                     2.5A/            0.4        0.8         2.5-      0.4        0.8
External Assistance (net)               73.4             12.4       15.0        14.2       2.4        1.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES-/            1977               1978          1979            1980           1980         1981
March        March
(Billion MF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                 83.6              103.0         120.2            125.6         132.3         131.0
Bank Credit to Government             94.4               96.8         101.8             99.4         101.9         101.0
Bank Credit to Economy               107.2              131.6         152.2            164.0         162.3         174.2
(of which State Enterprises)       (64.4)            (71.9)         (89.2)         (104.6)         (86.1)       (114.5)
Money and Quasi Money as Z GDP- /   21.1                 24.3          22.9             21.1
General Price Index (1977=100) -   10.0.0               109.7         122.4           140.4
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    7.7                9.7          11.6             14.7
Bank Credit to Government             31.1                2.5           5.2             -2.4
Bank Credit to EcDnomy               -12.5               22.8          15.7              7 .8
(of which State Enterprises)       (-25.1)            (11.6)         (24.1)          (17.3)
Note:    All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Not available indicated by ".." and not applicable, by".
1/      Net factor income is not available in constant prices;  therefore these growth rates are for gross
domestic savings.
2/      A negative sign indicates a growing current account deficit.
3/      Figures may not sum to totals because of rounding.
4/      Preliminary estimates subject to revision.
5/      Percent of country average.
6/      1980 figures not strictly comparable to those for 1977-79; 1979 is provisional.
7/      Includes 4.0 for accrued but unpaid expenditures and net unallocated expenditures
8/      From International Financial Statistics.
9/      Based on year-end levels, not monthly averages
10/      GDP deflator.
March 25. 1982



23-
ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, FOB (AVERAGE 1978-80)
1978                1979                1980                                                 US$ Mln.   %
(Millions US$)
Exports of goods, NFS                          144.5               193.0                268.3             Cotton and products                  79.3    51.4
Imports of goods, NES                          339.5               434.1                529.8              Livestock and products              43.5    28.2
Resource gap (deficit = -)                    -195.0              -241.1               -261.5              Groundnuts and products              8.1      5.2
Fish (dried and smoked)              2.1      1.4
Factor Payments (net)                          -10.9               -11.8                -14.4              All other co. sodities              21.4    13.9
Private Transfers (net)                         37.1                32.2                 35.0                  Total                          154.4   100.0
Balance on Current Account                    -168.8              -220.7               -240.9
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECE24BER 31, 19806/
Government Transfer (net)                      103.9               106.7                108.3                                                     US$ Mln.
MLT Capital (net)2/
Receipts                                   71.7                91.9                124.2                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        852.6
(cf which public debt)                 (68.7)               (75.0)              (84.8)                 (of which disbursed)              (621.1)-
Payments                                  -19.3               -15.7               -18.6
(of which public debt)                 ( 8.7)               (8.8)              (11.1)
Subtotal                                   52.4                7                  105.6              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1980 -
Other items, n.i.e.                             -8.7                  1.9               -13.8                                                           I
Increase in Reserves (+)                       -21.2               -36.4               -40.8
Public Debt, intl. guaranteed             4.1
Gross Reserves (end year)-                       855 S.8                                 15.3
Net Reserve (end year) 3'41                   -229.4              -258.5               -248.9              IBD/IDA LENDING, AUGUST 31, 1981 (Million 12$):
IBRD           IDA
imports of petroleum                            43.7                55.5                 82.8
Imports of foodstuffs-'                         52.3                47.9                 78.8              Outstanding & Disbursed          0.0           130.0
Undisbursed                      0.0            69.8
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 0.0              199.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE
US$ 1.00  =  NF:                            451.27              425.45              422.60
MF  100   =  US5:                             0.22                0.24                0.24
(As of August, 1981:  US$ 1.00 = MF 598.15
MF  100  = US$  0.17)
NOTE:  Not available indicated by ".." and not applicable by
1/ Trade data from World Bank; factor payments, transfers, and capital flows from various IMF sources.
2/ Includes investment and borrowing. .
3I Converted at end of period exchange rates.
4/ Net foreign assets of banking system; differences between years do not necessarily correspond to changes in reserves,
in part because different exchange rates may be used.
5/ Includes food aid.
6/ Medium and long-term.
7/ Includes US5$ 141.2 million in arrears on principal and interest.
8/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
March 25. 1982



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at April 30, 1982
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                    Amount
Number      Year      Purpose                          IDA      Undisbursed
-----US$ million----
Ten  Credits fully disbursed                          61.6
383-1-MLI  1975   Second Highway                       8.3 /1       1.04
538-MLI    1975   Livestock                           13.3          1.91
599-MLI    1976   Third Highway                       10.0          0.36
669-MLI    1977   Mali-Sud Agricultural               15.5          3.41
713-MLI    1977   Railway III                         10.5          3.95
733-MLI    1978   Education II                        10.0          3.16
753-MLI    1978   Mopti Rice II                       15.0          0.81
854-MLI    1979   Technical Assistance                 4.5          0.46
883-MLI    1979   Forestry                             4.5          2.86
943-MLI    1979   Urban Development                   12.0          7.57
986-MLI    1980   Industrial Sector Development    8.0              7.20
1104-MLI   1981   Road Maintenance                    17.0         16.50
1134-MLI   1981   Petroleum Exploration Promotion  3.7              3.60
1174-ML1   1982   ODIPAC Technical Assistance          6.5          6.50 /2
1200-MLI   1982   Second Telecommunications           13.5         13.50 /2
213.9         72.83
of which has been repaid            0.7
Total now held by IDA*                               213.7
Total undisbursed                                                  72.83
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
/1   Supplementary Credit to Credit 383-MLI.
/2   The Credit was signed on April 30, 1982 and is not yet effective.



- 25 -                             ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment as at March 31, 1982
Loan                                                      Amount
Number   Year   Borrower                    Purpose         of Loan   Undisbursed
-----US$ million-----
403-MLI  1978   Societe Mamadou
Sada Diallo et Fils       Bleach and
Plastic
Products           0.6         0.0
612-MLI  1982   Societe Industrielle        Sheanut butter
de Karite du Mali, S.A.  for export           2.6        2.6 1/
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1982 2/
Credit 538-MLI       Livestock Project.  US$13.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of (a) introduction at livestock extension
services and grazing control schemes in three selected areas (b) provision
for animal health services, (c) construction of 50 ponds and 70 wells, (d)
construction of one slaughter house (e) provision for five livestock markets,
(f) development of a pasture trial station (g) implementation of a training
and functional literacy program and (h) preparation of a follow-up project.
Although most components were successfully executed, there was no progress on
the more innovative aspects, i.e. those elements aimed at establishing the
rational use of land and water in the livestock area. Therefore remaining
funds under the Credit have been focussed on financing the necessary research
and pilot schemes, and on strengthening sector institutions, in order to lay a
sound basis for an eventual follow-up project.
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 669-MLI       Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of (a) expansion of agricultural production in
the project area: cotton, kenaf, maize and rice; (b) studies; (c) applied
research; (d) development of livestock; and (e) strengthening of public health
services. Project activities are progressing satisfactorily and have been
extended to millet and sorghum. Except for rice, production is beyond apprai-
sal estimates. Village Mutual Guarantee Groups and a blacksmith network are
being developed beyond expectations. Major financial difficulties for the
implementing agency arose in early 1981 as a result of inadequate adjustments
in the cotton price structure by Government; in April, however, the immediate
financial problem was solved by removal of input subsidies borne by the
agency.
Credit 713-MLI       Third Railway Project.  US$10.5 million Credit of
June 10, 1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the bridge rehabilitation and repair program,
the project-s main component, was finally set in motion in December 1979.
The remaining small bridges, which had to be excluded from the project as
the bid price exceeded the anticipated cost, will be financed with an
EEC Special Action Credit for US$10 million. Mali Railways (CFM) main
capacity and operational constraint continues to be the low availability of
locomotives. This had thwarted efforts to increase CFM's utilization of
imports from Dakar, where high stocks of Mali-bound products accumulated at
the port awaiting transport to Bamako. The shortage of locomotive power
was worsened by a collision in December 1979, leaving a gap which can only
be filled by augmenting the locomotive fleet. This is envisaged with funds
available under the EEC Special Action Credit.
Credit 733-MLI       Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
To contain cost overruns caused essentially by construction delays
of about two years, the Government has requested the deletion of the construc-
tion of the National Institute for Management (IPGP), extension facilities for
a Teacher Training College and housing for literacy supervisors. The deletion
is equal to 10.4 percent of the original project cost estimates. Construction
is completed for all other components except the Livestock Technician Training
Center (EIV) which is expected to be completed by July 1982. The functional
literacy program is proceeding satisfactorily. New curricula are being
launched in nine experimental rural lower secondary schools. New programs for
the Agricultural Training Centers and for the EIV are being prepared by a team
of three technical assistants working in collaboration with Malian teams.
Training of teachers and preparation of new programs for IPGP is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 27 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 753-MLI       Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977; Effective Date: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The project consists of construction of new polders (8,000 ha) and
consolidation and improvement of existing polders (26,200 ha) for rice culti-
vation under controlled flooding. Main components are civil works; deep
ploughing; building; farm machinery and civil works maintenance; agricultural
credit; applied agricultural research; technical assistance for ORM and adult
literacy program. The project also provides assistance to the Study Bureau of
the Genie Rural. In general, the physical progress is satisfactory, despite
some delays in earthmoving works, deep ploughing, buildings, and hydraulic
structure implementation.
Credit 854-MLI       Office du Niger - Technical Assistance/Engineering
Project. US$4.5 million Credit of October 30,
1978; Effective Date: January 31, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project was designed to prepare (a) an infrastructure rehabilita-
tion program, (b) a pilot program of on-farm works (1,500 ha), and (c) urgent
spot repairs of the irrigation infrastructure. The technical assistance
project consists of (1) engineering services to prepare plans required for the
appraisal of an infrastructure rehabilitation program, (2) training of irriga-
tion construction personnel, (3) audit, (4) livestock studies, (5) research
and (6) a socio-economic study of the settler population. Except for the
Kogoni rice research station equipment, all project components are underway
and proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Due to initial problems, the project
has fallen behind schedule, but some delays can be made up within the remaining
months of the project.
Credit 883-MLI       Forestry Project.  US$4.5 million Credit of May 25,
1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A five year program to increase fuelwood and building pole supplies
would establish 3,400 ha of industrial rainfed tree plantations near Bamako
and on a trial basis, 60 ha of rainfed and 70 ha of partially irrigated
plantations near Mopti; apply modern forest management techniques on 1,200 ha
of natural forest; establish three rural forestry nurseries and rehabilitate a
fourth, and carry out studies of more efficient wood use and ways to involve
local population in rural forest activities. Technical experts' services
would supplement the staff of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development to assist with the implementation of the forestry program. The
project has started satisfactorily, but a problem has recently developed with
respect to availability of Government counterpart funds.



- 28 -                            ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 943-MLI       Urban Development Project.  US$12.0 million Credit of
November 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will assist Government in providing affordable urban
services to low income urban residents. For the capital city of Bamako, the
project provides shelter, services and related community facilities for about
44,000 low income residents; improves health and sanitary conditions; and
carries out an investment study. In addition, new institutions will be
created and outside expertise utilized to strengthen and develop the urban
setor.  Market facilities and financial assistance for the informal sector and
promotion of local building materials would aid local entrepreneurs.   The
secondary centers of Mopti, Kayes and Gao will receive essential water and
sanitation services. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 986-MLI       Industrial Sector Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of May 23, 1980. Effective Date: September 26,
1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of support to the private industrial and
traditional sector, including a US$3.5 million line of credit and a comprehen-
sive institution building program; and the rehabilitation and expansion of
Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB), Malis sole producer of pasteurized milk
products. All components have been initiated satisfactorily except the ULB
expansion program which has been delayed primarily because of ULB financing
constraints.
Credit 1104-MLI      Road Maintenance Project.  SDR 13.4 million Credit of
March 11, 1981. Effective Date: September 10, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project consists of urgently needed maintenance on 6,600 km of
roads and periodic maintenance works on 900 km of roads. It includes
strengthening of the Equipment Service and Training Center of the Ministry 3f
Transport and Public Works and assistance to the Ministry in setting up a
transport data collection unit. A program of vehicle axle-load control would
be initiated under the project.
Credit 1134-MLI    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, SDR 3.1 million
Credit of April 29, 1981. Effective Date: October 29, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project provides technical assistance to help monitor ongoing
exploration by oil companies and interpret the results of this exploration.
Experts have been engaged to investigate known oil shale deposits, and to help
elaborate a national energy policy. The supervision mission, in the field in
March, decided in agreement with the Government and after reviewing previously
undertaken quality tests to reduce the scope of the drilling campaign and to
suppress the study of mining method as well as the pre-feasibility study.



- 29 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
POWER/WATER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of key events
(a)  Project preparation:                   January/February 1979
by Government/IDA
(b)  Appraisal mission:                     June 1980
(c)  Post appraisal missions:               December 1980, April 1981
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:  May 1982
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:         September 1982
Section II: Special IDA implementing action
None
Section III: Special conditions
A. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(i) EDM will recruit a project coordinator whose qualifications are
acceptable to the Association (paras. 35 and 40);
(ii) EDM will sign a contract for the provision of a team of experts to
assist EDM's management, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
(paras. 35-37);
(iii) IDA will be notifed by FAC, CCCE and OPEC Fund that all conditions
precedent to the disbursement of their respective grants or loans
(except for the effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit) have been
fulfilled (para. 39); and
(iv) Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
EDM (para 49).
B. Other Conditions
(i) EDM will implement a complete cost accounting system to allow
separated financial management and accounts of the power and the
water sectors by January 1, 1984 (para. 26);
(ii) By December 31, 1982, the Government will furnish to EDM appropriate
values for all public assets operated in the water sector by EDM
(para. 26);



- 30 -                              ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii) For FY82 EDM will provide: (a) a brief joint report on EDM's
account by EDM and the accounting consulting firm hired under
the project; and (b) an external audit of the Project related
expenditure. Beginning in FY83, audited annual accounts will be
made available to IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal
year (para. 41);
(iv)  EDM will revalue assets in operation in the power and in the water
sectors on a pro forma basis, using a methodology satisfactory to
IDA, by December 31, 1983 (para. 45);
(v) The Government will: (a) continue its recently introduced policy
of paying electricity/water bills on time; (b) continue to support
disconnection policy for all consumers; (c) ensure that budgets for
FY82 and subsequent years will contain sufficient funds for payment
of power and water supply by all Government agencies; (d) set-up
appropriate arrangements by September 30, 1982 for municipalities
and state enterprises to pay their bills; and (e) take appropriate
action to reduce the arrears of the state enterprises, and agencies
and the municipalities to no more than 2 months of billing by
December 31, 1982 and June 30, 1983 respectively (para. 46);
(vi) EDM will: (a) implement a commercial improvement program satis-
factory to IDA; (b) reduce total consumer arrears to 3 months
of billing by year-end 1982, and to no more than 2 months of
billing by year-end 1983 onwards (para. 46);
(vii) A power tariff study and a water tariff study taking into account
marginal cost of supply and financial requirements will be completed
for an exchange of views with IDA before December 31, 1983 (para. 48);
(viii) Beginning in FY84, EDM would take appropriate managerial and tariff
actions so that its net cash generation be sufficient to finance not
less than 10 percent of annual capital expenditures for the power
and water sectors individually. In order to achieve the above
minimum targets, EDM will: (a) by July 1, 1982, increase electri-
city tariffs by an additional 8 percent; (b) automatically adjust
tariffs to cover any changes in the cost of purchased electricity;
(c) automatically adjust tariffs to compensate for increases in the
cost of operations due to inflation; and (d) by April 1, 1983,
increase water tariffs by 10 percent (para. 49);
(ix) Government will on-lend proceeds of the Credit to EDM, at 9.6 per-
cent interest rate, for a period of 20 years including 5 years'
grace. As the financial condition of EDM permits, however, the 9.6
percent interest rate will be reviewed annually by the Government
and IDA with a view to its progressive modification to conform to
the then generally applicable relending rate for IDA credits (para.
50);



- 31 -                              ANNEX III
Page 3
(x) The Government and EDM will: (a) exchange views with IDA on the
costs and benefits and economic justification, before incurring any
debt in excess of US$1 million for each operation on behalf of the
power or of the urban water sectors, and (b) submit to IDA annually,
by March 31 a program detailing all investments planned in the power
and the water sectors, and corresponding sources of local and foreign
funds, for the next three years (para. 51); and
(xi) The Government will assume the debt service on facilities in the
public domain which until now has been covered by EDM (para. 51).






I Th,o  -ap bho been preprd by the 
12                           8           \                40                            World Banbo dotaeffooluio,ced4y o,  .            .... ...
the conven-ince o the readers  ;.
thrport to ehich ,ts  ~ttached
-24'                                                                                                                The d-nOttn sedandthe.
\,  ,qdo  not I tnp oh pad   0f the
World Book -nd at ONf,tao,syILl
I                       '.,.\    (               judgment on tht tgal statUS ofz
REPUBLIC  OF MALI                                                                                -p C  accoeet-afo-r-i.oS  . .'.. '.  YA  F R I C A
WATER/POWER PROJECT !
ENERGIE DU MALI                                  I                                                                     A-SA*trIc
EXISTING    PROJECT   PROPOSED                                                                                                    L
PROJECT AREAS                      '   .    SWAMP                                                                            /
200                        vllmll-l DAMS                            *        -      RIVERS                                        '\,a%s                        /   20
__ -- - -220 kV TRANSMISSION LINE                0      REGIONAL CAPITALS
150 kV TRANSMISSION LINES            (9      NATIONAL CAPITALS
* *                          POWER PLANTS                 ,               REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
_- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
L. Faguibi ne
0     100    200    300    400    500
- 1 6o                                       1      1                                                               Goo& L                                           1 6,-
KILOMETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~BOMS
MAA/NA                10           0/P 5Afi  .- >-u (;; >-
SENEGAL 4        
rs BAMK       c
' )   *   ,   (  }  <  BAM> >-m    g              --s)    t~~~~~~~~~~J P P E R   V O L T A                 99 
-12'<                                                 -     %/\)                                                                            X                        12
C      HX                 ) @         {SH    X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sikasso)                                        z                    C       ERIA
G -.---N4<   WRY  COX  v>,  i 3TOGob G 2 <
,e,G           ANA             TOGO63?






MALI                         1\s<
-a*e            WATER / POWER PROJECT    !                                                                                  4 (r-. MAL 
URBAN WATER SUPPL SITUATION   \-                                                                                     c3
1;.Urnier E DM m*"negernet                                                       A L G E R I A                      ARCA
U i Ud*r loccl government oporation      j                                  .) 
. ~~~~System  sxtensfmn $6ese  under nat     s
M F         S~ yowr pwrWo                                                                                                             J-a
2 15   -    Rfvers                                i                                                                            V.t
Fbould wores 
-^-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inTrnomwlbouctoue * 
2oe~ ~ ~~M A -Ut R t   AN  I  .
, * [w /w l -l . /.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"N I.       E
#*s"*gsefVSerrtr*ihichstzsf. ~ ~ ~   ~      L e*eie;uSevareS
ArIL                sh                                        0ts 4e lrfROfwr#*Wt  
bte. grAr9eee srrBFofoulrerye zFeXtw 
ettsfae fsgbh*0e
. , .., ', ''in                          In ' '.e'-
.'~    ~~ '                      ''       ''     I                     
<                                                  | .     ,tombolJctou'    f f -<- :- ~~~~~~~~~ 0 
5EtNE-G L         ,o eAg 0                                                       _i-   
Z AOBafoultzbe ;' - - . . 'Mg-rlz5z : ;0qfT  ,.
,SA                                                                                      UPO'R    VOLTA                                   NIGERIAKtS   Sgoe l  -\*{> 
G  U  li N  E A                   '  iaBo~ugount,                             .,E                -,                      t     
a/>- -- J a- < M 1 8 \ ~~~~~BENIN   ir
-  - -s i   S  -Nw>Ce  4/v                                    .'GHANA                       -                                       _
>        ,+tE~~RRA LEONE"                 bIVQRY  COAST            *      4--                                  GOG                     v       



