Document of                          Z - -     2 "-
24-
The World Bank                      f  E
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 3227-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
POWER/WATER PROJECT
June 10, 1982
Regional Prjocts Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Malian Franc (MF) 1/
US$1.00          =    MF 500
MF 1              =    US$0.0020
MF 1000           =    US$2.0
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -    African Development Bank
CCCE  -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEAO  -    Communaute Economique de 1-Afrique de l'Ouest
DHE   -    Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie
ECICA -    Ecole Centrale pour l'Industrie, le Commerce
et l'Administration
EDF   -    Electricite de France
EDM   -    Energie du Mali
ENA   -    Ecole Nationale d-Administration
ENI   -    Ecole Nationale d-Ingenieurs
FAC   -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED   -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
KfW   -    Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
OMVS  -    Organisation de Mise en Valeur du fleuve Senegal
OPEC  -    Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
One Kilovolt (kV)                =    1,000 Volts
One Megawatt (MW)                =    1,000 Kilowatts (kW)
One Gigawatt Hour (GWh)          =    1 million Kilowatts hours (kWh)
One Ton Oil Equivalent (TOE)    =    Approximately 7.33 barrels of crude oil
One Kilo calorie (kcal)          =    3.97 British thermal units (BTU)
EDM-s fiscal year is the calendar year.
1/ The Malian Franc is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of one French
Franc to 100 Malian Francs. The French Franc is currently floating.



REPUBLIC OF MALI                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT FOR POWER/WATER PROJECT
OUTLINE OF REPORT
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION   . * ..........................                                      ...                       1
II.  THE ENERGY AND WATER SUPPLY SECTORS .......................                                                     2
Country  Energy  Outlook  ........ . . . . . . . .   * .................             . . .......    ...  .  2
Water  Supply  and  Sanitation   .............                                     ..........               3
Sectors'  Organization  ....................................                                                3
The  Electric  Power  Market   ....... .     .* ..............................  .                           4
Existing  Electric  Power  Facilities                                   ............   .......              5
Existing  Water  Supply  Facilities   .................                 ft... f...............f.......f     6
Tariffs   ft ff t ff f                            ff ft fff..........................................t........  7
Sectors'  Planning   .f..                 ft...ffffffffftttttt.......................... t ttt.............  7
Power  Sector  Planning                                              ftft ftft.......................... t.......t  7
Water  Supply  Sector  Planning   ...................................       ................           8
III.       THE  IMPLEMENTING  AGENCY  ........................ o..ft.........                                   ,       9
Background                                                           ft................................................  9
Concession  System  ftftftftftftftftff............ f          .......... a .. ... t  ..........             9
Management,   Organization  and  Operations   ............ ft.....................f                        10
Staffing  and  Manpower  Requirements                                 .......................             11
Training   .ft f         fft                  f    f     fft................................................  11
Technical  Assistance   fftfffttffftffftffffttt.......................... f..........                     13
Metering,   Billing  and  Collection                               .........................              15
Accounting  and  Information  System   ...........                                .............           16
Budgeting  ..................................    ft  .......                                         17
Audits  .................  17
Insurance   .............................................                                            17
IV.        THE  PROJECT_ROJECT...fft                                         ft                     .......           18
The  Program  and  the Project  ...............................                                            18
Program   Objectives  ........................... I .                                   .      .19
Project  Composition  ............................                                    ft .......          19
Technical Assistance Component .                                                                     19
Power  Component ..............                           .  ,.....................                  20
Water  Supply  Component  ................................t21
General Plant Component .                                                                            21
Studies  Component   .................                          ..................                   22
Project Management                                                                                   22
Project  Costs   .......................................                                                  23
Project  Financing  ................................  f.....                                              25
Project Execution .                                                                                       26
Project  Implementation Schedule   ............................          .    . .           t             27
Project Monitoring and Reporting .                                                                        27
Procurement   ..............................................                                              27
Disbursement   .............................................                                              28
Environmental Impact ..29
Project  Risks   ............................................                                              29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents cont.
V.    ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ....................................    30
Power Components .........................................    30
Rehabilitation and Extension of Bamako
System   ............................................    30
Mopti/Sevare Biomass Power Scheme ....      ...............    31
Water Supply Component ...................................       32
Technical Assistance .....................................    32
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................................    33
Introduction .........      ....................................  33
Background: Status of Assets in the Concession System.....    33
Past Earnings ............................................       35
Present Financial Position ...............................    36
Tariffs ............     ......................................  38
Revenue Covenant .........................................    39
Financial Projections ....................................    40
Future Finances ..........................................       41
VII.   SUMMARY OF PROPOSED AGREEMENTS AND COVENANTS .43
Assurances and Covenants .43
Recommendations .45
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.1  Documents and Data Available in the Project File .46
2.1 Bamako Electric System - Actual and Projected Generation,
Peak Demand, System Capability and Energy Sales                47
2.2 Electric Systems in Provincial Centers (Excepting Segou-
Markala and Mopti-Sevare) - Actual and Projected
Generation and Energy Sales .48
3.1 Organization Chart of EDM.                                          49
3.2  Summary of the Rehabilitation Plan for EDM    .       .50
4.1  Breakdown of Technical Assistance Costs    .        .51
4.2  Project Monitoring and Reporting Requirements   .      .52



- iii -
List of Annexes (continued)
5.1 Extension of Bamako Distribution - Tabulation for Rate of
Return Calculation .....................................            53
5.2 Mopti/Sevare Biomass Power Plant - Tabulation for Rate of
Return Calculation .....................................            54
5.3 Water Supply Component - Tabulation for Rate ofE Return
Calculation ............................................           55
6.1  Income Statements Power ...................................            56
6.2  Income Statements Water ...................................            57
6.3  Consolidated Income Statements ............................            58
6.4  Balance Sheets ............................................            59
6.5  Sources and Applications of Funds .........................            60
6.6  Assumptions for Financial Projections .....................            61
Map of Mali--Power Sector (IBRD 15332)
Map of Mali--Water Supply Sector (IBRD 15472)



I



REPUBLIC OF MALI
Energie du Mali
First Power/Water Project
I. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Mali has requested the International Development
Association (IDA) to participate with Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE), the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the OPEC Special Fund in
the financing of the first phase (the project) of a two-phase program designed
to rehabilitate and extend the services of Energie du Mali (EDM), the para-
statal water supply and power utility. The project, which is centered around
a core of technical assistance to redress EDM's current managerial and opera-
tionLal problems, would permit better use of Mali's renewable energy resources
by extending the service area and coverage of the Selingue hydroelectric power
scheme, commissioned in August 1981, and by the use of agricultural residues
for power production in a biomass plant to be built at Mopti/Sevare. Besides
provriding for urgent improvements in Bamako's water supply system, the project
wil:L also cover project preparation works for the second phase of EDM's reha-
bil:Ltation program. Total cost of the project is estimated at US$43.20 mil-
lion, including contingencies, with a foreign component of US$41.25 million.
1.02      The Government has asked IDA to assist in financing the foreign
exchange cost of: (i) the technical assistance component; (ii) the rehabili-
tation of the Dar Salam diesel electric power plant in Bamako; (iii) a commu-
nication system by power line carrier between the Bamako end of the transmis-
sioni line from Selingue and the Dar Salam and Sotuba power plants in Bamako;
(iv) the strengthening of the Bamako distribution system and a first phase of
extensions; (v) urgent works in Bamako's water supply system; (vi) service
vehicles, tools, and office furnitures; and (vii) pre-construction design
studies for extension of the Sotuba hydroplant, the Bamako-Segou transmission
link, and the extension of the Bamako water supply system. An IDA credit of
US$24.00 million is proposed for this project. The beneficiary and implement-
ing agency would be EDM. Proceeds of the credit would be onlent by Government
to EDM at 9.6% interest rate, over a period of 20 years, with a 5-year grace
period. However, the 9.6% rate shall be reviewed annually by the Government
and IDA, as the financial conditon of EDM permits, with a view to its progres-
sive modification to conform to the then generally applicable relending rate
for proceeds of IDA's credits (para. 6.19). CCCE/FAC would finance 50%
(US$10.8 million) of the total combined foreign exchange cost of the technical
assistance component and rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant; and the
OPEC Special Fund loan -- US$6.45 million--would finance the proposed biomass
power plant at Mopti/Sevare (Table 4.2).
1.03      The Malian request for IDA to participate in financing a power
investment program dates back to mid-1977. A Basic Health Needs mission in
Jur,e 1978 identified justification for IDA assistance in the water/sanitation
sector. A full project identification mission visited Bamako in January/
February 1979 and discussed possible components of a water/power project and



-2-
the means of preparing it. The identification mission agreed with the
Government on the scope of the studies needed to prepare a project. The
total cost of these studies was estimated at US$0.97 million, almost all in
foreign exchange. The Government subsequently requested an advance for this
amount from IDA's Project Preparation Facility, which was granted in October,
1979. The project was appraised in June 1980 and post-appraised in April 1981
because of change in management. This report is based on the findings of the
appraisal and subsequent post appraisal missions and detailed studies of EDM's
technical assistance needs which were done by a team of specialists from
Electricite de France (EDF). Documents and data available in the Project File
are listed in Annex 1.1.
II. The Energy and Water Supply Sectors
Country Energy Outlook
2.01      Mali's hydroelectric potential is estimated at 10,000 GWh per annum,
of which less than 0.3% has been developed so far. Although Mali is not
endowed with abundant forests, firewood constitutes the main source of non-
commercial energy. Limited use is now being made of agricultural residues as
an energy source in sugar production (bagasse) and cotton ginning. A project
to produce ethanol from surplus molasses at two refineries seems feasible,
and the Bank Group has agreed to assist financially in project preparation.
Ethanol from this project could replace about 5% of Mali's current gasoline
consumption. Solar energy is being used experimentally in a number of small
water pumping installations. Exploration and drilling for oil has taken place
in Mali's four main sedimentary basins, but these efforts are insufficient to
reach definite conclusions. A PPF-financed study concluded that a detailed
field survey and drilling would be needed to evaluate the oil-bearing possibili-
ties of the Taoudeni Basin, which is the most promising of these sedimentary
basins. The Bank Group is currently financing a petroleum exploration project
for this purpose.
2.02      In the meantime, Mali has to rely on its precarious supply of
firewood (2.2 million tons per year), some hydroelectricity (30 GWh per year),
and import of petroleum products (159,000 tons in 1979). Mali's total current
energy consumption is 690,000 TOE per year, which, for a population of six
million, represents only 115 kg per capita, among the lowest energy usage in
the world.
2.03      Electric service is supplied to 28,000 consumers in Bamako and
in ten lesser urban areas. Assuming an average of ten persons per consumer
connection, electric service is supplied to 280,000 people, which is about 30%
of the urban population of Mali and less than 5% of its total population.
Electric service in rural areas is minimal. The proposed project includes
financing of a study to survey the needs and possibilities of rural electri-
fication (para. 3.21 (v)).



-3-
Water Supply and Sanitation
2.04      According to a recent basic needs study, about 20% of the urban
population in Mali is adequately served by water supply; 12 towns have
distribution systems executed or extended over the past ten years. These
systems, however, serve only a small percentage of the population. Bamako,
the capital city, has the largest level of service with 40% of the population
served about equally between standpipes and connections. It is estimated that
only 25% of the rural population is served by boreholes and water wells, but
many rural water supply programs providing a water point are under way or
about to start with multi- or bilateral aid. The Association is currently
assisting Mali in preparing a rural water supply project parallel to a health
project in the western part of the country. There are no sewerage disposal
systems in any town, and Bamako's limited drainage system is clogged due to
lack of maintenance.
Sectors' Organization
2.05      Governmental institutions involved in the two sectors are:  Direction
de! l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie (DHE) under the Ministry of Industrial Devel-
opment, the Selingue Authority under the same ministry, and EDM under the
Ministry of State Enterprises. DHE is theoretically responsible for planning
and implementation of water supply projects and large power schemes, but in
fact does little planning and only implements water supply projects. The
coordination between DHE and EDM on new system and reinforcement planning has
been very weak, to the extent that EDM is informed of the new assets it must
take over only when works are completed. The Selingue Authority is currently
operating the Selingue 44 MW hydropower project commissioned in August 1981.
The Authority's revenues will derive essentially from sales of energy to EDM,
and will be used to pay operating expenses of the entity and to service the
de!bt incurred by loans used to finance the construction of the dam, power
plant, and transmission to Bamako.  EDM, which was created in 1961, is
conceded water and electric power installations for their management and
operation (para. 3.02). EDM-s shareholders are the Government with 55%
participation, and French public interests (EDF and CCCE) with 45%.
2.06      In the last five years EDM has been in disarray through a combina-
tion of circumstances, but mainly because of lack of leadership, neglect,
arnd financial problems originating from the large increase in petroleum
fuel prices after 1973/74 and difficulty in collecting revenues, particu-
larly from governmental departments and agencies. These problems are
analyzed in Chapter III, together with other aspects of EDM's organization
and overall management.
2.07      IDA considers that as a long term strategy it would be desirable
that: (i) power and water activities be split and managed separately; and,
(ii) that the power sector (EDM and the Selingue Authority) be united under a
single entity with investment planning and financing responsibilities. How-
ever, in the short and medium terms only the rehabilitation and strengthen-
ing of EDM can be considered a realistic target as described in paras. 4.01



-4-
and 4.02. The long term objectives will be addressed in the secona power
project, which is expected to help finance Phase II of the program. To
prepare this long term approach, the proposed project includes the financin6
of studies to: look into the advantages and disadvantages of a single power
entity versus the current organization of combinea power and water entity
(para. 3.21 (vii)); and (b) assess the advantages and disadvantages of con-
tinuing with the concession system for EDM (para. 3.03).
The Electric Power Market
2.08      No interconnection exists between Mali's electric systems, and
public supply of electricity is heavily concentrated in the hydro-thermal
system supplying Bamako and the surrounding towns of Kati and Koulikouro as
shown in the following table: 1/
Table 2.1: EDM -- ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION AND GENERATION IN 1979
Consumption                   GWh              Y. of Total
Bamako/surroundings          72.4                 86%
Segou/Markala                 3.3                  4%
Mopti/Sevare                  1.4                  2%
Other urban areas             6.7                  8%
Subtotal                83.8                100%     63%
Losses, unaccounted for
and own use           17.5                         17Z
TOTAL                  101.3                         UO1%
Generation
Hydro                        34.6                 34%
Thermal (diesel)             66.7                 66%
TOTAL                  101.3                100%
Source: EDM--Statistiques Analytiques.
2.09      Consumption of electricity from the public supply is roughly
divided equally between medium-voltage and low-voltage consumers. Medium
voltage consumers are essentially industrial customers and governmental
1/ See Annexes 2.1 and 2.2 for actual (1976/79) and projected (1980/88)
generation and energy sales.



agencies, while low voltage consumers are mainly residential and commercial
users. For 1979, consumption was divided approximately as follows: resi-
dential and commercial, 42X; industrial, 36%; governmental departments and
agencies, 15%; EDM's own water supply systems, 6%; and public lighting, 1%.
Losses and unaccounted for in Table 2.1 appear to be understated by not less
than 10%. This is due mainly to overestimation of unmetered consumption.
2.1.0     Peak demand in the Bamako electric system, the only sizeable system
in Mali, grew from 7 MW in 1971 to 15.4 MW in 1978. Electricity consumption
increased steadily during the same period at an average 12% per year, although
insufficient capacity has plagued the system except in 1971, 1974 and 1978
when new diesel units were commissioned. The 1981 unsuppressed peak demand
was estimated at 20 MW but the available generating capacity without Selinque
was well below this figure because of breakdowns and poor maintenance. The
nuraber of consumers increased about 7% per year from 10,800 in 1971 to 18,500
in 1978, following approximately Bamako's growth in population.
Ex_Lsting Electric Power Facilities
2.11      In 1979 the total installed generating capacity in Mali was 35 MW
with an annual generation of 135 GWh. EDM's share is 25 MW and 101 GWh.
Captive plants make up the balance. With the exception of the 5 MW Sotuba
hy,lroelectric plant on the Niger river near Bamako and the small--500 kW--
hydroplant at Kayes, all generation was diesel electric.
2.12      Bamako is supplied by the Sotuba hydroplarnt and the 15.5 MW Dar-
Salam diesel electric plant through a primary distribution system at 30 and
15 kV which services only a fraction of the city. Low voltage distribution
is done at 220/380 V, 50 Hz. A 30 kV line connects Koulikouro with the Bamako
electric system. The Dar Salam power plant is in precarious condition and
is in need of total rehabilitation to serve as stancdby now that Selingue is
fully commissioned.  The Bamako  distribution system, likewise, requires
strengthening and rehabilitation of certain facilities. Both problems will be
addressed by the proposed project. Public electric service in other regional
centers originates in small diesel electric plants.
2.13      A 48 MW hydroelectric power plant has been built at Selingue on the
Sankarani river, a tributary of the Niger, to meet the power requirements of
Bamako and southern Mali. Selingue's average annua'L generation is estimated
at 218 GWh delivered at the Balingue substation in ]3amako. Power generation
from Selingue started in August 1981, and the station is now working at about
25% of its energy potential due to lack of demand. Hydroelectric energy from
Selingue, by substituting for diesel-electric generation, will reduce Mali's
gas oil imports, with consequent foreign exchange savings. EDM is purchasing
electric power from the Selingue Authority at the Balingue terminal of a 140
km, 150 kV transmission line from Selingue.  Selingue has been conceived as a
multipurpose project with power, navigation, fisheries, and agricultural
benefits, but if the total cost of the dam is allocated to its power function,
the economic cost per kWh sold would be FM 48 at a discount rate of 10%, which
is the opportunity cost of capital in Mali. This cost compares favorably with



EDM's current running cost (excluding financial charges) of FM99 per kWh for
diesel generation. Up to now EDM has been paying FM 34 per kWh for the energy
delivered by the Selingue Authority. However, the Government has lately
decided that with effect from July 1, 1982 EDM will pay MF 40 per kWh for
Selingue power and thereafter automatically adjust tariffs to cover any
increases in the cost of purchased power beyond the MF 40 price.
Existing Water Supply Facilities
2.14      Of the 21 towns which have adequate facilities, 10 are managed by
EDM, and the remainder are, up to now, managed by Local Governments. Most
of these schemes have been financed by the Government almost entirely from
external grants. Most production facilities are based on treatment of
surface water from the Senegal and Niger rivers and require large supplies of
chemicals and appropriate maintenance, which have not been available lately.
Distribution networks cover only parts of the urban areas and extensions
are usually provided on a piecemeal basis. EDM has some 14,000 registered
private connections of which 9,500 are in Bamako; the number of unregistered
connections appears sizable. While 90% of connections have a meter, no work-
shop and spares are available to repair broken meters. As a result, meters
are not read in the field, and billing is determined on outdated records.
Many standpipes are either inoperative, or turned off because of the large
payments due to EDM by the municipalities. The poor physical condition of
many facilities and lack of attention to providing appropriate spare parts is
due to the low level of qualification and insufficient training of staff, the
lack of a maintenance budget and insufficient qualified staff at headquarters
level to cope with problems arising from water supply operations.
2.15      The Bamako s stem consists of two treatment units, each with a
daily capacity of 750mU, which were constructed in 1974 and 1976 under a
grant from Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED); these units are now utilized
at full capacity during normal periods and cannot meet the entire water
demand. An older plant built in the 50s composed of two 375 m3 units was
shut down in 1975. The latter could be utilized again at least partly with
direct filtration during the dry season when the water has little turbidity
and the water demand reaches its peak. An additional daily capacity of 750 m3
intended to supply Bamako and Kati, (14 km from the capital city) is being
constructed under a credit from Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and
would be completed by 1982. The water supply system also suffers from
insufficient and unreliable pumping units at the raw and treated water stages,
and would need urgent reinforcement, if not dealt with under the KfW credit,
to ensure appropriate distribution of the produced water. The distribution
system is not sufficiently extended to serve all the town areas, in particular
the newly developed and populated areas south of the Niger river. Significant
extensions to the first network date back to the early 60's when Bamako had
only 1/3 of its current population. Several bottlenecks like uncompleted
looping in the transmission mains, and too small booster stations, prevent
proper distribution to too elevated or remote city areas.



-7-
Tariffs
2.16      The average price of electricity in Mali during 1979 was FM 55/kWh
(US311). On March 1, 1980 the tariffs were increased by 30% across the
board; the new tariffs' average price of FM 69 (USJ13.8/kWh) is below the
average for landlocked Sahelian countries (US4l6/kWh in Upper Volta, and
USJ23/kWh. in Chad). 1/ The water tariffs were also increased by 30% on
March 1, 1980. With this increase, the average price for water is now MF 79
per m3 (USd15.8/m3). Sales taxes of MF 2 per kWh and MF 20 per m3 are added
to the respective tariffs. Both electricity and water tariffs were increased
by 11% effective February 1, 1982. Adequacy of both power and water tariffs
is analyzed in Chapter VI (paras. 6.11 through 6.13)1.
Sectors' Planning
2.17      Planning in the power sector, which was st:imulated during the late
60's and early 70's, deteriorated during the last few years. Some planning
action has resumed in this sector prompted by the Bank Group's assistance with
the PPF advance (para. 1.03). Likewise, in the water supply sector, where
planning has been haphazard, a development program i-or Bamako (Plan Directeur)
has been prepared with the help of consultants financed by the PPF advance.
Power Sector Planning
2.18      Broadly speaking, the long term electricity needs of southern and
western Mali could be met by the proposed 200 MW Manantali hydroplant (800 GWh
per year) on the Bafing river, a tributary of the Senegal river. Manantali
would be built by OMVS 2/ for flood control and irrigation in the lower
reaches of the Senegal river. Power production is a secondary benefit
incidental to its main purposes. Power from Manantali could not be available
before 1989/90 and increasing amounts of thermal generation will be needed to
meet the peak demand in the dry season from 1987 onwards, (See Annex 2.1), it
is planned to extend by 7 MW the Sotuba hydroelectric plant to better use the
Niger river flow regulated upstream by the Selingue dam. In the event
Manantali is not built, a power project can be developed on the Niger rapids
at Kenie, about 35 km downstream of Bamako. Preliminary assessments indicate
that two power plants could be installed at Kenie with total annual generation
of about 800 GWh. This power generation program will be complemented by
building a transmission link between Bamako and Segou, which can be extended
in the longer term to form a loop tying the main urban centers of southern
Mali. These actions on medium/long term power system development planning
will be reviewed, coordinated and finalized by a study to be financed in the
proposed project (para. 3.21 (v)).
2.19      Development programs for distribution systems (Master Plans) have
been completed recently for Bamako and four other urban centers. These
studies were financed with the PPF advance.
1/   However, Mali is the only landlocked Sahelian country which benefits
from a relatively substantial amount of hydrogeneration.
2/   "Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal", an interna-
tional entity created by Mali, Senegal, and Mauritania.



- 8 -
2.20      There are a number of urban centers in Mali to which it is not
feasible to extend a central electric system because of long distances and
light loads. For these centers, located particularly in central and northern
Mali, power production will continue to be thermal. The possibility of using
agricultural residues is being explored by EDM, and a PPF-financed study
has demonstrated the feasibility of biomass plants if these residues can be
gathered economically.
Water Supply Sector Planning
2.21     Investments in the water supply sector over the past five years
amount to about US$12 million and are expected to bring service to an addi-
tional 100,000 people. They include: (i) installation of a public water
system in Kita, and the extension of the Bamako treatment plant, both financed
by KfW; (ii) extension of the Gao water supply system financed by FAC; (iii)
minor reinforcements of four secondary centers' systems with a CEAO grant;
(iv) extension of public water systems in small urban centers with Canadian
assistance; and (v) reinforcement of distribution networks in Bamako and Gao
under the IDA financed urban project (Credit 943). Studies for strengthening
existing water supplies in the capital city and four other centers are also
underway. A Water Master Plan for Bamako carried out by French consultants
(SAFEGE) under the PPF aims at the supply of all the city population with
water by 1986 either by private connection for about 30%, or by standpipes for
the remainder. Although these criteria look acceptable, the objectives are
slightly ambitious because the investments required to catch up with the
backlog are estimated to amount to US$55 million in 1980 costs. Other alter-
native investment plans have been drawn up on the basis of slower execution
targets and of shifting the full coverage objective to 1990; this would result
in an initial investment of about US$19 million. The same consultants have
also been commissioned to study the strengthening of four large centers under
ADB financing. The Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy (DHE) has also
subcontracted studies, funded under a PPF advance, to review the use of
alternative sanitation technologies in Bamako. Reinforcement of water supply
alone without commensurate improvement of the precarious sewage disposal
conditions would likely result in further deterioration of health and living
standards. It is imperative that appropriate, affordable individual and
semi-collective sewage disposal systems be identified now and implemented
jointly with the large water supply investments scheduled for the second phase
of the proposed program (para. 4.02).
2.22      In mid 1980 DHE submitted to the Ministry of Plan proposals for
water supply and sanitation over the next four year plan period (1981-1985).
These proposals call for extension of water schemes in about 12 towns, six of
them to be reinforced and the remainder to be provided with simple supply
systems. Resulting cost estimates amount to FM 8.6 billion (US$17 million);
they exclude strengthening of schemes mentioned in para. 2.21 still under
study, which would increase these estimates by about 250%. Even with the
assistance of multi- and bilateral aid agencies which have already expressed
interest, it is unlikely that these targets can be met since all investments
have been obtained and will likely continue to come from external financing,
with minimal contribution from State or cash generation funds.



-9-
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Background
3.01      EDM was established in 1961 as a "mixed economy" company, i.e.,
a joint Government/private owned company, with the Malian Government presently
holding the majority of the share capital of 55%, and two French public
agencies, CCCE and EDF respectively holding 39% and 6% of the shares. The
Company is administered by a Board of eight members consisting of the Minister
of "Tutelle" as chairman, three other Malians including the Director of the
"Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie" of the Ministry of Industrial
Development, one staff representative, and three French shareholder nominees.
For the last few years, the Board has met irregularly and thus has played onlv
a liLmited role in the management of EDM.
Concession System
3.02      EDM operates under the "Concession System" still often used in
French-speaking countries which gives the company the right, for a fixed
tenn, to operate, manage and develop the power/water undertaking. This
includes the right for the company to levy agreed tariffs and to recover its
investment by the end of the concession period. The company does not own
all of the assets it operates. Several major categories of assets, usually
hydro-power installations, main water works, and most of the distribution
networks are regarded as public property ("public domain"), and must be
returned in good working order by the company to the Government when the
concession agreement expires, even if part or all of their cost has been
financed by the Company. A specific system of depreciation and renewals
appropriations is designed to allow the company to satisfy its various
financial obligations (para. 6.02). The advantage claimed for the conces-
sion system is that it permits private capital venture into the field of
public monopoly whilst ensuring a measure of state control and final owner-
ship. However, since the majority of the assets are directly owned by the
Government, the development of the sector can easily be planned beyond the
control of the utility as it is currently happening in Mali. In addition
the complexity of the concession system makes its understanding and correct
application difficult, and results in confusion for management.
3.03      EDM-s concession agreement was signed in 1961 for a 30 year period,
which gives EDM the "concession for production and distribution of power and
water over the territory of the Republic of Mali". A Government decree
specifying EDM-s organization and operations ("Cahier des Charges") was
issued in 1962 which satisfactorily defines EDM-s legal position toward its
customers and public authorities. These arrangements provide for the parti-
cipation of CCCE and EDF in EDM's management, while the Malian Government
retains control over policy issues through the majority it holds of the
Board. In light of the difficulties pointed out in para. 3.02, the proposed
project includes financing of a study to assess the advantages and disadvan-
tages of continuing with the concession system for EDM.



- 10 -
Management, Organization and Operations
3.04      EDM's General Manager is appointed by Presidential decree.  A new
General Manager was appointed recently. He is a young and promising official,
but inexperienced in the field of public utilities. Considering the variety
and magnitude of the problems that EDM encounters in almost all aspects of its
organization and operations, the new General Manager will need to be supported
for some years by an experienced expatriate project manager (para. 3.20).
3.05      EDM's current organization chart gives a pivotal role to the Gen-
eral Manager, under whose direct authority are placed a cluster of functional
and operational units. EDM has no overall technical direction, which means
several services report directly to the General Manager including: the dis-
tribution service for both power and water, two recently organized production
services (diesel generation and water production outside of Bamako, power
generation and distribution in Bamako), a planning service, and a purchasing
service. Commercial activities are also not grouped, and responsibilities for
customer activities are spread under different department heads. No clear-cut
management or organizational distinction is made between water and power
activities. This dispersion of responsibilities places a heavy burden on the
General Manager, and does not foster coordination between services, delegation
of authority, or adequate evaluation of sector-specific problems. Because of
his very recent appointment, the new General Manager has not yet implemented
any reorganization of the company. However during the post appraisal mission
the general framework of EDM's future organization was agreed (Annex 3.1). In
addition to the already agreed creation of a water supply service department,
the new organization chart translates the consolidation of all generation and
transmission activities in and outside Bamako in a single department, and the
reorganization of the Planning and Engineering Departments which will report
to the Deputy General Manager.
3.06      EDM's general organizational pattern can also be found at the
operational units' level, where the chief of each unit retains all authority.
Indeed, for most of the outstations, communication problems and low level of
staff expertise do not allow for any other scheme to be developed. However,
the organization of the Bamako unit, which accounts for more than 80% of
EDM's total operational activities, will be considered as a specific problem
and will be addressed by the technical assistance team in parallel with the
general reorganization of the utility. In addition, the proposed project
includes financing new buildings to better house the Bamako unit and ease
current communications and other day-to-day problems.
3.07      These organizational deficiencies have been discussed with EDM's
management who agreed that improvements are required. EDM's management has
recognized that part of the problem was due to shortages of skilled, exper-
ienced, and reliable management and staff. To overcome the organization
deficiencies, as a first step, EDM has commissioned an ongoing organization,
manpower and training study by EDF, due for completion by June 30, 1982
(para. 3.15). The proposed project includes a technical assistance component
that implements the recommendations of EDF's study (preliminary report) after
review by S'ZI's management, the VRalian authorities and the Association.



- 11 -
3.D8      Apart from the organizational and staffing problems, EDM's opera-
tiDns are hampered by poor and difficult communicatiLons. Moreover, the
company's past financial constraints (para. 6.04) resulted in totally inade-
quate maintenance and a scarcity of spare parts and tools. Consequently
service quality deteriorated sharply (para. 2.06) and staff morale is low.
Clearly EDM needs assistance to raise standards to acceptable levels. In
the short term, this would comprise technical assistance, rehabilitation
support, and consultancy (para. 4.03). To meet longer term requirements, the
project would support training for all staff levels through: (i) on-the-job
training of Malian counterparts by the technical assistance expatriates; (ii)
training in Europe of Malian staff; and (iii) physical expansion of EDM's
training center, and expatriate support to increase the capacity and efficiency
of EDM's present training facilities and program (para. 3.16).
Staffing and Manpower Requirements
3.09      Staff are engaged and dismissed by the company's General Manager.
At end 1980, total staff numbered 806, of which there were 20 engineers and
executives, 145 technicians and 641 skilled and unskilled workers. Two
hundred staff were working at headquarters, 410 at c:he Bamako unit and the
remaining in various outstations. EDM has one employee for every 35 customers
in both power and water, which is comparable ratio for the prevailing standards
in West Africa power and water utilities. 1/ Staff increased slowly by only
0.5% per year from 1970 to 1976, but increased by 18% in 1977 and 5% in 1978.
Since 1979 a hiring freeze has been imposed by the management to forestall
over-generous staffing, as a result of which the total staff has declined by
59 persons since then.
3.10      In general, new staff are hired under the existing Personnel Statute
(Convention du Personnel) dating back to 1959 which comprehensively covers
salaries and conditions of employment, which were in line with practices often
found in other utilities in French speaking countries but now needs major
revision. Some senior staff also retain their civil servant status by being
simply "seconded" by their Government administration. A new personnel statute
has recently been negotiated between EDM's management and its staff but
requires the Ministry of Tutelle's review and approval before implementation.
Due to ministerial changes and the need to coordinate a coherent personnel
policy for all nationalized enterprises, approval is still awaited by EDM.
Training
3.11      EDM has only a few well-trained and competent power engineers.  Many
of the younger power engineers or administrative managers have been trained
locally, mostly at ENI (Ecole Nationale d'Ingenieur) or ENA (Ecole Nationale
d'Administration), whilst others have received basic engineering training in
Eastern Europe. However, most require additional training before they can
be really efficient in their present positions. There are a few well-trained
1/   Benin 1 to 30 (power and water, 1979), Senegal 1 to 47 (power, 1977).



- 12 -
and experienced technicians working mainly in the power sector. The older
technicians who learned on the job lack theoretical knowledge, while newly
appointed technicians, mostly graduates from the local ECICA (Ecole Centrale
pour l'Industrie, le Commerce et l'Administration), lack practical experience.
At the blue collar level, skill is often minimal and the management estimates
that almost half the total staff are illiterate. The proposed project will
address the illiteracy problem through the training component.
3.12      There are no specific training facilities in Mali for water plant
and water network management and maintenance. In addition, qualified plumbers
are very few and very difficult to hire under prevailing labor market condi-
tions. Adequate staffing of its water operations constitutes a crucial
problem for EDM-s management. Consequently, the training component of the
proDosed Droiect would specifically address the water sector needs.
3.13      Training has always been a crucial problem for EDM because of the
generally low qualification of its staff and the complete lack in Mali of
some categories of specialists required for power and water operations
(paras. 3.11 and 3.12). In 1965 EDM. with EDF's assistance, opened a training
center in Bamako to address these needs. The first programs were mainly aimed
at training of diesel and power network specialists through long-duration
seminars (18 months). When the need for such specialists was felt to have
decreased, around 1970, training was focussed on literacy programs and shorter
professional seminars extended to accounting and administration staff.
However, by the mid-seventies the center's activities had both diminished and
deteriorated following the lack of equipment, and a lack of commitment by
EDM's management.
3.14      In 1979 EDM reactivated the training activities with the assist-
ance of two experts seconded from EDF. The center was rehabilitated and
incentives instituted to attract junior staff interest in training; the
training service was also placed under the General Manager's direct respon-
sibility.   Training activities have been reoriented toward the neglected
technical fields, and a special program has been set up to broaden the prac-
tical experience of younR technicians hired from the local ECICA. During that
year, the center's activities were substantial and included 353 man-weeks of
training, and 225 man-weeks of upgrading. In addition, consistent with a
training policy followed for years by EDM, nine engineers and technicians were
sent for training to power utilities abroad for one- to three-month training
periods as part of the Company's upgrading program.  However, the current
training capacity of EDM falls short of the substantial needs. Water sector
activities are almost ignored, and the integration of training programs to
operations should be improved. Moreover, training equipment shortages hamper
effective training.
3.15      In order to assist EDM to formulate a personnel and training
program, the ongoing EDF organization, manpower and training study (para.
3.07) includes: (i) assessment of EDM's organization; (ii) assessment of
manpower requirements and training needs; (iii) design of adequate training
programs; and (iv) plans for extension of EDM's existing training center to
provide for the needs of both the power and water sectors. A preliminary



- 13 -
report was available and reviewed during the appraisal mission, and was found
satisfactory for power sector activities. In addition, a Bank appointed
water sector training specialist complemented EDF's work and prepared detailed
andb costed manpower and training requirements through 1985. While his
proposals need to be reduced to account for the small involvement of this
project in water supply, the consultant's recommendations have been discussed
in the field, and will be incorporated in EDF's global proposals to be imple-
mented under the project.
3.16      Following joint discussions with Malians and CCCE/FAC, the IDA
appraisal mission concluded that training activities should be more closely
linked to operations.  Therefore, a large part of training would be accom-
pl:ished on the job under the supervision of the expatriate technical assistants.
Nevertheless, three full-time training specialists who will be part of the
technical assistance team will be financed under the project to assist the
Malian chief training officer and to implement EDF's manpower and training
study recommendations. Financing to extend and to aLdequately equip the
training center is also included in the proposed prcject.
Technical Assistance
3.17      In the mid-60s an agreement was negotiatedl between EDM's management
and FAC to provide financing for technical assistance. This assistance
coasisted of the provision of middle management staff, mainly seconded from
EDF, who have been employed in production, distribution, accounting and
training. For the past several years, lack of commitment both by EDM's
management and by their French counterparts has caused the quality and bene-
fits of this assistance to deteriorate. At appraisal, only three positions
out of five available were filled.
3.18      Clearly this technical assistance, which was introduced in the mid-
60s, no longer suits EDM's needs and as a result has not been able to prevent
the erosion of EDM's operations. EDM's management, a CCCE/FAC/ EDF mission,
and the appraisal mission jointly reviewed EDM's problems and concluded they
were due to a combination of factors: (i) the inadequate caliber of the
assistance provided; (ii) the insufficient number of expatriate technicians
only in advisory positions; (iii) the lack of coord:Lnation between assistants;
(iv) EDM management's lack of commitment; and (v) EDM's financial difficulties.
The present trend in declining operating standards must be reversed by rein-
forcing both the level and scope of technical assistance, and by supplementing
this assistance with adequate consultancies. The appraisal mission noted that
even the best among the Malian personnel become rapidly discouraged by the
volume and magnitude of the problems encountered in their work, and as a
result, the normal on-the-job training is not available. The only way to
reverse these trends is to help the company operate satisfactorily again.
3.19      However, since introducing a large team of relatively well-paid
expatriates could result in a general "giving up" by local staff who could
get the feeling of a "takeover" by foreigners, a preliminary agreement was
reached in Bamako between the Government, EDM's management, and the IDA and
CCCE/FAC/EDF missions on a limited but highly experienced team of 13 managers/
technicians. The Government and EDM, with IDA's support, expressed the desire



- 14 -
that the technical assistance be provided by one entity and that could be EDF.
EDF were preferred because of : (i) their experience and well established
competence in technical assistance; (ii) their knowledge of local problems;
and (iii) the significant share of the related cost which will be borne by
CCCE and FAC. Farming out of the services to EDF would of course be subject
to the conclusion of a satisfactory agreement between them and EDM on indi-
vidual terms of reference for the expatriates, general conditions concerning
EDF's performance, and prices. Further discussions concluded that expatriates
would be integrated into the organization and given direct operational respon-
sibilities, and each of them would be assigned one or several Malian counter-
parts to train, such training role to be included in their terms of reference
(see Annex 3.2 and Project File). Close monitoring of this program would be
carried out jointly by EDM's management and EDF. The technical assistance
team would also be supported by a number of studies and programs to be financed
by the project (para. 3.21).
3.20      Specifically the technical assistance team to be financed under the
project would consist of:
-    1 qualified chief accountant to head the Financial and Accounting
service;
-    1 customer specialist to head the customer division;
-    I data processing specialist;
-    1 power generation engineer specialized in diesel generation;
-    I diesel technician;
-    1 water supply engineer to become the deputy chief of the water
supply department;
-    1 water supply technician;
-    2 construction engineers to staff the Engineering Department;
-    3 technical teachers (1 diesel specialist, 1 water supply specialist
and 1 power supply specialist) one of them to become the deputy
chief of the training department;
-    1 experienced project manager to be in charge of the coordination of
the project including supervising its implementation and reporting
periodically to cofinanciers. This "coordinator" would report
directly to the General Manager, and would be recruited independently
of the team provided by EDF. He would also serve as the General
Manager's adviser. Terms of reference of this co-ordinator were
agreed with the Government and EDM during negotiations.
Housing for expatriates is difficult to obtain in Bamako and EDM has only three
houses appropriate for members of the technical assistance team. In order to
provide residential accomodations for the balance of the team 10 prefabricated
houses would be financed under the project.



- 15 -
3.21      Studies and actions to be carried out by specialized firms within
short term assignments (para. 4.03), and financed under the technical
assistance package would include:
(i)  inventory of service connections to update EDM's customers files and
accounts, review of EDM's billing system, and organization of a
Commercial Department;
(ii) assistance to review and strengthen EDM's accounting procedures;
(iii) assistance in the optimal operation of the Bamako system, which
involves two hydro-plants and a diesel plant;
(iv)  assistance in organizing a preventive maintenance system for both
power and water;
(v) assistance in building up a short-medium t:erm planning capability
for the power and water sectors and; financing of a study on
medium/long term system planning to:
-    determine the optimum development of the Bamako power system
into an interconnected grid in southern Mali;
-    assess medium-term rural electrification needs and make
proposals for a realistic rural elect:rification plan;
(vi) power and water tariff studies (para. 6.12); and
(vii)  studies of: (i) the advantages and disadvantages of continuing the
concession system for EDM (para. 3.03); (ii) the advisability of
splitting the water and power activities and managing them separately
(para. 2.07); and (iii) the merits of unit:ing the power activities
of Selingue authority with a strengthened EDM into a single entity
with investment planning and financing responsibilities (para. 2.07).
Terms of reference for the technical assistance package including these
studies and actions are satisfactory to the Association and are detailed in
th,s rehabilitation plan prepared by EDF (Annex 3.2 and Project File). Every
effort will be made to reduce the number of consulting firms involved in the
provision of the services listed above, in order to minimize the coordination
burden on EDM. During negotiations, EDM and the Government have agreed to the
technical assistance package (described above in paras. 3.19 to 3.21).
Me_ering, Billing and Collection
3.22      EDM's Billing Department shows 28,000 power customers and 14,000
water customers, of which 18,500 for power and 9,500 for water are in Bamako.
The accuracy of these figures has been questioned by the auditors (para. 3.25)
since figures for recorded connections given by technical services are signi-
ficantly higher. In addition, EDM's management assumes that there is a
large number of non-registered customers, particularly for water. A recent
(1979) CCCE-financed program using an expatriate expert supported by EDM



- 16 -
staff was aimed at updating the company's customer files for Bamako, but
failed due to lack of sufficient personnel and material means. Experience in
Cameroon and Gabon suggest that this type of task is better conducted by a
specialist consulting firm without reliance on the utility's own staff.
Financing of block-mapping and updating of customers' files for the Bamako
area by a specialized firm is included in the project (para. 3.21).
3.23      Meters are read monthly.  Whilst most of the power meters are in
working condition, approximately two-thirds of the water meters are inopera-
tive and corresponding customers are charged minimum amounts. Power and
water billing for Bamako and outstations is computerized and performed
by EDM. EDM recently replaced its old computer, following numerous failures
which contributed heavily to the disruption of the company's commercial
activity. The new replacement has been operational since June 1980. For
Bamako, bill collection is done at headquarters and at four new collection
offices, the opening of which was part of a plan by EDM to ease specific
Bamako collection difficulties. Bill collection at the outstations is done
by local units. As a result of EDMi's current organizational problems and the
present general economic difficulties in Mali, collection has been poor auring
the last few years. The proposed project addresses the organizational proDlems
through the provision of technical assistance (paras. 3.20 and 3.21).
Accounting and Information System
3.24      EDM's accounting system is based on accrual accounting principles
using the Malian Chart of Accounts which has been derived from the 1957
French Chart. According to the concession system, Government and customer
financed assets in the "public domain" are recorded separately in an annex
to EDM's balance sheet but corresponding renewals provisions are charged to
the company operating account (para. 6.02). EDM has a simplified cost-
accounting system and shows separately operating accounts for power and water.
Accounting work is partially computerized on EDM's own computer.
3.25      A PPF-financed audit of EDM's 1977 accounts revealed serious defi-
ciencies and the auditors were unable to form an opinion on the accounts.
Major problem areas were in the recording of fixed assets, receivables and
current liabilities. Problems with recording of fixed assets primarily relate
to Government failing to formally transfer to EDM new water assets in the
"public domain" (para. 6.03); poor recording of suppliers' accounts, customers'
accounts as well as Bank and Postal accounts. EDM's method of apportionin8
indirect cost between the power and the water sectors is also somewhat arbi-
trary and does not truly reflect the incidence of costs of each sector; this
method requires improvement. In general, current accounting procedures are
weak and staff need upgrading. Accounting deficiencies are partially respon-
sible for EDM's present serious financial problems.
3.26      Improvement of EDM-s accounting system implies in the short term
that new and safe procedures be defined, that specific actions be taken to
deal with accumulated past delays and errors and that in the long term,
adequate on-the-job training and support is provided to the accounting staff.
As part of the general technical assistance the proposed project would finance
assistance by a qualified accounting firm to:



(i) review existing accounting and billing procedures and computer
programs;
(ii) define new procedures;
(iii) deal with past customer receivables and past supplier payables;
(iv) reconcile current assets and liabilities;
(v) prepare assets register and review depreciation policy;
(vi) improve cost accounting.
In addition, the project would also finance an experienced professional
accountant to head EDM's accounting service for four years and train its
Malian counterpart. In order to allow separated financial management of the
power and the water sectors, during negotiations, ED)M's agreement was obtained
that separate accounts for power and water operations would be established and
a complete cost accounting system will be implement(ed by January 1, 1984.
3.27      Budgeting.  EDM does not have budgetary systems for operations or
investments. Operational expenditures payments have been made in recent years
on a routine regular basis. However, with the present declining cash posi-
tion, payments are now effected on an intermittent basis as and when funds are
available. Lack of financial planning has contributed to the present finan-
cial deterioration of EDM. The technical assistance accountant's terms of
reference will include setting up of a budgeting procedure coupled with a
monitoring system to control operating and capital expenditures throughout the
yeiar. Establishment of a technical planning capacity (para. 3.21 (v)) will
facilitate the preparation of future investment plans and financing plans.
3.28      Audits.  Control of EDM's accounts is done by two "Commissaires aux
Comptes", one of whom is the Financial Controller of the Republic of Mali, and
the other is privately appointed by the Company. However this control does
not address all aspects of the accounts and, as shown by the external audit
re!cently performed (para. 3.25), is inadequate for IDA requirements. Conse-
quiently, audits satisfactory to IDA will be required yearly. To help EDM
overcome its current difficulties, financing for such audits has been provided
under the project for two years. In view of the current poor state of EDM's
accounts and the time required to significantly improve them, it is proposed
that EDM not be required to submit formal audited accounts for FY 1982. IDA
would be satisfied for that year with (a) a brief joint report on EDM's yearly
accounts by EDM and the accounting consulting firm hired under the project,
and (b) an external audit of the project related expenditure (para. 3.26).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that in addition to the above,
st:arting with accounts for FY83, EDM will have its annual accounts audited by
an independent auditor under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and that
the reports would be made available to IDA within four months of the end of
each fiscal year.
3.29      Insurance.  Current insurance contracts cover, in theory at least,
third party liabilities and risk to property and inventory. However, EDM
has been warned by its European insurers that values covered by current
c--tzacts may significantly differ from real values and that an updating of



- 18 -
all properties insured is necessary. The poor state of the company's assets
register and accounts in general constitutes a serious handicap to perform
such updating. During negotiations agreement was reached that EDM will submit
to IDA by March 31, 1984 (i.e., 3 months after revaluation of assets) a
proposal to adjust its insurance contracts, for IDA approval.
IV. THE PROJECT
The Program and the Project
4.01      The program to rehabilitate EDM (Annex 3.2) and to extend and improve
its service coverage has been conceived in two phases, of which the first is
the proposed project for IDA financing. This first phase would be developed
between 1983 and 1987 and would essentially seek to rehabilitate EDM's opera-
tions and management, remove critical bottlenecks, support urgently needed
extensions and, prepare the second phase to be executed during the 1984-87
period. During appraisal the Government, EDM, IDA and the other lenders
agreed that the proposed IDA project would consist of the following components:
(a) Technical assistance component
-    Secondment of experts to strengthen EDM's management (para. 3.20)
-    Studies and actions to be carried out by specialized firms
within short-term assignments (para. 3.21)
-    Physical facilities to house EDM's Bamako Unit (para. 3.06) and
data processing equipment
-    Extension of EDM's training center (para. 3.08)
-    Construction of 10 pre-fabricated houses to accomodate the
technical assistance experts
(b) Power component
-    Rehabilitation of the Dar Salam diesel electric power plant in
Bamako during 1984 to 1987
-    Installation of powerline carrier communication from Selingue's
substation at Balingue to Sotuba and Dar Salam power plants
-    Reinforcement and extension of Bamako's distribution system
-    Construction of a biomass power plant at Mopti/Sevare
(c) Water supply component
-    Resolution of main bottlenecks in distribution and production
facilities in Bamako



- 19 -
(d) General plant component
-    Supply of vehicles, tools and instrumLents for EDM's operations
throughout Mali
(e) Technical studies component
-    Pre-construction design for extension of the Sotuba hydro-
electric power plant
-    Pre-construction design for the Bamako-Segou transmission link
-    Pre-construction design for extension of water supply faci-
lities in Bamako
(f) Other
-    Refinancing of PPF
Program Objectives
4.02      The rehabilitation and extension program, as conceived, aims at:
(i) institution building by alleviating EDM's managerial and operational
constraints; (ii) ensuring improvement and increased water and power supply
to Bamako's population; (iii) extending the service area to be supplied
by hydroelectric energy from Selingue to replace costly diesel electric
generation; (iv) supplying electric power for rural loads in the Segou area;
and (v) using agricultural residues for electric power production in the
Mopti/Sevare area with consequent savings of imported gas oil. The bene-
ficiaries of the program would be: (i) for the power and water component in
Bamako, the city's inhabitants, particularly people with medium and low
incomes; (ii) for the power transmission study component, Segou/Markala and
Fana/Dioila inhabitants and industrial users, as weLl as rural loads within
the "Office du Niger" 1/ area of operation; and (iii) for the biomass power
scheme component, Mopti/Sevare's inhabitants and farmers.
Project Composition
Technical Assistance Component
4.03      The technical assistance component is designed to rehabilitate EDM,
to strengthen EDM's management, and to supply on-the-job training to its
personnel. The extent of the technical assistance (52.5 man-years of experts'
services) its composition, and its duration (four years, except for the
project coordinator 4.5 years), have been discussed with CCCE, FAC, and
1/   The "Office du Niger" is a governmental authority responsible for
agricultural production in 60,000 ha. of irrigated land downstream
of the Markala barrage on the Niger river.



- 20 -
agreed upon with the Malian authorities (paras. 3.17-3.21). In essence, the
technical assistance will consist of a team of experts to advise EDM's manage-
ment and to help manage the water and power utility. The experts will be
seconded mainly from EDF (para. 3.04). To complement the work of this tech-
nical assistance team, several specific tasks and studies will be carried out
by specialized firms as explained in para. 3.21. The technical assistance
package will include necessary offices and accommodations for the experts, two
buildings to properly house data processing equipment and Bamako's operational
unit, and 10 housing units to lodge the technical experts. EDF will assume
overall responsibility for the success of the technical assistance team.
Power Component
4.04      The Dar Salam diesel electric power plant in Bamako is in precarious
condition; most of the units are out of commission for various defects and the
foundation blocks of two units will have to be recast. The project provides
for the complete overhaul of units that can be repaired, spare parts, recasting
of foundation, and repair of building. In addition, funds are provided to
install a unified control board, since at present control of units is dispersed
at various locations in the power house which makes operation difficult. The
decision to install this control board will be based on an engineering study
to be commissioned by CCCE which is financing 90% of the Dar Salam rehabilita-
tion.
4.05      The "Autorite de Selingue" has installed a power line carrier commu-
nication system between the hydro plant at Selingue and the Balingue substa-
tion at the Bamako end of the 150 kV transmission line. Nevertheless there is
only precarious radio communication between Balingue and the power plants at
Bamako, Sotuba and Dar Salam. In order to control operation of the system
from Balingue it is necessary to extend the power line carrier communication
system to these two power plants using the existing 30 kV subtransmission
links. The project will cover the financing needed for this extension.
4.06      In February 1980 EDF completed a PPF-financed study for medium-term
development of Bamako's power distribution system. The study's main objectives
were: (a) to determine the configuration of the 30 and 15 kV distribution
networks up to 1990; (b) to locate bottlenecks and propose solutions; and
(c) to extend electric supply to new areas of the city. In terms of primary
distribution, and as a result of the study, the project consists of the
addition of: (i) a 30 kV underground cable link between Badalabougou substa-
tion south of the Niger river and the Dar-Salam diesel electric power plant to
reinforce the existing link which has suffered several defects; (ii) two new
15 kV feeders out of the new Balingue substation, to reinforce the modifica-
tions being done with CCCE-financing in the primary distribution of the city
by rerouting certain feeders to the Balingue substation; and (iii) a 30 kV
overhead link between the Sotuba hydroplant and Balingue. The project will
also extend the distribution system to ten new sections of the city 1/ with
about 5,000 potential customers.
1/   Sogoniko, Korofina, Dielebougou, Boulkassoumbougou, Mali, Torokoro-
bougou, Djikoroni, Banankabougou, Faladie, and Hippodrome Nord.



- 21 -
4.07     EDF has prepared the conceptual design for the biomass power scheme.
This scheme consists of the construction of a thermal power plant at Mopti/
Sevare to use rice husks as fuel. The 2 MW power plant will have three
dual-fuel engines burning a mixture of low-heat values gas (1000 kcal per m3)
and 10-20% gas oil. The low-heat value gas is obtained by controlled combus-
tion of rice husks in gas producers (one gas producer per generating set).
The power plant will be located adjacent to the existing 13,000 tons per year
rice mill at Sevare which will be expanded in 1983 to 45,000 tons. Roughly
25% of the rice paddy ends up as rice husks, and approximately one kWh is
prc,duced per kg of rice husk burned in a power plant of the type described
above. During the week preceding negotiations, we learned that the Cameroon
biomass project, the prototype for the proposed Mali project, is having tech-
nical problems which relate to the quality of rice husks being used in the
process. Electricite de France (EDF), consultant for the Cameroon project
and the Mali project, confirmed that a study to determine the exact nature of
the problem will be completed by April 1982. Following this study a decision
will be made by Mali and OPEC Fund (who is financing this plant) on whether to
proceed with the Mali project. The prequalification. process for construction
of the Mali biomass plant, which will be completed in January 1982, has
generated considerable response with a wide range of variations proposed for
the process, thereby increasing the likelihood that the problems can be over-
comne and the project started. In view of the high probability that the
problems will be solved, and at the request of the Malians and the OPEC Fund,
with whom this matter was discussed during negotiations, IDA has agreed to
retain this component in the project pending the outcome of the EDF study.
Water Supply Component
4.08      The small water supply component of the proposed project is intended
to resolve the most crucial material problems encountered in the operations of
the Bamako water system, pending a larger participation in the second phase.
It would consist by order of priority of: (i) reinforcing pumping stations
supplying treated water to the main network and, if need be, adding additional
raw-water pumping facilities for the new treatment plant (para. 2.15); (ii)
converting the old treatment plant into a pilot filtration unit to investigate
the feasibility of continuous utilization of the Niger River after direct
filtration only; (iii) supplying water meters and meter repair facilities;
(iv) supplying and laying about 6 km of trunk and secondary mains for the
improvement of distribution flows to peripheral areas; and (v) providing spare
parts and equipment to rehabilitate existing production facilities of EDM's
secondary center systems in the course of a water supply training program.
General Plant Component
4.09      The general plant component consists of the provision of 22 vehicles
for various purposes, a mobile maintenance shop, tools and instruments to
re-equip EDM's maintenance shops and power plants, and office equipment.
This general plant equipment will help assure the success of the technical
assistance team by providing material means which EDM now lacks.



- 22 -
Studies Component
4.10      As indicated in para. 2.18, EDM plans to extend the Sotuba hydro-
electric plant to supply additional power demand in Bamako between the commis-
sioning of Selingue and Manantali. The studies included in the project will
cover the pre-construction design of this extension and the preparation of a
contractor-type costs estimate. The extension consists of enlarging the power
house to accommodate two 3.5 MW turbine generator units, and modifications to
the diversion works on the Niger river.  With the planned extension, Sotuba's
capacity will be increased from 5 MW to 12 MW, and its generating capability
from 38 GWh to 91 GWh per year.
4.11      The feasibility of a transmission link between Bamako and Segou
was investigated by EDF in 1972 and re-examined recently by a PPF-financed
study. This study demonstrates that the transmission link is feasible. The
transmission link would consist of a 235 km 150 kV line beginning at the
Balingue substation in Bamako. A 150/15 kV substation is planned at Segou,
as well as a 150/30 kV substation at Fana to supply Fana, Dioila, and two
cotton ginning mills. The cost of engineering services to design the trans-
mission link and to prepare tender documents is included in the project.
4.12      The preparation of detailed design for a first stage extension and
reinforcement of the Bamako water supply production and distribution would be
included under the proposed project. This follow-up of the completed Master
Plan financed under the PPF would enable DHE and EDM to obtain precise figures
on the amount of distribution extension and cost estimates.
Project Management
4.13      A project coordinator who will be an experienced manager with
engineering background, recruited internationally on terms of reference
already agreed with the Association, will be responsible for supervision of
overall implementation (of both power and water components) and liaison with
the IDA and the other donors. The project coordinator will report directly to
the General Manager. His recruitment is underway and he is expected to assume
his responsibilities by the time of effectiveness of the proposed project.
EDM's construction supervision capability would be reinforced by the presence
of two expatriate engineers also provided within the technical assistance team
of experts, who will be assigned to the Engineering Department. In addition
EDM agreed to use consulting engineering firms to supervise the construction
works financed under the project, since these works require engineering
design, construction supervision, and inspection which exceed largely the
normal capability of EDM's staff even with the assistance of these two
experts. These construction works are:
(i) rehabilitation and extension of the Bamako electric distribution
system;
(ii) construction of a biomass power plant in Mopti/Sevare;



- 23 -
(iii) urgent works on the Bamako water supply system;
(iv) construction of new building to house the Bamako unit;
(v) construction of new building for data processing activities;
(vi) extension of a communication system between Balingue and Sotuba
and Dar Salam power plants;
(vii) extension of EDM's training center; and
(viii) construction of 10 houses to lodge expatriate technical assistance
staff.
Project Costs
4.14      The project comprises the five components described in paras. 4.03
tc 4.12 and the refinancing of the 1979 PPF advance of US$0.97 million; its
estimated cost totals US$43.20 million, of which US$41.25 million is in
foreign exchange. The cost estimates on the basis of the most recent avail-
able data, including contingencies and repayment of the PPF advance, are
summarized in the following table. During negotiations, the Government has
confirmed its intention to exempt the project from duties and taxes, which
have been excluded from these costs.



- 24 -
Table 4.1: COST ESTIMATES
(in US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
A.  Base Line Costs (mid-1981 prices)
1.  Technical Assistance Component
(see Annex 4.1 for details)                         - 1/  13.59       13.59
2.  Power Component:
- Rehabilitation of Dar Salam power plant             -       3.53       3.53
- Power line carrier communication from
Selingue's substation at Balingue with
Sotuba and Dar Salam power Plants                   -       0.24       0.24
- Reinforcement and extension of Bamako
distribution                                      0.56      5.06       5.62
- Mopti/Sevare biomass power plant                  0.53      5.03       5.56
3. Water Supply Component:
- Urgent Works in Bamako's Water Supply
System                                            0.19      1.65       1.84
4.  General Plant Component:
- Vehicles, Tools and Office Equipment                 -      0.82       0.82
5.  Studies Component:
- Pre-construction design of extension to
the Sotuba hydroelectric plant                    0.08      0.76      0.84
-Pre-construction design of the Bamako
to Segou transmission link                        0.08      0.74      0.82
-Pre-construction design for extension
of water supply in Bamako                         0.08      0.74      0.82
6.  Engineering and Construction Supervision            0.19      1.37       1.56
Total Base Line Cost (mid-1981 Prices)              1.71    33.53      35.24
B.  Contingencies:
(a) Physical                                        0.08      1.68      1.76
(b) Prices                                          0.16      5.07      5.23
C.  Repayment of PPF Advance                               -      0.97       0.97
TOTAL COSTS                                       1.95    41.25      43.20
1/   EDM will provide local costs in kind.



- 25 -
4.15      The base line costs in terms of mid-1981 prices, for the power
component have been supplied by EDM's consultants, EDF (in terms of 1980
prices), reviewed and adjusted to mid 1981 by the Association. Base line
costs for the water supply component are firm and cover the crash program
ment:ioned in para. 4.08. For the studies component of the project, base line
costs have been computed at an average cost of US$14,500 per man-month for a
total of 154 man-months of consulting engineering services.  Cost of personnel
for technical assistance (52.5 man-years of experts) has been based on current
EDF prices (see para 4.16 on technical assistance financing). A breakdown of
teclnical assistance costs is shown in Annex 4.1. Th,e engineering services
costs for detailed design and construction supervision have been computed
separately for each construction work component. The estimate includes physi-
cal contingencies for the power component, amounting to 10% on civil works and
equipment. To take into account cost escalation, price contingencies have
beena provided at the rate of 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 19i82, and 7.5% for 1983 to
198.5 and 6% thereafter.
Project Financing
4.16      The financing plan for the proposed project: assumes that the foreign
exchange cost will be financed by foreign loans. CCCE and FAC have agreed to
finance jointly 50% of the combined cost of the technical assistance component,
and the rehabilitation of Dar Salam power plant, thal: is US$10.8 million.
FAC has agreed to provide $4.8 million equivalent on grant basis while CCCE
will provide $6.0 million equivalent at about 5% interest for 15 years includ-
ing five years of grace. The exact terms of the CCCE loan are yet to be
finalized, however, they are not expected to be subslantially different.
This has been confirmed during negotiations. Of the technical assistance
component IDA would finance: (a) the services of an expert to act as project
coordinator, the services of two construction engineers (one civil and one
electric) and the services of a chief accountant to head the Financial and
Accounting Services (paras. 3.20, 4.13 and 4.17); (b) the services of con-
sulting firms to update customers files and accounts, review EDM's billing
system, organize a Customer Department including follow up personnel; carry
out power and water tariff studies; review and strengthen EDM's accounting
services; assist in organizing a preventive maintenance system for both power
and water supply; assist in building up a short, medium and long-range planning
capability; study the merits of uniting power activities in a single entity;
and. study the advantages and disadvantages of the concession system for EDM;
(c) overseas training of EDM's staff; (d) EDF's fee for supervision of the
technical assistance team; and (e) the construction of buildings to house
EDM's Bamako operations and data processing activities, and an extension of
thE Training Center to house water supply related activities. CCCE and FAC
wouLld finance the technical assistance team (except the project coordinator
and three other experts financed by IDA), and housing for technical assistance
experts as listed in Annex 4.1. IDA would finance approximately 10% of the
cost of rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant. OPEC Special Fund has
signed a loan agreement with the Government of Mali for US$6.45 million
at no interest for 20 years including 5 years of grace, to finance the
Mopti/Sevare biomass power scheme. In the financing plan shown in Table 4.2
below it has been assumed that the Association would cover the balance required
to fund the foreign exchange requirements of the project.



- 26 -
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ Million)
IDA    CCCE/FAC    OPEC    EDM    TOTAL
1.  Technical Assistance Component        10.30      6.70          -      -    17.00
2. Power Component:
- Rehabilitation of Dar Salam
power plant                         0.48     4.10          -       -     4.58
- Power Line Carrier Communication  0.29           -         -       -     0.29
- Reinforcement and extension of
Bamako's Distribution               6.60        -          -    0.73    7.33
- Mopti/Sevare Biomass Power
Scheme                                 -        -        6.45   0.72    7.17
3. Water Supply Component:
- Urgent Works in Bamako's
Water Supply System                 2.00         -         -    0.20    2.20
4. General Plant Component:
- Vehicles, Tools and Office
Equipment                           0.98         -         -       -     0.98
5. Studies Component:
- Pre-Construction Design of
Extension to the Sotuba
Hydroelectric Plant                 0.80         -         -    0.10    0.90
- Pre-Construction Design of
the Bamako to Segou
Transmission Link                   0.78        -          -    0.10    0.88
- Pre-Construction Design
for Extension of Water
Supply in Bamako                    0.80        -          -    0.10    0.90
6.  Payment of PPF Advance                 0.97         -         -        -    0.97
TOTALS                             24.00     10.80       6.45   1.95   43.20
Project Execution
4.17      As explained in para. 4.13 a Project Coordinator will be provided
under the technical assistance component to manage the project's implementa-
tion. EDM plans to employ EDF to prepare detailed design and to supervise the
construction of the biomass power plant at Mopti/Sevare and of the extension
to the Bamako electric distribution system. For the water supply component,
EDM plans to continue with the services of the consulting firm SAFEGE, which
prepared the Master Plan for the water supply of Bamako. The supply of equip-
ment and construction of civil works will be done by contractors. Engineering
consultants will be employed by EDM to carry out the different studies con-
templated in the studies component of the project. These arrangements have
been confirmed during negotiations.



- 27 -
Project Implementation Schedule
4.18      The prompt setting up of the technical assistance support to EDM
is necessary before any of the physical or study components of the project are
started. In agreement with CCCE and FAC, and in line with the EDF-designed
rehabilitation plan (Annex 3.2) a detailed scheduling of the technical assis-
tance personnel required has been prepared by EDF. This work is being financed
out of an existing CCCE loan to EDM. On the assumptLion that the project
coordinator (whose recruitment is now underway), could be recruited during the
last quarter of 1982 and that the main group of technical assistants could be
mobilized by early 1983, the power, water supply technical assistance and
study components could be started by late 1983 and finished by June 1987.
Since thermal power for peaking purposes will not be required in the Bamako
area until 1987 the reconditioning of the power plant can be deferred until
1984 and spread over three years.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
4.19        Monitoring criteria and reporting requirements have been discussed
with EDM during negotiations, and assurances were o01tained that EDM will submit
reports to the Association on a quarterly basis. Annex 4.2 gives the proposed
project monitoring guidelines.
Procurement
4.20      All contracts for supply of equipment or civil works construction
will be awarded as a result of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. The selection of consultants for the studies
included in the study component of the project will be done by EDM following
selection procedures agreed upon with the Association. For the technical
assistance component, the project coordinator will be recruited interna-
tionally, and all other staff will be recruited through EDF. Regarding the
rehabilitation of Dar Salam, in view of the nature of this component, being
rehabilitation of existing equipment and purchase of spare parts, ICB would
not be required. Genuine local contractors for civil works will be eligible
for the 7.5% margin of preference as stipulated in the IDA guidelines for bid
evaluation.



- 28 -
Disbursement
4.21      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as shown below:
Table 4.3: DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
(i)  Electrical works, equipment and installation   100% of foreign exchange
(US$6.1 million)
(ii) Water supply works, equipment and installation 100% of foreign exchange
(US$1.8 million)
(iii)  Civil works (buildings for Bamako's operation  100% of foreign exchange
and for data processing and extension to         expenditures or if purchased
training center, (US$1.67 million)               locally, 80% of local expend.
(iv)  Studies (US$2.14 million)                          100% of foreign exchange
(v)  Vehicles, tools, and office equipment             100% of foreign exchange
(US$0.9 million)
(vi)  Services of consultants, experts and special-  100% of foreign exchange
ists, fellowships (US$7.59 million)
(vii)  Rehabilitation of Dar Salam power plant           10% of foreign exchange
(US$0.43 million)
(viii) Unallocated Credit (US$2.4 million)
In addition, the PPF advance of US$0.97 million would be refunded upon effec-
tiveness of the Credit. Withdrawal requests for disbursement would be fully
documented. Under category (vi) the IDA Credit would finance: (a) the
services of the project coordinator and three experts; two construction
engineers and one accountant; (b) the service of consulting firms to carry out
various management and policy studies and to provide assistance as detailed in
para. 4.16 and Annex 4.1; (c) overseas training for EDM's staff; (d) EDF's fee
for supervision of the technical assistance team; and (e) the services of
consulting engineering firms to prepare engineering design, supervise construc-
tion, and perform factory inspection for the works listed in para. 4.13. The
estimated schedule of disbursement is as follows and is considered realistic
for this project:
Environmental Impact
4.22      The biomass power plant units would use low-heat value gas and gas
oil, which are both clean burning fuels. About 20% of the rice husk ends up
as ashes in the gas producer. At the rate of approximately one kg of rice
husk per kWh, generation of B QAh per annum would produce an estimated 1,600
tons per year of ashes. These ashes will be disposed of by filling large
depressions at a short distance from the power plant.



- 29 -
Table 4.4: PROPOSED IDA CREDIT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA FY and Quarter                   Cumulative Disbursement          % of Credit
(US$ Million)
1983
- 1st Quarter                                  1.0                       4.2%
- 2nd Quarter                                  1.2                       5.0%
- 3rd Quarter                                  1.7                       7.1%
- 4th Quarter                                  2.5                      10.4%
1984
- 1st Quarter                                  3.8                      15.8%
- 2nd Quarter                                  5.1                      21.2%
- 3rd Quarter                                  6.4                      26.7%
- 4th Quarter                                  7.8                      32.5%
1985
- 1st Quarter                                  9.2                      38.3%
- 2nd Quarter                                 10.6                      44.2%
- 3rd Quarter                                 12.1                      50.4%
- 4th Quarter                                 13.5                      56.2%
1986
- 1st Quarter                                 14.9                      62.1%
- 2nd Quarter                                 16.3                      67.9%
- 3rd Quarter                                 17.1                      73.7%
- 4th Quarter                                 19.1                      79.6%
1987
- 1st Quarter                                 20.5                      85.4%
- 2nd Quarter                                 21.8                      90.8%
- 3rd Quarter                                 23.0                      95.8%
- 4th Quarter                                 24.0                     100.0%
Closing date would be December 31, 1987.
Project Risks
4.23      The risks involved in the implementation of the physical aspects of
the project are no greater than normal for projects of this type, since all
phases of work will be supervised by competent consultants acceptable to the
Association. Regarding the biomass power plant, a decision will be made by
Ma:Li and OPEC Fund on whether to proceed with this plant, based on the outcome
of EDF's study to determine the exact nature of the problem experienced with
the Cameroon biomass project. However, the prequalification process for the
construction of the plant, now underway, has generated considerable response
with a wide range of variations in process, thereby increasing the likelihood
that the project would be successful.



- 30 -
4.24        Experience in West Africa with technical assistance to power and
water utilities indicates that concrete results can only be achieved through
sustained effort over a number of years. In EDM's case the massive technical
assistance included in the project can go a long way to arrest further deteri-
oration of EDM's operations. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that there
is still risk of failure and that further assistance would be necessary in
subsequent phases of EDM's development.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Power Components
Rehabilitation and Extension of Bamako System
5.01      The Association has reviewed the electric demand forecast for
Bamako prepared by EDF for the period 1980 to 1990. According to this
forecast Bamako's power load is expected to increase from 81 GWh in 1979 to
275 GWh in 1990.  The forecast is shown in the following table:
Table 5.1: BAMAKO DISTRIBUTION
Actual and Projected Electricity Supply and Peak Demand
Actual                Forecast            Growth Rate %
Year:                      1976 1979      1980  1981  1985  1990  1976-79  1981-90
GWh Generated              63     81       88   110   171   275       8%       10%
GWh Sales                 56      71       78    98   152   245
Technical Losses in %   11%    11%        11%   11%   11%   11%
Peak Demand MW             13     15       20    22    34    53
System Capability MW      13      15       20    22    49    90
Annual Load Factor      0.58   0.64    0.51  0.57  0.57  0.57
Power Service in Bamako has been heavily curtailed in the last few years by
breakdowns of the generating units of the Dar Salam plant, due to poor mainte-
nance, and inadequate distribution capacity. A number of power users had to
install and run private diesel electric power sets. This situation was
expected to improve with commissioning of Selingue but in fact demand appears
to have been static in 1980 and 1981. The EDF forecast has therefore been
recast to show a 10% increase per annum from EDM's current forecast for 1982
(see Annex 2.1). The project provides funds for expansion of the distribution
system and rerouting of the main supply feeders in Bamako which will provide
the basis for further growth in demand.



- 31 -
5.02      The rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant when compared with
the only alternative of adding new plant, presents the least cost solution to
meet the generation reserve required.. This plant when reconditioned at a
cost of $3.5 million will defer major expenditures on additional generating
plant to meet the peak demand until about 1992 at realatively little cost in
fuel for the short period it will be required to optsrate on the daily peak for
the two or three months of the dry season each year.
5.03      The rate of return on investment in the distribution system (which
comprises 17.0% of total project cost) has been calculated by equalizing the
present worth of costs (investment and direct operating expenses) and the
present worth of benefits. The benefits have been valued as the incremental
sales over the 1984 base at the average price currently paid by the ultimate
consumers. After 1985 the benefits are kept constant because a new extension
will be necessary to accommodate the increasing load in the distribution
system. In the costs calculations, energy up to 19,35 is taken at the oppor-
tunity cost of energy supplied from Selingue which is zero, since Selingue is
a sunk cost. After 1985 the energy cost is taken at the long term marginal
costs, which is the cost of energy produced by the (extension of Sotuba which
is the next least cost source of power (para. 2.18). Incremental cost of
operating the distribution system extension, financed under the project, is
taken as the variable expenses in distribution adjusted upward to reflect
adequate maintenance. On this basis, the rate of return for the proposed
investment is computed at 21% using current tariff 'Levels as proxy for
benefits. Annex 5.1 shows the tabulation of costs and benefits and the
assumptions used in the calculations.
Mopti/Sevare Biomass Power Scheme
5.04     The only alternative to the proposed biomass power scheme is a
purely diesel electric power plant burning diesel oil. The diesel units
(500 kW) in the existing power plant are completely worn out and would have
to be replaced.  This power plant is located over an embankment adjoining
the dike connecting the island of Mopti with Sevare. Serious settling has
occurred in the structure of the power house and foundation of the sets so
that any expansion of capacity will have to be done elsewhere. Due to the
condition of the diesel units and lack of sufficient generating capacity,
less than one-third of Mopti/Sevare's power requirements are being met by
EDM's power plant. Private power plants supply all industrial loads and the
water supply treatment plant. The demand forecast laas been prepared by EDF
taking into consideration the supply to these loads, once the new power
plant is commissioned. According to this forecast, power load in EDM's
system is expected to increase from 1.4 GWh in 1979 to 8.2 GWh in 1990.
The forecast is shown in the following table:



- 32 -
Table 5.2: MOPTI/SEVARE SYSTEM ELECTRICITY DEMAND FORECAST
Actual          Forecast          Growth Rate %
Year                        1979    1982   1985   1990   1982/85   1985/90
Generation, GWh              1.4     3.6    5.2    8.2        13%       10%
Peak Demand, MW              0.5     0.8    1.1    1.6
Gen. Capacity, MW            0.5     2.0    2.0    2.0
Firm Capacity, MW             -      1.65   1.65   1.65
The forecast takes into account an exceptional increase in demand in the
first year caused by the phasing out of private generators when the biomass
plant is commissioned early in 1982 and public supply is satisfactory.
5.05      The least-cost comparison has been made by equalizing the present
worth of costs for both alternatives, the biomass plant and the diesel electric
plant. Since the rice husk burned in the biomass plant is an agricultural
waste, with no other use, its opportunity cost is zero. In the biomass
alternative, up to 20% of the fuel burned will be diesel oil and has been
priced accordingly. The equalizing discount rate, assuming an increase of
diesel oil cost at 3% per year, is computed at 25%. The rate of return of
this component is computed at 11% using current tariff levels as proxy for
benefits. Annex 5.2 shows the tabulation of costs and benefits and the
assumption used in the calculations.
Water Supply Component
5.06      The investment carried out for water supply under the Project would
complement the ongoing works on the treatment plant financed from the KfW
credit. Whereas the latter consists of extending the production facilities,
the project investment would supply and install the necessary pumping instal-
lations and distribution network to make the water available to customers.
Areas would be selected which so far have not benefited from a distribution
system or from adequate water pressure in their neighborhood. As a result,
the project would, with a minimum amount of investment, benefit approximately
60,000 people who thus far had to rely on unsafe and more expensive sources of
water supply, and increase the reliability of service to the 150,000 people
already served. Using current water tariffs as proxy, the net benefits from
the projected additional water sales have been calculated to yield a rate of
return of 11% on the proposed investment. Annex 5.3 shows the tabulation of
costs and benefits and the assumptions used in the calculation.
Technical Assistance
5.07      The massive technical assistance component (about 50% of total
project costs) obviously would be instrumental in bringing about the projected
improvement in EDM's institutional capabilities and efficiency. However,



- 33 -
because of the comprehensive and pervasive nature of this technical assistance-
concerning as it does both power and water supply operations and mainly
institutional improvements per se-it is not possible to meaningfully allocate
part or parts of it to the specifically revenue producing components of the
project. Nor would it be meaningful to lump these revenue producing projects
together, add some arbitrary proportion of the techrLical assistance into their
jo:int costs and calculate an economic rate of return on that basis. There-
fore, the costs of technical assistance are here left entirely out of account
as not being quantifiable in terms of EDM's future efficiency and revenue
genieration.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
6.01      In March 1980, Audit Continental (France), a correspondent of Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell & Co., prepared a report on EDM's finances based on the data
as of December 31, 1977. That report plus some unaudited information obtained
from EDM, form the basis of IDA's review of EDM's past financial achievements
and present financial position. This chapter summarizes the available informa-
tion and gives indications of the magnitude of the company's future financial
requirements. However, with regard to the numerous accounting deficiencies
already pointed out in this report (para. 3.25), each of the figures below
should only be considered as indicative. In general, orders of magnitude are
plausible but a large possibility of error remains. As a consequence, the
basis for designing a financial recovery plan is not: available at the moment
and the project focuses rather on two basic objectives: (i) improvement of
EDM's accounting and commercial organization; and (ii) securing enough local
funds for the proposed project.
Background: Status of Assets in the Concession System
6.02      In accordance with the normal practice of the concession system
(paras. 3.02 and 3.03), EDM owns only part of the assets it operates, which
it depreciates on a straight line basis. The remaining assets are considered
part of the "public domain" and are "conceded" to the company for the duration
of the concession. "Public domain" assets may be financed either by the
Government or consumers, or by EDM itself. "Public domain" assets which have
not been financed by EDM are recorded in an annex at:tached to the annual
financial statements. EDM-financed assets in the "public domain" are shown
in EDM's balance sheet as expenditures incurred on behalf of the Government.
In order to be able to surrender all assets in the "public domain" in good
working condition at the end of the concession as required by the concession
agreement, EDM charges to its operating account a renewals provision calculated
on the historical values and useful lives of the corresponding assets. Also,
for public domain assets financed by EDM, the company is entitled to amortize
its investment over the duration of the concession through provisions charged
to its operating account; for these assets a double amortization charge is



- 34 -
reflected in the income statement and balance sheet. Starting with the
balance sheet for the period ending December 31, 1984, the double amortization
is assumed to be eliminated as a result of the government decisions based on
the proposed concession system study (see Annex 6.6).
6.03      In the early 1960's, the Government undertook the construction of
the Sotuba hydroelectric scheme and transferred it when completed, including
the related debt and debt service, to EDM as an additional EDM-financed
"public domain" asset. In the mid-1970's, the Government undertook the
construction of the Selingue hydroelectric scheme which is not planned to be
transferred to EDM, but instead will be operated by the Selingue Authority,l/
from which EDM will buy power. All other power investments have been financed
by EDM while all major water works so far have been financed by the Government
and then transferred to EDM for operation as Government-financed "public
domain" assets. However, for the last several years, adequate financial
information about such Government-financed new assets in the water sector has
not been provided by the Government to EDM, which has introduced, but only
for part of them, estimated values in its records. Therefore, calculation
of the renewal provision in the water sector cannot be properly made and
corresponding capital replacements are underprovided for in EDM's accounts.
Correct valuation of such fixed assets requires a direct inquiry into the
records of both the Ministry of Industrial Development and the Ministry of
Planning. It was agreed during negotiations that by December 31, 1982, the
Government will furnish to EDM appropriate values, e.g., book value, for all
public assets operated in the water sector by EDM. These "values" will be
revalued as a part of the overall asset revaluation excercise (para. 6.07).
1/   The Government has established a new organization to assume the functions
of the Selingue Authority to be called l'Office pour l'Exploitation des
Ressources Hydrauliques du Haut Niger (OERHN).



- 35 -
Past Earnings
6.04      As shown by EDM's books, unaudited earnings for the power and
water sectors for FYs 77-81 are:
Table 6.1
POWER
FY                                 1977     1978      1979      1980      1981
Sales (Gwh)                             76.3      82.3      83.8      99.9     74.0
--------- Maliarn Francs Million ---------
Total revenue                          4,861    5,009    4,964    7,449    6,405
Cash operating expenses                3,832    3,762    3,858    6,115    4,860
Depreciation and Renewals                783    1,054    1,085    1,003    1,324
Total Exp. before Interest             4,615    4,816    4,943    7,1:L8    6,184
Interest                                 166       105       111       2:L8      117
Ne: income (deficit) before tax           80        88       (90)      113       104
Operating ratio                         0.95      0.96      1.00      0.96      0.97
Table 6.2
WA'EER
FY                                 1977     1978      1979      1980      1981
Water sold (million cubic meters)        8.4       8.4       8.7       9.3       8.0
-------- Malian Francs  Million --------
Total revenue                            979       845       939    1,180    1,097
Operating expenses                       980    1,230    1,270    1,5-33    1,719
Nel: income (deficit) before taxes        (1)    (385)    (331)    (352)    (622)
Operating ratio                       0.99      1.45      1.35     1.29      1.56
a/   Including depreciation, renewals and interest.
Table 6.3
Total EDM
FY                                 1977     1978      1979      1980      1981
--------- Malian Francs Million ---------
Tot:al Revenue                         5,840    5,853    5,903    8,629    7,502
Operating Expenses                     5,589    6,040    6,207    8,645    7,898
Surplus (Deficit) before taxes            79      (297)    (421)    (239)    (518)
Operating Ratio                         0.96      1.03      1.05      1.(0      1.05



- 36 -
6.05      Revenues from power operations did not cover operating expenses in
FY1979, whilst revenues from water operations did not cover operating expenses
in any of the past five FYs. In FYs 78 and 79, when EDM introduced into its
accounts the renewals provision for some of the "public domain" water assets
it operates, the operating deficit increased dramatically. Had adequate
maintenance been performed, both power and water sectors would have shown
larger deficits.
Present Financial Position
6.06      Using EDM's most recent provisional balance sheet as of December 31,
1979, information given by DHE on the "public domain" water sector assets, and
adjusted cumulated depreciation for the "public domain" assets, a summary of
the assets and the liabilities of the two sectors as of December 31, 1979
has been established and is shown below:
Table 6.4
Equivalent
MF Million               US$ Million
Assets
Net fixed assets:  power                   9,117                     18.2
water                  8,608                     17.2
17,725                    35.4
Less Net Consumer and Government
financed assets a/                    9,310                    18.6
Net EDM Financed Asset                     8,415                     16.8
Work in progress b/                          736                      1.5
Current assets                             4,866                      9.7
14,017                    28.0
Liabilities
Share capital and Reserves                 7,223                     14.4
Long term debt                             2,604                      5.2
Current liabilities                        4,190                      8.4
14,017                    28.0
a/   Gross value is estimated at MF 14,300 million.
b/   No breakdown available; mostly relates to power.



- 37 -
6.07      The net fixed assets above include assets in the "public domain"
contributed by the Government or customers, which normally appear in the
annex to EDM's balance sheet (paras. 6.02 and 6.03). Offsetting financing is
shown as "Net consumer and Government Contributions". In accordance with
Ma:Lian law, all EDM's assets and the "public domain" assets are valued at
historical cost. Since some aspects of the concession agreement, for instance
the amortization of the company's financings for "public domain" assets,
conflict with the principle of revaluation of assets, a formal revaluation in
the books of account will not be required. However, in order to allow sound
monitoring and management of its operations, EDM has agreed to annually
revalue assets in operation in the power and in the water sectors on a proforma
basis, to allow calculation of rates of return on such revalued assets. In
view of the current lack of adequate records and the time required to assemble
basic data, agreement was obtained during negotiations that such initial pro
forma revaluation would be performed by December 31, 1983 for both the power
and the water sectors including the assets to be conceded by the Government
under the concession system to EDM (see para. 6.03) using a methodology
satisfactory to IDA.
6.08      Current assets as of December 31, 1979 include receivables amount-
ing to about MF 4 billion (US$8.0 million). These debts represent about 8.5
months of billing for FY79. They are owed by: private consumers, 60%;
municipalities, 14%; national Government departments, 11%; and state enter-
prises, 15%. At year-end 1979, the Government agreed to allow EDM to offset
taxes owed to Government against bills outstanding i-rom Government amounting
to approximately MF400 million and, as a result, reduced its debt by approxi-
mately half to about MF500 million. In addition, the recent improvement of
EDM-s computerized billing system helped reduce domestic customers' arrears.
Further reduction of EDM's receivables would require the implementation of the
specific actions included in the proposed technical assistance component
(para. 3.21(i)), and additional EDM and Government measures. During the
negotiations, the Government gave assurances in the form of a supplemental
letter that (a) it has recently paid all its outstanding electricity and water
bills to EDM, and (b) in accordance with overall policy, it has authorized EDM
to disconnect the delinquent consumers including the State owned enterprises
and municipalities. The Government gave assurances that it will continue to
pay its own bills on time and will continue to support the above disconnection
policy. More specifically assurances were obtained from the Government that
(a) its budgets for 1982 and subsequent years will allocate its agencies
sufficient funds for prompt payment of water and electricity bills, (b) by
September 30, 1982, municipalities and state agencies and enterprises will
adapt procedures to ensure prompt payment, (c) beginning December 31, 1982,
arrears by these agencies and enterprises will be kept at levels not exceeding
2 months' billing, and (d) beginning June 30, 1983, arrears by the municipali-
ties will be kept at levels not exceeding 2 months' billing. Assurances were
also obtained from EDM that it will carry out the above mentioned commercial
improvement program as detailed and scheduled in the rehabilitation plan
proposed by EDF, in such a way as to reduce overall consumer arrears to not
more than 3 months' billing by the end of 1982 and to not more than 2 months-
billing by the end of 1983.



- 38 -
6.09      Share capital and reserves amounting to MF 7,223 million (US$14.4
million) are made up of EDM's equity capital of MF 100 million (US$0.2 million),
government net investment contribution of MF 471 million (US$0.9 million),
earned surplus, general reserve, and renewal provision. Long-term debt
includes debt related to the Sotuba dam which is part of the "public domain"
but is being paid by EDM. Pending agreement with IDA on future of concession
system and tariffs, the Government has agreed to assume debt service related
to public domain assets starting January 1, 1982 (see para. 6.14). Since no
major renewals works in the "public domain" have been charged to the renewals
reserve, the corresponding amounts have over the years constituted a major
source of funds for the company's new investment financing. The long-term
indebtedness of the company illustrates that many of the new major works in
the water sector have been contributed to the company by the Government, and
also that EDM has financed from internal funds a significant share of its
investment in the power sector (see annex 6.6).
6.10      Current liabilities as shown in EDM's books include supplier's
accounts of MF 1,278 million (US$2.6 million), and short-term debt of about
MF 2,100 million (US$4.2 million). Short-term debts mostly relate to taxes
owed to the Government and mostly correspond to IAS tax on customers' arrears,
funds provided to EDM on a short-term basis by CCCE and FAC to help ease
treasury constraints, and commercial credits obtained by EDM from its sup-
pliers. The level of this indebtedness is too high, and during the last few
years suppliers have been reluctant to extend credit for supply. These
figures have been particularly questionned by the auditors, and the terms of
reference of the proposed technical assistance team include a specific action
to assess the level of the company's short term indebtedness (para. 3.26).
Tariffs
6.11      EDM has uniform national tariffs for power and water which have
remained unchanged for past several years, and a Government tax (IAS) of MF 20
(USd4) per cubic meter, and of MF 2 (US40.4) per kWh is currently levied.
Both power and water tariffs were increased by 30% effective March 1, 1980,
and are expected to produce average revenues, net of IAS tax, of MF 69/kWh
(US i13.8) and of MF 79/m3 (US415.8). Small domestic power consumers pay a
flat rate of 74 MF/kWh (USJ14.8). Larger domestic consumers pay according
to a declining-block structured tariff from MF 97/kWh (USd19.4) to MF 64/kWh
(US412.8). Public lighting is charged to municipalities according to a
similar declining-block tariff with prices varying from MF 88/kWh (US417.6)
to MF 59/kWh (US411.8). Small commercial consumers are charged a flat rate
of MF 88/kWh, whilst larger commercial consumers pay a fixed charge according
to their installed capacity with different unit rates for peak and off-peak
consumption. Industrial consumers also pay a fixed charge based on their
installed capacity, with unit energy prices varying from MF 80/kWh (US416.0)
during peak hours to MF 45/kWh (US49.0) during off-peak hours. All above
unit energy prices include the MF 2/kWh IAS tax. For water, all consumers pay
a flat rate consumption charge of MF 99 per cubic meter (USd19.8) IAS tax
included, except for standpipe consumption which is billed to municipalities
at MF 94 per cubic meter (USJ18.8) IAS tax included. Additional revenues
from meter rentals average MF 1.5/kWh (USe0.3) and XF 13/m3 (US62.6).



- 39 -
6.12      Following commissioning of the Selingue dam and further expansion
of EDM's hydrogeneration capacity (see Chapter II), Mali's power production
pattern will be completely changed, and power tariff structures will have
to be reviewed. Water tariffs will also have to be reviewed to take into
account investment plans, operating costs, debt service requirements and
social aspects of water consumption. As agreed during negotiations, the
proposed project includes financing of tariff studies for power and water,
taking into account marginal cost of supply and financial requirements, to
be completed before December 31, 1983.
Revenue Covenant
6.13      Given the lack of adequate information, the definition of suitable
long-run financial objectives is difficult at this time for either the water
or power sectors separately or for EDM as a complete entity. As a, consequence,
it is proposed that the definition of such targets be deferred until the time
of' the second phase of the rehabilitation program. In addition, with regard
tc the poor service that EDM has been providing to its power customers, it has
been difficult to ask EDM to raise its power tariff, even though such tariff
increase appears to be urgently needed. However, since the recent introduc-
tion of a reliable supply of power from Selingue will gradually improve
service in the Bamako area, a tariff increase should now become possible.
During negotiations the Government and EDM agreed to the basic principle
that appropriate managerial and tariff actions should be taken so that EDM's
consolidated net cash generation for the two sectors calculated as the dif-
ference between consolidated revenues and (a) consolidated cash operating
expenses, (b) consolidated debt service and, (c) consolidated working capital
requirements, be at least equal to 10% for 1984 and each year thereafter of
total capital expenditures for the year. Pending completion of the tariff
study and subsequent agreement on tariffs, it is assumed in this report that
EDM will be responsible for the 10% internal cash generation related to
EDM-financed capital expenditure only. The government will be responsible for
1CO% of public domain capital expenditure during the same period. From FY84
onwards EDM would satisfy the same net cash generation target but for the
pcwer and the water sectors individually. This will allow EDM to generate
sufficient cash to finance local costs of the proposed investment program
which would allow the company to renew its past practice (see para. 6.09), a
practice which proved to be beneficial since it allowed EDM to keep a certain
amount of autonomy in a country where the Government has been facing persistent
financial difficulties. In order to achieve the above minimum targets,
the Government has implemented an 11% increase in EDM's electricit:y tariffs
ef'fective February 1, 1982. Furthermore, EDM will (a) by July 1, 1982,
increase electricity tariffs by an additional 8%; (b) automatically adjust
tariffs to cover any increases in the cost of purchased electricit:y;
(c) automatically adjust tariffs to compensate for increases in the cost of
operations due to inflation; and (d) by January 1, 1983, increase water
tariffs by 10%.  At the time of a subsequent loan, appropriate long-term
arrangements would be adopted based on more accurate financial dat:a and the
completed tariff studies.



- 40 -
6.14      The Government shall also assume as of January 1, 1982 the services,
as to both principal and interest, of all debt incurred prior to such date for
the financing of power or water facilities in the public domain, as defined in
the relevant concession agreements, until otherwise agreed by the Borrower and
the Association on the basis of the results of the exchanges of views on the
tariff and concession system studies included in the Project.
Financial Projections
6.15      Tentative capital investment requirements for the two sectors for
the period FY82-87, and tentative corresponding financial sources based on the
assumption that the above revenue targets (para. 6.13) are satisfied, are
summarized in Table 6.5. Further details are given in Annex 6.5.
Table 6.5
1982 - 87  ---------
MF            US$
million       million        %
REQUIREMENTS
Capital expenditures
- project power                        18,757         37.5
water                         2,361          4.7
s/total a/                   21,118         42.2          98
- others  EDM-financed                    477           1.0          2
Total capital expenditures                   21,595         43.2         100
SOURCES
Depreciation and renewals prov.              13,299         26.6          62
Income before interest net of taxes           8,471         16.9          39
Total cash generated                         21,770         43.5         101
less
Income Tax                                   1,434          2.9            7
Increase in working capital                  5,668         11.3          26
Debt service                                12,047         24.1          56
Net internal cash generation             2,621          5.2          12
External sources
- Proposed IDA credit b/                    11,995         24.0          55
- Proposed cofinanciers                      8,625         17.2          40
Total external sources                      23,240         46.4         107
Less increase surplus                        (1,645)       (3.2)         (7)
Total Sources                               21,595         43.2         100
a/   PPF refinancing not included.
b/   PPF refinancing included.



- 41 -
6.16      EDM financed capital expenditure for the two sectors for the period
FY82-87 totals about MF 21.6 billion (US$43.2 million). The proposed project
capital expenditure of MF 21.1 billion (US$42.2 million), which provides MF
18.8 billion (US$37.5 million) for power, and MF 2.3 billion (US$4.7 million)
fo:r water would represent about 98% of EDM's total program for the power and
wai:er sector over 1982-87 period. Power sector capital expenditures have also
been assumed for (a) the Bamako-Segou transmission line; (b) the first tranche
of the extension of the Sotuba hydroplant; and (c) miscellaneous extensions of
distribution and generation facilities in Bamako and in outstations (Annex
6.5). However these are assumed to be fully financed by the Government pending
resolution of tariff and concession studies (see para. 6.13). Accordingly
these have not been included in the Table 6.5.
6.17      EDM's internal cash generation net of debt: service as a percentage
of total capital expenditures is estimated to be above the minimum 10% for
1982 through 1987. Further power tariff increases of 4% in 1985 and 7% in
1986 and 12% in 1987 have been assumed in order to eliminate operating deficit
and maintain a reasonable debt service coverage. These figures will be firmed
up on completion of tariff and various accounting studies. Similarly, the
information about composition of the investments in 1985 onwards will be known
better on completion of various studies which will be undertaken as a part of
this project. Accordingly the 1985 onward data ref:Lected in Tables 6.4 and
6.5 are very preliminary. The above level of internal cash generation would
be sufficient to cover all local costs which normally do not exceed 10% of
total costs. Other requirements would be covered by:
(i) the proposed IDA credit of MF 12 billion (US$24 million); and
(ii) associated project cofinancing of MF 8.6 billion (US$17.2 million)
- fulfillment of all conditions precedent to their disbursement will
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para. 4.17).
Future Finances
6.18      Tentative income statements cash flow, and balance sheets for FYs
82-87 are given in Annexes 6.1 to 6.5; relative assumptions are in Annex 6.6.
The main features of the financial projections for the two sectors are given
below:



- 42 -
Table 6.6
FY1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Power
Sales (Gwh)                       89.4    98.4   108.2   119.0    130.9   144.0
Net Income (deficit)
(MF million)                     744      453      430      19        82       72
Operating ratio %                 0.89    0.91    0.89    0.90        0.88    0.89
Water
Sales (mm3)                       11.7    12.9    14.1    16.4        18.1    19.2
Net income (deficit)
(MF million)                      39      (38)    178      242       339      308
Operating ratio                   0.96    1.00    0.90    0.89        0.86    0.88
Total EDM
Funds Available From Operations  100        370      570      585      500      495
EDM Capital Expendi':ure            830   3,520   5,040   5,265    4,445   2,495
Funds available as % of
Tot. Cap. Exp.                   12%      11%      11%      11%      11%      12%
Debt/Equity                      41/59   52/48   61/39   67/33    72/28   71/29
Debt Service Coverage             3.22    2.72    2.05    1.58        1.57    1.42
6.19      On the basis of available information and assumptions outlined in
Annex 6.6, meeting the financial targets set out in para. 6.13 would require
periodic tariff increases. For the power sector, 11% increase on February 1,
1982, 8% effective July 1, 1982 and others as discussed in para. 6.17 have
been assumed. For I:he water sector, 10% increase on January 1, 1983, has been
assumed. The Government has agreed (see para. 6.13).
6.20      It was agreed during negotiations that the Government would onlend
the IDA credit to E])M at 9.6% interest for a period of 20 years including five
years' grace. However, as the financial condition of EDM permits, the 9.6%
rate shall be reviewqed annually by the Government and IDA with a view to its
progressive modification to conform to the then generally applicable relending
rate for proceeds o" IDA's credits. It was agreed that the foreign exchange
risk would be borne by EDM. It has been assumed future external assistance
would bear an average interest rate of 7% p.a. and have an average repayment
period of 15 years. On the basis of these assumptions the proposed tariff
increases would permit EDM to cover its debt service from FY82 onward.
6.21      In order to be assured that debt service will not be excessive,
and that availability of both local and foreign costs will be assured, the
Government and EDM agreed during negotiations: (i) to exchange views with
the Association on the costs and benefits and on the economic justification



- 43 -
of the investment before incurring any debt in excess of US$1 million for
each operation on behalf of the power or the urban water sectors; and (ii) to
submit to IDA annually by March 31 of each year, a program detailing all
investments planned in the power and the water sectors, and corresponding
sources of both local and foreign funds, for the next three years.
VII.  SUMMARY OF PROPOSED AGREEMENTS ANI) COVENANTS
Assurances and covenants
7.01      Agreement was reached with the Government and with EDM during
negotiations, upon the following matters:
A. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(i) EDM will recruit a project coordinator on terms of reference
already agreed with the Association (para. 4.13);
(ii)  EDM will sign a contract for the provision of a team of experts
to assist EDM's management on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.03);
(iii) IDA will be notified by FAC, CCCE and OPEC Fund that all conditions
precedent to the disbursement of their respective grants or loans
(except for the effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit) have
been fulfilled (para. 6.17);
B.  Other Conditions
(iv)  EDM will implement a complete cost accouniting system to allow
separated financial management and accounts of the power and the
water sectors by January 1, 1984 (para. 3.26);
(v) Starting with its accounts for FY83, EDM will have its annual
accounts audited by an independent auditor under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA, and reports will be made available to IDA
within four months of the end of each fiscal year. For FY1982
EDM will provide: (a) a brief joint report on EDM's account by EDM
and the accounting consulting firm hired under the project; and
(b) an external audit of the Project relaited expenditure (para. 3.28);
(vi)  EDM will submit to IDA, by March 31, 1984, for IDA's approval, a
proposal to adjust its insurance contracts (para. 3.29);
(vii) The Government will carry out studies to determine the merits of:
(a) combining EDM and OERHN in a single power utility;
(b) separation of power and water utilities; and
(c) concession system (para. 4.16).



- 44 -
(viii) The Government will set at a planning office and prepare medium
and long term plans for the optimal development of the electrical
sector in Mali, including a rural electrification plan (para. 4.16);
(ix) EDM will engage consultants to design the physical components of
the Project, to prepare tender documents, and to supervise construc-
tion (para. 4.17);
(x) Monitoring criteria and reporting requirements were agreed,
and EDM will submit reports to the Association on a quarterly
basis (para. 4.19);
(xi) By December 31, 1982, the Government will furnish to EDM appropriate
values for all public assets operated in the water sector by EDM
(para. 6.03);
(xii) EDM will revalue assets in operation in the power and in the water
sectors (including the assets to be conceded to EDM by Government),
on a pro forma basis, using a methodology satisfactory to IDA, by
December 31, 1983 (para. 6.07);
(xiii) the Government will: (a) continue its recently introduced policy
of paying electricity/water bills on time; (b) continue to support
disconnection policy for all consumers; (c) ensure that budgets for
FY82 and subsequent years will contain sufficient funds for payment
of power and water supply by all Government agencies; (d) set-up
appropriate arrangements by September 30, 1982 for municipalities
and state enterprises to pay their bills promptly; and (e) take
appropriate action to reduce the arrears of the state enterprises
and the municipalities to no more than 2 months of billing by
December 31, 1982 and June 30, 1983 respectively (para. 6.08);
(xiv) EDM will: (a) implement a commercial improvement program satisfac-
tory to IDA; (b) reduce total consumer arrears to 3 months of
billing by year-end 1982, and to no more than 2 months of billing
by year-end 1983 onwards (para. 6.08);
(xv) A power tariff study and a water tariff study taking into account
marginal cost of supply and financial requirements will be completed
before December 31, 1983 (para. 6.12);
(xvi) EDM would take appropriate managerial and tariff actions so that its
consolidated net cash generation for the two sectors calculated as
the difference between consolidated revenues and (a) consolidated
cash operating expenses, (b) consolidated debt service and (c)
consolidated working capital requirements be at least equal to 10%
in 1984 and each year thereafter of total capital expenditures for
the year. From FY84 onwards EDM would satisfy the same net cash



- 45 -
generation target, but for the power and water sectors individually.
In order to achieve the above minimum targets, in addition to the
already implemented 11% increase in electricity tariffs effective
February 1, 1981, EDM will: (a) by July 1, 1982, increase elec-
tricity tariffs by an additional 8%; (b) automatically adjust
tariffs to cover any increases in the cost of purchased electricity;
(c) automatically adjust tariffs to compensate for increases in the
cost of operations due to inflation; and (d) by January 1, 1983,
increase water tariffs by 10% (para. 6.13);
(xvii) The Government shall assume as of January 1, 1982 the services,
as to both principal and interest, of all debt incurred prior to
such date for the financing of power or water facilities in the
public domain, as defined in the relevant concession agreements,
until otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Association on the
basis of the results of the exchanges of views on the tariff and
concession system studies included in the Project (para. 6.14);
(xviii)  Government will on-lend proceeds of the Credit to EDM, at 9.6%
interest rate, for a period of 20 years including 5 years  grace.
However, as the financial condition of EDM permits, the 9.6% interest
rate will be reviewed annually by the Govesrnment and IDA with a view
to its progressive modification to confonn to the then generally
applicable relending rate for IDA credits (para. 6.20);
(xix) EDM will assume the exchange rate risk (para. 6.20); and
(xx)  The Government and EDM will:  (a) exchange views with IDA on the
costs and benefits and economic justification, before incurring any
debt in excess of US$1 million for each operation on behalf of the
power or of the urban water sectors, and (b) submit to IDA annually,
by March 31 of each year, a program detailing all investments
planned in the power and the water sectors, and corresponding
sources of local and foreign funds, for the next three years
(para. 6.21).
Recommendations
7.02      Subject to reaching agreement on the subjects listed in the paragraph
above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$24 million.
The credit would be onlent to EDM at 9.6% interest, for a period of 20 years
including 5 years- grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by EDM
(para. 6.20).



- 46 -                            ANNEX 1.1
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ENERGIE DU MALI
First Power/Water Project
Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Etude de Rentabilite de l'Interconnection Bamako-Segou, Decembre 1979,
EDF;
2.   Plan Directeur du Reseau de Distribution de la Ville de Bamako,
Fevrier 1980, EDF;
3.   Plan Directeur d'Alimentation en Eau Potable de Bamako, Juin 1980,
SAFEGE;
4.   Report on Upgrading of the Bamako water treatment plant, by G. Wagner,
June 1980;
5.   Rapport Provisoire d'un Schema Directeur de la Formation Professionnelle
des Personnels du Secteur de 1'Eau Potable, par G. Castegneau, Juillet,
1980;
6.   Statistiques Analytiques des Activites de l'Energie du Mali, Annees 1977
et 1980;
7.   Plan de Redressement de l'Energie du Mali, draft, Octobre 1980, EDF;
8.   Arrete No. 531/MFC-CAB, 7 Fevrier 1980, abrogeant et remplacant l'arrete
No. 1357 du 30 Avril 1976 portant homologation des Tarifs de Consommation
de l'Eau et de l'Electricite;
9.   Centrale Mopti/Sevare, Avant-Projet, Aout 1980;
10. Ivory Coast First Power Project - Staff Appraisal Report: June 18, 1980
Annex 10: "The Concession System in public utilities".



ENERGIE DU MALI
Bamako Electric System
Actual and Projected Generation, Peak Demand, System Capability and Energy Sales
Actual                                                   Projected
Year ending December 31,              1976    1977    1978    1979           1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Generation (GWh):                     66.4    75.0    83.8    85.8          104       74       90       99     109      120      132 9    175
Sctuba Hydro                        33.0    37.6    32.9    34.6           35       35       35       35      35       35       35       35
Selingue Hydro 1/                    -        -        -        -          32       35       55       64       74      85       97      139
Dar Salam Diesel                     33.4    37.4    50.9    51.2          37        4        -        -        -        -        -        1
Statt0n Use (GWh):                      3.1     3.4      4.4      4.5         3.0      1.2      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8    '0.9
Net eeneration (GWh):                  63.3    71.6    79.4    81,3         101.0    75.2    89.2    98.2   108.2   119.2   131.2   174.1
Energy Sales (GWh):                    56.3    63.7    70.6    72.4          90.5    67.0    81         89       98      108     119      155
EnerRy Losses and Unaccounted
for in % of net gen,                11%      11%      11%      11%         10%      11%      11%      10%      10o      10%     10%      11%
System Capability (MW)                                                       20.9    20.9    49.1 -11 49.1    49.1    49.1    49.1    49.1
Peak Demand (MW)                       13.0    13.1    15.4    15.4          20.0    20.0    19.5    21.5    23.6    26.0    28.6    37.9
Reserve                                                                       0.9      0.9    29.6    27.6    25.5    23.1    20.5    11.2
Annual Load Factor                      0.58    0.65    0.62    0.64          0.59    0.42    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53
/ Selingue's generation is referred to Bamako's substation.
2/ Includes energy transmitted to Segou-Markala
3/ Consists of 5.4MW at Sotuba, 15.5MW at Dar Salam, and 28.2MW of firm output at Selingue .
Note: Bamako's Electric System includes presently Koulikoro .
From 1986 onward Segou-Markala and Fana will be linked to Bamako.                                                                           >
x



ENERGIE DU MALI
Electric Systems in Provincial Centers (Exceptin  Segou-Markala and Mopti-Sevare)
Actual and Projected Generation and Energy Sales
Actual                                      Projected
Year ending December 31      1976    1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Generation (GWh):            7.5     7.4    9.6    9.7    10.0   10.3   10.7   11.0   11.4   11.9   12.3   12.7   13.1
Sales (GWh):                4.8      5.7    6.5    6.7      7.0    7.2    7.5    7.7    8.0    8.3    8.6    8.9    9.2
EnergY Lost, Unaccounted    36%      23%    32%    30%     30%    30%    30%    30%   30%    30%    30%    30%    30%
for and Station Use,
as % of Gross Generation
Segou-Markala Electric System
Generation at Markala (GWh):
(Diesel)                 3.7     4.1    4.1    4.1      4.1    4.5    4.5    4.5                                           X
Sales (GWh)                 2.8     3.3    3.5    3.3      3.3    3.6    3.6    3.6
EnergY Lost, Unaccounted    24%     20%    15%    20%      20%    20%    20%    20%
for and Station Use,
as % of Gross Generation
Note:  Segou-Markala is linked to Bamako in 1984 onward
Mopti-Sevare Electric System
Generation (GWh):
Mopti Diesel              1.4     1.7    1.9    1.7      1.9    2.0    2.0
Sevare Biomass Thermal                                                         4.1   4.7    5.2    5.8    6.8    7.1
Sales (GWh)                 1.2     1.2    1.7    1.4      1.6    1.7    1.7    3.4   3.9    4.3    4.8    5.6    5.8
EnergY Lost, Unaccounted    16%     25%    13%    15%      15%    15%    15%    18%   18%    18%    18%    18%    18%
for and Station Use,
as % of Gross Generation



ORGRANIZATlON CUARl PO EDM
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPUTY GENERAL_
HANAGER
| COANIDIATOR                           |INSP,CTION|
SUPPLY |     |TRAINING I      |ADMINISTRATIVEl    FINANCIAL |         |WATER SUPPLY |        POWER          iPRODUCTION AND          OPERATIONS OUTRIDE |       BMAKO I D           PLANNING  I |ENGINEERINGI
| ~~ ~SERVICE | L!VC            SERVICE              S 1ERVICE|         SERV ICE  i    DISTRIBUTION         TRANSMISSION           OP RAMARO SERVICEu    OPERAT IONSJ| DEPARTMENTf                 DEPARTMENT|
TRAINING                                    PRODUCTION       DISTRIBUTION   EN INEERING        INTERCONNECTED     PRODUCTION OUTSIDE
CENTER                                                                                             GRID            OF BAMAKO                   WATER SUPPLY       POWER        CUSTOMERS
OPERATIONS    DISTRIBUTION       AND
FINANCES 
DATA PROCESSING    ACCOUNTING    CUSTOMERS    CASN
MANAGEMENT
WATER SUPPLY    POWER         CUSTOMERS
OPERATIONS    DISTRIBUTION      AND
FINANCES
OPERATIONS     METER
CALIBRATION
WORYSRNOP



- 5s -
ANNEX 3.2
SUMMARY OF THE REHABILITATION PLAN FOR EDM
The decision to design a complete rehabilitation plan for EDM was taken
in June 1980 following a common mission in Mali by IDA, CCCE, FAC and EDF. The
study was financed by CCCE and performed by EDF. A first draft was available
in October 1980 and further reviewed with EDM and cofinanciers. The Malian
Government's agreement on a general outline for the study was given in June 1980
and the Government has been kept informed ever since of the progress of the study,
particularly by IDA's post-appraisal mission of December 1980.
The draft rehabilitation plan is available, in French, in the project
file. A summary of its contents is given below:
1st volume
1-  Environment of the study
2-  Introduction
3-  Objectives
4-  Method
5-  Means
6-  Schedule
7-  First phase
8-  Second phase
Annex I: Terms of reference of the EDF study
Annex II: Structure of action
Annex III: Status of the experts and organization of their work
Annex IV: Detailed terms of reference for each of the proposed experts
Annex V: Internal control of the objectives of the technical assistance
Annex VI: Housing of the experts
Annex VII: Training program for EDM's staff
Annex VIII: Follow-up of actions and performance measurement - detailed
reporting
Annex IX: Terms of reference for the assistance to the accounting service
Annex X: Terms of reference for the assistance to the maintenance of
technical facilities
Annex XI: Proposals for a better involvement of the Malian staff
Annex XII: Existing Malian students in French engineering schools
Annex XIII: Calculation of experts' salaries
Annex XIV: Complementary studies requested by EDM.
2nd volume
1-  Detailed terms of reference for the rehabilitation of the Dar-Salam
thermal plant
2-            teims of fetr:nc ioo thk~e  ntoxy of sevi-ce c         co',
update of customers' files and accounts, review of EDM's billing
system and organization of a commercial department.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4.1
ENERGIE DU MALI
First Power/Water Project
Breakdown of Technical Assistance Costs
1/
US$ million          CCCE/
Total      IDA    FAC
1.  Technical assistance personnel -- 52.5 man-year at: an       5.70      2.08   3.62
aiverage of US$108,570 per man-year 2/
2.  Studies and actions to be carried out:
<'a) updating of customers files and accounts,              2.94       2.94    -
review of EDM's billing system, and organization
of a Customers Department, including follow-up
personnel
(b) assistance to review and strengthen EDM's               0.29       0.29    -
accounting services
(c) assistance in organizing a preventive maintenance       0.24       0.24    -
system for both power and water supply
(d) assistance in building up a short/medium term           0.88       0.88    -
planning capability for the power and water
sectors and financing of a study on medium/long
term system planning to:
(i) determine the optimum development of the
Bamako power system into an interconnected
grid in southern Mali; and '
(ii) assess medium-term rural electrification needs
and make proposals for a realistic rural elec-
trification plan
(e) power and water tariff study                            0.24       0.24    -
(f) study on the merits of a single power entity            0.12       0.12    -
which would result from merging EDM with the
power activities of the Selingue Authority once
EDM is strenghened
(g) study on the advantages and disadvantages of the        0.06       0.06    -
concession system in EDM's case
3.  'Physical facilities to house the Bamako operation and       1.47      1.47    -
the data processing equipment, and extension of training
center to house training in water supply
4.  Construction of 10 housing units for technical assistance 1.28           -     1.28
specialist
5.  Overseas training for EDM's staff -- 36 man-months           0.08      0.08    -
6.  EDF's fee for supervision of technical assistance            0.29      0.29    -
Total Base Line Cost (mid 1981 prices)                        13.59      8.69   4.90
Contingencies: physical                                        0.70      0.45   0.25
prices                                         2.71      1.16   1.55
Total Technical Assistance Cost                               17.00     10.30   6.70
1/  Foreign exchange costs.  EDM will provide local costs in kind1
2/ Includes depreciation, maintenance and operation (including gasoline)
for a private vehicle supplied to each expert.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4.2
PROJECT MONITORING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Project and program reporting
1. Within 60 days of the end of each calendar quarter, a progress report is
required which would provide detailed information and comments on project
execution/procurement; existing and potential delays - and causes - comparatively
to original implementation schedules; actual and final project cost broken down
between local and foreign cost by credit categories; disbursement schedule; and on
any event affecting - or which could significantly affect - the project execution,
with actions recommended to safeguard satisfactory progress of the project.
2. Within 60 days of the end of each calendar semester, a semi-annual progress
report is required which would provide information on the execution of all of EDM
or DHE investment programs in the power or the water sector - programs which are
not part of the project itself - this report will mainly focus on construction
schedule and potential execution delays (and their causes) and on cost estimates.
Other technical matters
3. Within 60 days of the end of each calendar semester, a semi-annual progress
report will be established by EDM and sent to IDA which would include:
(i) power and water sales (GWh and m3) in Bamako and outstations;
(ii) monthly peak power demand in Bamako;
(iii) a summarized description of power and water operations during the past
semester outlining main problems encountered and solutions proposed.
Commercial reporting
4. Within 60 days of the end of each calendar semester, a semi-annual report
on progress achieved in the commercial field including:
(i) a statement of actual total sales by consumers category;
(ii) number of consumers; and
(iii) a statement on receivables broken down between main categories of consumers.
Financial reporting
5. An annual financial report would be required within four months of the end of
each fiscal year which would comprise:
(i) income statement and balance sheet, including annexes related to "public
domain" assets;
(ii) fund flow statement showing the calculation of net cash generation and
capital expenditures in the public and private domains;
(iii) starting with report on fiscal year 82, a statement showing historical and
revalued values of assets in operation.
6. In addition, by September 30 of each year, a financial plan for the three sub-
sequent years will be submitted to IDA. This plan will detail: (a) capital expendi-
tures under consideration in the power and water sector, by EDM, and Government and
other third parties and, (b) related sources of fund.



Extension of Bamako Distribution
Tabulation for Rate of Return Calculation
Increment
GWh               in Sales                                      Incremental Expenses          Net Cash
Supplied    Sales   over 1984   Benefits         Investment       Generation    0 & N1           Flow
Year      to Grid       GWh      GWh       US$million       US$million       US$million   US$ million    US$ million
1982        124         110                                   0.86                                           (0.86)
1983        139         124                                   3.43                                           (3.43)
1984        154         137                                   1.61                                           (1.61)
1985        171         152       15        -2.17                                             0.36            1.8
1986/2016      171                   15        2.17                                0.36         0.42             1.39
Equalizing discount rate: 21%.
Note: ( ) means negative figure.
Assumptions: 1.  Useful life of distribution extension: 33 years                                                         ul
2.  Sales attributable to the project are the difference between sales in any given
year(up to year 1985)and sales in 1984 when the distribution extension is completed.
From 1985 onward and up to 2016 sales attributable to the project are kept constant
at the figure for 1985.
3. Sales of power have been computed by deducting from net energy supplied to the
system 11% losses in the distribution system.
4. Benefits are computed at the current (1980) average
tariff.
5.  Cost of energy up to year i185 is taken at the opportunity cost of energy supplied
from Selingue, which is zero. After 1985 the energy cost is taken at the long term
marginal cost of generation, which is the cost of energy produced by the extension
to the Sotuba hydroelectric plant. This cost is computed at US24.2 mills per kWh.
6   TncrPmPntl-.1 ePvnpnse  for distribtiion are the variable expenses for maintenance- trans-
port and supplies adjusted to a level reflecting adequate maintenance.
7. A conversion factor of 0.85 was used for all local costs and benefits.



Mopti/Sevar6 Biomass Power Plant
Tabulation for Rate of Return Calculation
Gross                                                         Incremental        Net
Generation   Sales   Benefits   Investment       Fuel cost          0 & M        Cash flow
Year        GWh        GWh    US$million  US$million    US$million        US$million      US$million
1983                                         1.97                                           (1.97)
1984                                         2.69                                          (2.69)
1985       4.1          3.6     0.52                       0.10             0.03             0.39
1986       4.7         4.1      0.60                       0.11             0.03            0.46
1987       5.2         4.5      0.65        0.49           0.12             0.03            0.01
1988       5.8         5.1      0.74                       0.14             0.03            0.57
1989       6.8         5.9      0.85                       0.16             0.03            0.66
1990       7.1         6.2      0.89                       0.17             0.03            0.69
1991       7.8         6.8      0.90                       0.19             0.03            0.68
1992/2005    8.2         7.1      1.03                       0.20             0.03            0.80
Equalizinig discount rate: 11%.
Note: ( ) means negative figure.
Assumptions:  1.  Useful life of power plant:  20 years
2.  Benefits are computed at the average tariff prevailing at the time of appraisal.
3.  Sales of power have been computed by deducting from gross generation the station's
own consumption 5% and technical losses in distribution 8%
4. Cost of fuel is taken at zero for rice husk throughout the life of the plant and at
US$0.024 per kWh for gas oil (20% of total fuel used).
5. Incremental 0 & M expenses are computed at US$15 per kW of installed capacity per year.
6. A conversion factor of 0.85 was used for all local costs and benefits.



Water Supply Component
Tabulation for Rate of Return Calculation
Incremental                                              Incremental           Net
Water Sales        Benefits          Investment            0 & M            Cash Flow
Year        Thousand m3        US$ million       US$ million          US$ million       US$ million
1982                                                 0.64                                (0.64)
1983                                                 1.29                                (1.29)
1984          1,314               0.26                                   0.02             0.24
1985/2013     1,314               0.26                                   0.02             0.24
Equalizing discount rate: 11%.
Note: ( ) means negative figure.
Assumptions:  1.  Useful life of investment: 30 years.
2.  Incremental water sales are computed at an average of 60 liter per day for 60,000 people.    L
3.  Benefits are computed at the current (1980) average tariff.
4.  Incremental 0 & M expenses are calculated at US$0.02 million per year.
5.  A conversion factor of 0.85 was used for all local costs and benefits.
LO



A                  C        0         E        F         G         H        I         T         K        L         H         N
2       6 -9-ss   I NCOME POWER
-f      PM       MIALI FT RST POWER-WATER PRO JECT - ENERG I E DIJ MRL I                                                    RNNEX 6.1
4       PNCOME STATEMENTS - POWER
5                                                                   (MILLION MALIAN FRANCS)
6
7                                                  1979      s01e               192 s2   1998 iss4           1985     1986      1987
8       SALES  OF  ENERGY                          -----                                 -----     -----     -----     ----- __
9       -----/----------
10      ENEROG  SOLD GWH                           Sf 8      9'9 9       74     89. 4     98. 4    108S 2      119    1f0 9       144
11     FAVG P#ICE BEFORE TAR. INC. (FM/KWH)           5--:     68        76       69        69        69        69       69        69
12      SALE5 OF ENERGY BEFORE TAR.. INC           4456      6783      s624    6s178      6790      7466      8211     9032      9936
12      C:UMMIJI9RTIVE TAR. INC FACTOR              100       100       100      114       119       119       124      132       148
14      SALE5 OF EGY AFTER TAR. INC                4456      67.783    5624     7042      8s080     8884    10182    11922    14705
15
16      REVENIO'E
17
IS      SALE'- OF ENERGY                           4456      6783      5624     7042      s080      8884    10182    11922    14705
1'9     IAS oN ENERGY                               147       180       142      178       l81       199      219       241       265
20      RECHARGEABLE WORKS                          221       291       459      2.7-_ -f5           f78       449      528       622
21      METER RENTAL                                124       148       1-2      205       21e       277       312      313       386
22      EXP. TRANS. TO CARP TAL A CCOUNT             10        40         8       28        -e0       f6        43       51        60
22      TISCEI-LANEOUS                                6         7         0       12        12        12        12       12        12
24                                                                                          -     -         -----    -----       ---
25      TOTAL REVENUE ENERGYT                      4964      7449     e;405               0x77fs    ss2>4  9787    11217    13067    16050
26                                                   -
27      EXPEN ITTURES
28
29      ENER'39 BOUGHT FROM SELINGUE                  9      1088     1197      22@9      - 2sFe6    2s960   :4t)0    .-80       5560
3-      FUEL AND MISCELLANEOUS                     1925    2&88:    1.253       1099      1274     1526      1828      2002      2520
fL1    nITHERl CONSUIPTIOrN                         258      4ee       626        5f      200       220       242       266      293
-fZ     PERSONNEL                                  7F92       795      81.0    1000       i2-r.?   1402      1576      1753      1951
-r-     TsxE5 AX-S                                             2se. A  164       200       216      2se       2e09      262       427
f4     TAS oN ENERGY                                147      190       166       178      11.       1199      219       240      265
-f5     EX'TERNTrJA- SERVICES   SUPPI TIFS          402                960 9ss   601       i-1      727       800       880       968
36      TRAN5PORT                                   2-f8      274       79        80       2er0     22e0      242       266       293
-l7    DPEPPC:IATION AND RENEWAL                  :ILAle     tLl-Z    1'24      1406     157 A         159   1.12      1.858     2088
-r. 9   TOTAi- EXPENDITI RES BEFORE TNTFREST       494-     711.8     6184      686'.9    se02-6   :2672    10128    11508    14265
40      SURPLLUS BEFORE INTEREST                     21       -f:l     221       869       79s     1114      1089      1559      1685
4-1     INTFPFST                                   t111       2718      117      1.25      245      684      1070      1477      1613-
42
4-Z     SURPLI'S AsFTER INTFREST                    -90       113     i14       744      453       470        19        82        72
44      OPERATrNG RRTIO                           99. 58    95. 55    96 55    88 77    9e. 96    88 62    90 29    8.. 07    89. 50
45



46          B         C        D         E        F         G         H        I         J         K        L         M         N
47      6-9-82   INCOME WATER
48                                                      MALI FIRST POWER/WATER PROJECT - ENERGIE DO  MALI                   ANNEX 6. 2
49                                                                IINCOME STATEMENTS - WATER
58                                                                  <MILLION MALIRN FRRNCS)
51
52                                                 1979      1980      1981     1982      982      1984      1985     1986      1987
53      SALES OF WRTER                                      ----- -----    -----    -----          -----    -----      ----    -----
54      ---------------
55      WATER SOLD CMM3)                             8. 7     9. 3        8     11. 7     12 9      14. 1     i6S4     18.1    19. 2
56      AVG PRICE BEFORE TAR. INC.                61. 72     78. 3       79        79       79        79        79        79       79
57      SALES OF WATER BEFORE TAR. INC.             537       728       632      924      e189      1114      1296     1430      1517
58      CUMMU1LATIVE TAR  INC FACTOR                08       108       88      180      128       120       128      128       120
59      SALES OF WATER AFTER TRAR. INC.             537       728       632     1087      1223      1337       555     1716     1820
60
61      REVENUE
62       --
63      SALES OF WATER                               537      728       632     107      1222      1337      1555     1716      1828
S4      IRS ON WATER                                 58      168       1Sl      195       232       254       295      326       346
69      PFCHARGEABL F WORKS                          133      137       12r       162      248       296      327       438       497
66      METER RENTAL                                  88      128       148       176      275       305       353       391      415
67      E.<XP. TRANS. TO CAPITAL ACCOUNT              22       26        48        32       49        58        73        87       98
8      MISCELLANEOUS                                  I                 e         2        2         2         3         3         3
ss                                                 ---    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    _----    -----
78      TOTAL REVENUE WATER                          939     188      1097     1584      2828      2251      2648     2960      3l79
7:1
72      EXPEND I TURES
73      ------------
74      CHEMICALS AND OTHERS                         272      314       312       316      32.       352       387       426      469
7.C,    PERSONNEL                                   1ii l-3n            _ 2      277       30e       338       363      399       439
76      TAXES                                         35       45        91        3.5      s9        82       183       122      138
77      IRS ON WATER                                 58      168       151       195      2.32      254       295       326      346
78      EXTERNAL SERVICES & SUPPLIES                 288      353       359       314      488       448       484       532      585
79      TRANSPO3PT                                    26       38         7        12       38        33        36        48       44
8s      DEPRECIATIOCN AND RENEWAL                    360      487       572       366      682       548       687       715      779
8l                                                                             ----      -----    --__ _                         -----
82      TOTAL EXPENDITUJRES BEFOPE INTEPEST         1264     1527      1714     515      2e33      2031      2355     2560      2800
83
84      SUPPLUS BEFORE INTEREST                     -325     -346      -617        s9       -5       220       293       488      379
85      INTEREST                                       S        6         5        3A       33        42        51        61       71
86
87      SURPLUS AFTER INTEREST                      -331     -352      -622        39      -38       178       242       339      308
S8      OPERATING RATIO                          134 62   129. 34   156.24    95. 66  18. 23    98. 21    88. 94    86. 49    8S. 07
89



90          B        C         D        E         F        G         H        I         J        K         L         M        N
91      6-9-82   CONSOLIDATED
92                                                     MALI FIRST POWER/WATER PROJECT - ENERGIE DU MALI                   ANNEX 6. 3
9-3.                                                      CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS-POWER/WRTER
94                                                                 (MILLION MALIANN FRRNCS)
95
9S                                                 1979     19980    1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986     1987
97                                                ----               ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---                --      _--
98      REVENUE
99      -------
100     TOTAL SALES                                4993     7511      6256     80s59     9303    10221    11736    13638    i6525
101     TOTAL IRS                                   305      348       293      373       413      453       514       567      611
102     RECHARGEABLE WORKS                          354      428       585      435       563      673       819       966     1119
103     METER RENTAL                                212      268       320      381       491      582       665       704      80i
104     EXP. TRANS. TO CAPITAL ACCOUNT               32       66        48       60        79        95      i16       137      158
105     MISCELLANEOUS                                 7        8         0       14        14        14       15        15       15
106                                               -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----
107     TOTAL REVENUES                             5903     8629      7502     9322    10863    12038    13865    16027    19229
108
109     EXPEND I TLIRES                                                                                                                  U
110     ------------
Ill     ENERGY BOUGHT FROM SELINGUE                   0     Les8      1197     2296      2560     2960      3400      3880     5560
112     FUEL AND OTHER CONSUMPTION                 2183     2988      1879     1108      1474     1746      2070      2268     2813
113     CHEMICALS AND OTHERS                        272      314       312      316       320      352       387       426      469
114     PERSONNEL                                   805      925      1032     1277      1537     1732      1939      2152     2390
115     TAXES                                       231      295       255      235       285      342       412       485      565
116     IRS ON WATER                                305      3.58      317      37        413      453       514       566      611
117     EXTERNAL SERVICES 8 SUPPLIES                702      883       924      915      1061     1167      1284      1412     1553
118     TRANSPORT                                   264      304        BS       92       230      253       278       306      337
119     DEPRECIRTION AND RENEWAL                   1445     1490      1896     1772      2189     1699      2199      2573     2867
120                                               ---                                   -----    -----    -----    -----    -
121     TOTAL EXPENDITURES BEFORE INTEREST         6207     8645      7898     8384    10069    10704    12483    14069    17165
122
123     SURPLUS BEFORE INTEREST                    -304      -15      -396      938       794     1334      1382      1959     2064
124     INTEREST                                    117      224       122      155       378      726      1121      1538     1684
125
126     SURPLUS AFTER INTEREST                     -421     -239      -518      783       416      608       261       421      380
127     INCOME TAX                                   59       86        75      392       208      304       130       210      190
128
129     NET SUPPLUS BEFORE APPROPRIATION           -480     -325      -593      392       208      304       130       210      190
130     OPERATING RRTIO                          105. 16   100. 17   105.28    89. 94    92. 69    88.92    9004    87. 78    89. 26
131



132
133         B        1                  F        F         1        H         I        T        VI        L        M         N
12:4    6-9-82   BAL-ANC:E SHEET
1-5                                                    MRL T FTPST POWEP.R-WATEP PRO.JEC-:T - ENEPGIE DU MALI            ANNEX  6 4
t.S -                                                                 BALANCE SHEFT,
IMIL-L-ION MALTflN FRANC:S +
1--4                                            1979      1,980    1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987
141    FP EIl IC DOMATN THIRD PARTY FIN ASSFTS
14      TOTAL GROSS ASSETS                       14300    14473'    19375    16157    19803    26641   -32718    33211    35s89
144
145    EDM-F I NANCED F I IED ASSETS
146
147     DEFERRED CHRRGES                           75       275      275     1837      2777     4705      63 60    7855      7872
148     PRIVATE DOMRIN FI;ED ASSETS              2499    37074      3194     3388      4-l2     6758    18219    13399    17194
149     PIUBL-IC DOMAIN - SOTUBA                  4452      4452     4452     4452      4452     4452      4452     4452      4452
150     PUBLIC DOMAIN - OTHEP                     5890     6664      7237     7237      7237     7237      7237     7237      7237
*151
152          SIJBTOTAL FIXED ASSETS              12915    14425    1511.    16114    18778    2'3152    28268    32943    36755
153
154     ANNUAL DEPRECIATION & RENEWAL             1445      1490     1896     1772      2189     1699      2199     2573      2867
155     CLUMIILATIVE DEPRECIATION S PENEWAL       4500      5990     7886     96s58    11847    13546    15745    18318    21185
1.56                                              --- ----     -----     -----         --__ _---    -----    -----    -----   -_---
157          SUBTOTAL ASSETS                      8415      8436     7273     6457      6932     9687    12524    14626    15571
158
15.9    WORRk IN PROGRESS                          736       574      168        34      890     1556      1785     1475       158
16     TOTAL NET EDM FINANCED FIXED) RSSET0      9151      9010     7437     6491      7822    11163    14229   l16f1    15729
16S     STCIC:H                                    861      1166      765       779      947     1139      1364     1612      192
164     CiCOUlNTS PFCEIVABLE                      4076      4000     2398     2749      2698     2982      3330     3685      4858
6-95,    OTHEp BALAtiCES                           149       160      190       200      220       258      288       318      350
1SS     CASH AND BANK                             -220       494     2782     3324      4830     5726      6503     9178      8418
16F7                                              ---      ---- ----                            -----     -------- --- ---   ---
1S8        SUBTOTRL                               4866    5820       6125      7052     8695   81097    1477    14785    14739
17A     TOTRL EDlM FINANCED ASSETS               14017    14830    13558    13543    165-17    21268    25786    38886    30468
171
172     P lL IC DOMAIRN THIRPD:l PARTY F I NANC I NG
1 7    _        - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1 4     TOTAL THIRD PARTY FINANC ING             14300    1443:0    15375    16157    19803    26641    32718   -33211    35589
17'
17S    EC)M LIABILITTES 9NE41 E71-UITY
177     -----------------------
1.-8    SHARE CAPITTAL                             108       100      100      100       100      108       188      108       100
179     EARNED SIIRPLIUS 8 GENERAL RESERVES        S54       147      2S6      266       266      266       266      266       266
180     GOVT NtET INVESTMENT CONTPIBUTION          471       449      42-      428       428      428       428      428       428
10.1    RENEWAL PPnVISION                         ss0e     ss05               6505 6s505         65e5      6585     6505      6585
1R2                                               - - -    - - -    - - -     - - -    - - -     -  --    -  --    ---    -   - ---
187-       SU'BTnTAL                              77-fe    7201      7299     7299      7299     7299      7299     7299      7299
184                                                                                       1
185     lONG-TERM DEBT                            c.04      470e     4 14     4-f27     694-    10569    14192   -18400    18258
18S      JdCONSUiMER [iEFGS.TS                     461                           8 474  54S  722  22f       955     109s      _263
187     ACCOUNTS PAYARLIE                         12.8      16tSf    1521     1065      1266     1549      1865     2018      2322
188     OTHER DEBT                                1529       9S3      71       541       358      391       430      466      5se
189     CLIPRENT MATURITY 8S SHOPT-TERM DEBT       97e  .         S    8,      717       754     1144      135 7    1787       825
19e                                              -----    -----    -----    ----- _0---    _---- -- -- -- -- -- --  --        -
1.91      V'RIFTI-ITRI -.HOFRT-TEPM DBFFT         4 19         I    - 47A     2951      3100     3914      4607     5369      4910
192
1.93    NET  IUPPLAIS BEFfOPF APPROPPTITTION      -480      -"25     -59:      ?2        208      304       130      210       190
194     CUI1.MUILATVIE SRPI IS Plll--DtFFI I-TT   -507      -S32    -1425    -Ie-<14    -826     -522      -392     -181         9
19L                                                ---    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----
196     TOTAL FDM LI1BTL TTIES ANr  EOI-ITTY    14017    14s3e  1f558    13543    16516    21260    25706    30887    38468
197     DEFT/EII-1ITY PRTI O                      0 26    el 42      0 42     0 41      0 52     0 61      8 67     0 72      8 71
198     CURRENT PRTIO                             1    1t   t 95     1 77     2 39      2 88     2 58      2 49     2 75      3.00



199
288         B         C        D         E        F         G        H         I        J         K         L
201     6-9-82   FUNDS STATEMENT   MALI FIRST POWER/WATER PROJECT - ENERGIE DU MALI                                        ANNEX 6. 5
202                                          SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FLINDS                                               AS % OF
283                                               (MILLION MALIAN FRANCS)                                                  TOTAL NET
284     SOULRCE5                                   1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987   1982-7   US$ M   SOURCES
205     -------                                   -----   ------    -----    -----    -----    -----   ------   ------ -----
286     NET SURPLUS BEFORE I NTEREST                938       794     1334      1382     1959      2064      8471    16. 94       20
207     RENEWAL & DEPRECIATION                     1772      2189     1699      2199     2573      2867    13299    26. 60        32
288                        SUBTOTAL                2710      2983     3033      3581     4532      4931    21770    43. 54
209     PLUS:
210     CONSUMER DEPOS IT                            82        94      108       125       143      165       717      1. 43       2
211     INCREASE IN ACCTS PAYABLE                  -456       202      283       315      154       304       881     1. 60        2
212     INCREASE IN OTHER DEBTS                    -176      -183       33        39        3.6      34      -217    -0. 43       -1
213
214         SLIBTOTAL                              -558       113      424       479      732       503      1301     2. 60        3
215     LESS:
216     INCOME TAX                                  292       208      3e4       138      218       198      1434     2 87         3
217     INCREASE IN STOCKS                           14       168      192       225      248       388      1156     2. 31        3
218     INCREA5E IN C:ONSUMER ACCOLINT              351       -52      285       348      355       364      1652     3.3o         4
219     INCREA5E IN OTHER BALANCES                   20        28       30        38       38        48       178     8. 34        0
220     INCREA5E IN CASH AND BANK                   442      1286      596       477      625       565      3991     7. 98       18
221
222         SUBTOTAL                               1219      1630     1407      1210     1469      1468      8483    16. 81       20
223
224         SUBTOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE                941      1465     2858      2850     3395      3966    14668    29. 34        35
225     INTEREsT                                    155       378      726      1121     1538      1684      5682    11. 20       13
226     REPAymENT                                   686       717      754      1144     1357      1787      6445    12. 89       15
228         SUBTOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   841     1095      1488      2265     2895      3471    12047    24. 09        29
229
23eo    FUNDS AVAILABLE FROMI OPERATIONS            t80       370      578       585      588       495      2621     5. 24        6
2-3.2    E:XISTING LOANS:
233     CONSUMERS CAPITAL  CONTRIBUTION              70        75       75        75       75        75       445     e. 891
234     DIRECT WATER GOV'T CONTRIBUTLION            712     3571      6763      6802      418      2383    19769    39. 54        47
235     IDA CREDIT                                  700     2345      2610      2540     3808         8    11995    23. 99        29
236     OTHER COFINANCIERS                          138     1825      2160      2440     2195       675      8625    17. 25       21
237     OTHER ALREADY PLANNED LOANS                   8         8        0         0        0 e                 0     8. 00        8
238     NEW OTHER LOANS TO PLAN                       8         0        8         0        8         8         0     0. 08        0
239                                                                                               -----   _-----   _------------
248         TOTAL CONTR I BUT I ON CRED I T&LOANS  1612     7816    11608    11857       6488      3853    40834    81. 67        98
241                 SUIBTOTAL                      1712     7386    12178    11642       6988      3548    43455    86. 91       104
242            LESS INCREASE IN CASH                100      220       300       380     2058    -1325       1645     3. 29        4
243     TOTRL NET SOURCES                          1612     7166    11878    11342       4938      4873    41810    83.S2 2.
244     NET APPLICRTIONS
245     ---------------
246     CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - EDM                  83.     3528      5040     5265      4445      2495    21595    43. 19        52
247     CAPITAL EXP. THIRD PARTY FINANNCED          782     3646      6838     6077       493      2378    20214    40. 43        48
248
249     TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                 1612     7166    11878    11342       4938      4873    41889    83. 62       80o
2se     SELF-FINANCING RATIO ( ')                    12       11        11        11       11        20        12
251     DEBT SERVICE COVERACiE                     3.22     2.72      2. s5    1.58      1.57      1.42     1. 81
252
2 5 



-61-
ANNEX 6.6
page 1 of 2
MALI
First Power/Water Project
Assumptions for Financial Pro,jections
A. Income Statements (power and water)
Total power sales, including low voltage sales and high voltage sales
are unaudited actuals for FY80 and 1981; EDM estimate for 1982 and are projected
to grow at an average annual rate of 10% over the period FYs 83-87, as detailed
in annexes 2.1, 2.2 and 6.1. Water sales grow over the period FYs, 80-87, as
detailed in annex 6.2. Tariff increases assumed are as forecast in the main report.
IAS produces a constant average revenue of MF 1.85 for power and MF 18.5 for water.
Rechargeable works and expenses transferred to capital account are projected as a
function of the growth of sales.
With regards to expenditures, cost to EDM for Energy from Selingue is
MF 34 per kWh until June 30, 1981 and MF 40 thereafter.  Fuel purchases are
computed on the forecast for thermal generation (annex 2.1 and 2.2).  Average
price for Fuel is based on actual unit price throug'h 1981 and increased at the
inflation rate of 10% per year in current terms. Unit fuel consumption for thermal
generation is 280 g per kWh. Oil and miscellaneous are based on unaudited actuals
through 1981. Chemicals are priced for FY 1980 at the average price of MF 23 per
cubic meter of water produced and are indexed on the inflation index.  Personnel
expenses are assumed to grow at 10% per year. Miscellaneous taxes' grow with sales
and inflation. External Services and supply gradually reach 4% of' total gross fixed
assets. Expenses for Transport increase along with personnel expenses. Renewals
Fund and Depreciation provisions for energy through 1984 are based, on forecasts
of expenditures on each class of fixed assets using the following rates:
Annual %
Deferred charges                                    2C0  %
Private Domain                                      10  %
Public Domain (amortization)
- Dams                                         1.9%
- Others                                      r3.3%
Public Domain (renewals)
- Dams                                         1.9%
- EDM financed assets                          3.6%
- Third parties fixed assets                   3.8%
Following the review of concession system, it is assumed that starting1984 the
combined depreciation and renewal amount will decrease to about 7.5% of gross
assets.



-62-
ANNEX 6.6
page 2 of 2
B. Cash Flow Statement and Balance Sheet
Customers receivables decrease to three months billing by FY 1983.
Level of cash as shown in balance sheet in later years is large because EDM's
investment beyond the proposed project appears to be presently small and
will have to be defined and will therefore increase. The power and the water
components of the IDA Credit are on lent to EDM by the Government at 9.6%
interest over a repayment period of 20 years including five years's grace. Other
new loans are assumed to bear 7% interest over a repayment period of 15 years
including a one year grace period. All water sector assets in the public
domain other than those financed by the IDA Credit are assumed to be financed
by the Government. Capital expenditures are indicated in Annex 6.5.



--   12  Io '\   lo            ]  Th,s mnap h,ss btetffnere- pepaedy thb
r O 1 ^ ~~-                             <                      - ,-:::
the orn,neo the reader-
240                                                                    it The de-edmntis used sod the                                                                             -
boucd-.r,es shwns this map
do -to -oply, .o the part ef the .
World Back andits affihates soy  . MATI.
judgmet on the lega status cft. ,
REPUBLIC OF MALI                                 I                              %N                            sr:        n            ' .    A F R I CA
WATER/POWER PROJECT                                                                                            /
ENERGIE DU MALIl                                                                                                                    A TL A TIC
EXISTING    PROJECT   PROPOSED
PROJECT AREAS                         ',.        SWAMP                                          A                                          /
20 ,/                                     DAMS                                              RIVERS                                                                               /2f
220 kV TRANSMISSION LINE         |               REGIONAL CAPITALS
150 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                        NATIONAL CAPITALS
*                               POWER PLANTS                    ,                 REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
|       -_  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I           ij 
JL. Faguibine            - 
0      D00    2DD      300     400     500                                      .Gao
KILOMETERS /
S   E  N  E G A Li                                                 K-'  / . ._ /
SENEGAL
t_ 3   <    t                           <                stoX5s z  J                        t-\   X~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N    I G  E R 
(o
G AIVANTA                                                                                                )       /
\z>  s, ,   of  S   t   _\.S<1        ll                             o i         g                g       41   l             olS
I2o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                                         GERIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12nj
G  E A               ~~/ ~/ B E N I N
RY C ~    ~       ~       ~        GHN                    ;TOGO'>                   (    4                     Qj






20 MALI                              \\s                                           
240             WATER / POWER PROJECT    !A240LI
URBAN WATER SUPPLY SITUATION                                                                                             2 40
[__- Under EDM management                                                                     A  L G E R I A                            AriA
EZZJ Under local government operation
. ,A  System extension foreseen under next
5 year period                           |
g      =    ~~~Riversi
aFlooded  reas                            j_*_ _
i*    National capital                          j                                                                               40. 
Internotional boundaries .
- 200                                                                                                                                     .L                               0
o      100    200    300    400    500               i
KILOMETERS                             |
This nap has been prepaned by the World Bank's staff efclusivelY for the convoeene
of the needers of the report to eioshi  sin ottehed. The de.o-onlsons sced end the
bosoden.s sheen on tbistrep do sot Ieply. on the p0nt of the World Bank and its
affiliates, any jdgment on the legal status of any territory or any eodos..tnt or
cceptance of suh bonodetie
-i60   <          ~M  A U R I T A N  I A                            ?1                                           dao                                                 6
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~er
N  I G  E  R
>         ~~~Ye imane                                    rr-              
S E N EGAL                 s                              evare
,~~~~MBIA ~~BofoulbeIDn                                                              r~
GAMlBIA                                                        Mark c t ia                                                                                           N \S  *
tahinoaKt                   i(f         ~      ~      a
Ika Vi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GUINEA  Kenieb'~~~~~~~~ ~~   3                Kout~~~~ao ~Tominiar                                                                 /
IN ,* A                                   Bamako_ 
*8ISSAI    u-m_akno\    md  7                                                                     UPPER  VOLTA                                        > NIGERIA
)_*    ga , bat     j
Niger                                                                                               BENIN
ASOERRALEONE 8LEVC\RY   COAS.                                                                                                             4
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---_                                                                                        -           4    - 



