FOR IMMEDIATE 1tKE,
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.* Telephone: (202) 477-1234
IDA NEWS RELEASE NO. 83/5                          Contact: Pushpa Schwartz
July 8, 1982                                                 (202) 477-5306
MALI TO RECEIVE IDA CREDIT FOR POWER AND WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION
The Bamako area of Mali will have a more reliable power and water supply as a
result of the technical assistance and expansion of facilities to be provided to
Energie du Mali by the International Development Association (IDA).
An SDR 20.4 million ($24 million) credit from the World Bank's affiliate for
concessionary lending will help finance the efforts of the Malian public utility to
improve its managerial and technical capability and to provide an expanded and
reliable service to consumers, primarily in urban areas.
A large part of the $43.2 million project will be for technical assistance. A
team of managers and technical experts will be provided to Energie du Mali to advise
the organization's management and take part in the utility's operation. They will
also provide on-the-job training for Malian staff. Other consultants will carry out
studies of the power and water supply systems for the medium and the long term and
provide engineering services.
Power expansion includes the construction of a 2 megawatt biomass power plant
at Mopti/Sevare and rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant in Bamako. The power
network will also be extended to 10 new sections of Bamako, accommodating about 5,000
potential customers.
A novel feature of the project's power component is the biomass power scheme
which will use low-heat value gas and gas oil produced from burning rice husks. This
relative-y new technology will mean decreased costs, as the only alternative would
have been a diesel-based power plant. A study is underway to resolve problems that
may be caused by the quality of rice husks used.
The installation of a water distribution network and pumping equipment will
relieve the major bottlenecks in production facilities in Bamako. About 60,000
people will gain access to safer and less expensive water, and about 150,000 current
customers will benefit from the improved water service.
The IDA '-redit is for 50 years, including 10 years of grace. It carries no
interest but bears an annual commitment charge of 0.5% on the undisbursed balances of
the credit and a service charge of 0.75% on the disbursed balances.
The OPEC Fund will finance the $6.4 million biomass power scheme.
Co-financing from the two French aid agencies, joint owners of Energie du Mali
together with the Malian government, represents about 50% of the technical assistance
component and the rehabilitation of the Dar Salam power plant: Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique is providing a $6 million credit, while the Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation is contributing a grant of $4.8 million. The credit will be committed when
funds are available.
NOTE: IDA credits are denominated in SDRs (Special Drawing Rights), which are
valued on the basis of a "basket" of currencies. The U.S. dollar equivalent
of the SDR amount of the IDA credidt reflects the exchange rates existing at
the time of negotiation of the credit.


