Do=2At 4f
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                        Repdort o  10163
Report No. 10163-IND Type: (PCR)
NAWAZ, T   / X31680  / T9032/ OEDDi
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESIATE AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
(LOAN 2007-IND)
DECEMBER 13, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and maY be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World fBank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency: Rupiah
Rates of Exchange:
Appraisal Year                              US$1.00 = Rp.  625
Nov. 16, 1978  - Mar. 30, 1983              US$1.00   Rp.  625-900
Mar. 31, 1983  - Sept. 11, 1986             US$1.00 = Rp.  909-1100
Sept. 12, 1986 - Present                   US$1.00 = Rp. 1640-19OC
FISCAL 'EAR OF THE BORROWER
GOI: April 1 - March 31
PTP: January 1 - December 1
ABBREVIATIONS
BPKP               -           Government Auditing Agency
BPN               -            Government Land Agency
BRI                -           Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGE                -           Directorate General of Estates
ERR                -           Economic Rate of Return
FFB                -           Fresh Fruit Bunches
FRR                -           Financial Rate of Return
GOI                -           Government of Indonesia
LPP                -           Estates Training Institute
NES                -           Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project
PCC                -           Provincial Coordinating Committee
PTP                -           Public Sector Estate Company
SAR               -            Staff Appraisal Report
Team Khusus       -            Special Team in DGE for Nucleus Estate and
Smallholders Projects



FOR OMCILu  USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A
Off,e of Dtrectn-CGe"eral
Opeiatmon Evakuttugn
December 13, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Nucleus Estate
and Smallholders V Prolect (Loan 2007-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V Project (Loan
2007-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance
of their offcial dities. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEfUS ESTATE AND SHALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
(LOAN 2007-INM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface      .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .   .  .   i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
I.    PROJECT RSVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Background   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    1
Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Results    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    5
Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Borrower Performance  .........  ..  ...  ..   . 12
Project Relationships . . . .                              12
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . .                  13
Conclusions and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Bank Performance  .............  .....                      . 15
Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Borrower and Bank Relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Lessons Learned .................  ..  . 18
III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table  1: Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Table  2: Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table  3: Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Table  4: Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table  5: Project Costs and Financing
A: Project Costs ..............   26
B: Project Finan.ing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Table  6: Economic and Financial Analysis . . . . . . . 27
Table  7: Status of Loan Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . 28
Table  8S  Use of Bank Resources
A: Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
B: Missions.. ............. 29
C:   Costs   .   .   .   .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .   .    .   .   .    .    .   .   .    .  29
Table  9: Tree Crop Yield Estimates
Rubber and Coconut -  . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Table 10: Tree Crop Yield Estimates - Oil Palm
Ngbang  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  31
Table 11: Tree Crop Yield Estimates - Oil Palm
South Banten  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
IBRD No. 15633
IBRD No. 15634
IBRD No. 15635
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfori nce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authox,zation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESTA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SHALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
(LOAN 2007-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Nucleus Estate
and Smallholders V (NES V) Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2007-IND in
the amount of US$161.0 millior, was approved on May 28, 1981. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1990, 2-1/2 years behind schedule. Due tc the scaling
down of original project targets, together with loan savings from
devaluations, only 582 of the Bank loan amount was utilized, US$58.1 million
was canceled during the project implementation period and the undisbursed
balance of US$8.8 million was canceled upon closing of the Loan Account on
June 7, 1991.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Asia Region staff in the
Agriculture Division of the Technical Department and Country Department V
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the findings of a mission
which visited Indonesia in March 1991, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank the Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
(LOAN 2007-IND)
EVz-LUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V Projects (NES V) was the
fifth of a series of Bank-financed projects supporting the Government of
Indonesia's (GOI's) Nucleus Estate and Smallholders tree crop development
programs. The Project's main objectives were to: (a) resettle 19,800 families
in West Java and West Kalimantan Provinces and to improve their livelihood
through tree crops and food crop development; (b) promote non-oil exports
through the establishment of 26,500 ha of oil palm, 8,700 ha of rubber and
10,400 ha of coconuts for smallholders and estates; (c) promote institutional
development in the estates sector through techaical assistance and upgrading
of the Estates Training Institute (LPP). Four public sector estate companies
(PTPs) were to implement the tree crop components of the Project, which was
launched at a time when the Government of Indonesia (GOI) and the Bank
considered that the initial NES projects had demonstrated that use of public
sector estate companies (PTPs) was a successful and replicable model. At the
time, with ample oil revenues, GOI was keen to move ahead vigorously, with
programs in various sectors to ensure the oil windfall benefitted poorer
people in all regions of the country. As part of this policy, the Government
would shortly commence a parallel NES program wholly financed domestically.
Implementation Experience
2.          In retrospect, the Project appears to have suffered from some
setbacks due to its design, and the rapid expansion of the Bank-assisted and
wholly Indonesian-financed tree crop development programs. As improvements to
the earlier organizational arrangements had only just been made, NES V was in
a sense based on a design still to be proven, although this was not recognized
as a risk at the time. A complicated land ownership problem in West Java was
adequately described in the appraisal report, and considered to have been
resolved by formal alienation of the project land by the Governor. However
land disputes continued throughout the project life, causing delays and
fragmentation of sites. Although participants were consulted during project
preparation, in the event the NES settlement model proved not to be attractive
to many of the West Java participants. The very substantial expansion,
without new equity, of the PTPs, especially PTP XI, to be financed wholly from
loans and retained earnings, proved to be an undue risk which led to severe
liquidity problems.
3.          With these problems and management difficulties, the smallholder
planting targets were scaled back from 32,400 ha to 18,280 ha, and the number
of smallholder families reduced from 19,800, with approximately 10,000
effective beneficiaries (that is, those on rubber and oil palm plots) to about



- iv -
15,000 at Project Closing. Roads and track requirements had to be increased.
Nucleus estate planting targets (13,200 ha) were achieved and at Closing NES
plantings had reached 13,546 ha. With reductions in project targets and
devaluations, the loan size was reduced from US$161.0 million to US$102.9
million. To permit completion, the original Loan Closing date of June 30,
1988 was extended to December 31, 1990.
Results
4.          The quality of rubber and oil palm is in general satisfactory, and
yields are expected to be 90% and 78Z respectively, of appraisal estimates.
However, much of the coconuts, which represent 31? of the smallholder
component and 5? of the nucleus component, are of poor quality. Coupled with
the fact that Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) yield assumptions for hybrid
coconuts, a new crop for Indonesia, have proven to be over-optimistic, it is
now estimated that coconut yields for smallholders will only be some 30Z of
appraisal forecasts. Contributing factors include acceptance of marginal
'ands into the Project in view of land shortages in West Java, a total lack of
prior experience in hybrid coconuts (a new crop) by PTPs XI and XIII, and low
copra prices. Although some remedial actions might improve the situation, at
this time the coconut components are considered to have failed. The
Government is currently reviewing the experience. The Project's rubber and
oil palm components have benefitted about 10,000 poor smallholder families and
generate about 6,000 new jobs (equally for men and women) on the nucleus
estates aud smallholdings. The economic rate of return for the Project as a
whole, including coconuts, is estimated at 11? compared to the appraisal
estimate of 16Z. The financial rate of return for the Project as a whole is
estimated at 14? (financial rates of return were not estimated at appraisal).
The LPP expanded its support to tree crops, ard technical assistance to DGE
played a useful role.
Sustainabilit
5.          No particular environmental issues arise.  The projections of
future benefits from rubber and oil palm have assumed that maintenance by
smallholders, especially fertilizer usage, will continue at less than optimal
levels. The projections have also allowed for yield reductions from
substandard plantings. With these assumptions, project rubber and oil palm
benefits as projected are considered sustainable, but they could be enhanced
by further GOI support. Better and adequately maintained roads would increase
the value of farm output. Mature phase extension services could assist
farmers, individually or collectively, to follow good maintenance and
harvesting procedures and produce better quality output. The situation
concerning coconuts at the West Java sites should be reviewed promptly to
determine whether remedial measures are still possible and warranted. In
order to ensure that the benefits of past investments are realized, the
Government is considering a project which would deal with the mature phase
needs of all NES projects for possible assistance by the Bank.



-v-
Findinas and Lessons
6.          Despite the substantive implementation difficulties, the Project
demonstrates the robustness of rubber and oil palm investments it. Indonesia
and the case for accepting risks in development for projects. Following are
key lessons learned in this and earlier NES projects: (a) risks involved in
rapidly expanding a program should, moving into marginal areas and introducing
new crops, be more thoroughly discussed in appraisal reports in order to focus
attention on ris'- management; (b) land for development should be secured at
the outset not just in legal terms, but in a sufficiently in-depth process
involving the target participants and seeking their views on project design;
(c) if a design involving multiple agencies cannot be avoided, a strong
central unit with clearly defined responsibilities, authority and financing is
needed; (d) contingency funds to respond to defects, or pest or disease
attacks should be provided, and (e) multi-year budgeting is necessary in tree
crop projects.
7.          Finally, there is need to review the status of mature phase
management of smallholdings, as with restricted budgets, DGE has only been
able, through Team Khusus, to provide limited leadershiip to smallholders to
help ensure the sustained development of the holdings. There is a high pay-
off to maintaining extension services in the mature phase, to help ensure that
the benefits of the sunk investments are achieved.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
(LCAN 2007-IND)
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Name         : Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V Project
Loan Number : 2007-IND
RVP Unit    : Asia
Country      : Indonesia
Sector      : Agriculture
Sub-sector  : Tree Crops
Background
1.01        The Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V (NES V) Project was the
fifth in a series of Bank-financed projects undertaken to support the
Government of Indonesia's (GOI's) strategy to reduce poverty in the rural
areas through the development of tree crops (rubber, coconut and oil palm) to
provide poor farmers with improved and sustainable incomes. The Project made
use of the technical and management expertise of the government-owned estate
companies (PTPs) to plant blocks of tree crops and maintain them up to
maturity for sub-division to participating farmers. The PTPs also provided
processing and marketing services and developed villages and social facilities
for the intended settlers.
1.02        The NES V Project was initiated at the request of the Government
to support its objectives in the agricultural sector to: (a) create
productive employment to raise the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase
domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural
exports, particularly of smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive
and sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.
As with the preceding Bank-assisted NES projects, the NES V project focused on
the development of tree crops on a sustainable and large enough scale to
create a positive impact on employment opportunities, poverty alleviation and
development of non-oil exports.
Obiectives and Description
1.03        In line with the Government's agricultural sector objectives, the
Project's main objectives were to: (a) resettle some 19,800 local families in
West Java and West Kalimantan, with the intention of improving their
livelihoods through tree crops, food crops and home garden development;
(b) undertake estate development in Bengkulu which would permit smallholder



- 2 -
participation in subsequent projects; (c) increase domestic production of
rubber, oil palm and coconuts, with a view to export expansion/import
substitution; and (d) promote institutional development in the estate sector
through staff training and technical assistance. ,he Project would be located
in three provinces encompassing seven sites with a total gross area of about
79,000 ha: West Java (5 sites with about 42,500 ha); West Kalimantan (1 site
of 30,000 ha); and Bengkulu (1 site of 6,300 ha). The Project would have the
following major components:
(a)   Smallholder Development:  Planting of 3,700 ha of rubber, 6,700 ha
of coconuts, and 8,000 ha of oil palm in West Java bv PTP XI;
3,000 ha of coconuts in West Java by PTP XIII; and 11,000 ha of
oil palm in West Kalimantan by PTP VII, together with the
development of food crops, house gardens, roads, housing, and
village infrastructure for 19,800 families;
(b)   Nucleus Estate Development:  (a) establishment of 4,000 ha oil
palm and a 180 ha seed garden for coconuts by PTF XI (West Java),
700 ha coconut area by PTP XIII (West Java), and 3,500 ha oil palm
area by PTP VII (West Kalimantan); and 5,000 ha rubber by PTP
XXIII (Bengkulu) to serve as a nucleus for future projects; and
(b) related infrastructure including estate housing, buildings,
roads, and processing facilities;
(c)    Technical Assistance and Program Sup2ort:  (i) consultants'
services tc assist the various estates; (ii) consultants'
services and training for a special team in the Directorate
General of Estates for Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Projects
(Team Khusus) to ?trengthen its capacity to implement th3s and
future projects, and identify/prepare future projects;
(iii) expansion of the Estates Training Institute (LPP) at
Yogyakarta in Java; the establislment of an LPP campus at Medan in
North Sumatra, and LPP sub-centers at various PTP offices in Java
and Slmatra to train field staff; and (iv) provision for start-up
activities for fature Bank-assisted NES projects.
Design and Organization
1.04        Project design followed the concept of the preceding four NES
projects, and continued the organizational arrangements as modified under NES
III and NES IV. Smallholder beneficiaries were to be settled from the
province concerned, rather than other provinces as was the case under earlier
projects, although the reason for this narrower focus was not st8ted. The
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) mentioned the existence of 500 indigenous (Dayak)
families in the West Kalimantan area, who had given up land to the Project and
were to be eligible as project participants. The project documents did not
discuss in any detail the beneficiary target group or environmental matters.
1.05        The Project relied upon the technical and managerial resources of
PTPs to establish tree crops, food crops and physical infrastructure for the
settlement of smallholders around the PTPs' own nucleus estates. PTPs YI and
XIII would undertake smallholder developirent at five sites in West Java



described as abandoned forestry reserve land in the final project brief, and
PTP VII at one site described as government land in West Kalimantan. PTP
XXIII was to focus only on nucleus estate development at Seluma in Bengkulu
Province. At maturity of plantings, smallholder families in West Java were
each to receive 1.5 ha tree crops while those in West Kalimantan would receive
2 ha. In addition each family in West Java would be allocated 0.5 ha for a
house, garden and food crops, and in West Kalimantan 1.0 ha for these
purposes. The PTPs would employ, on the project site until maturity of
smallholder plantings, one member from each household selected to participate
in the Project.   Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) would administer, as
"chaninelling agent", the credit that Government would provide to the
smallholders, and would be responsible for the collection of smnallholder loan
repayments on behalf of the Government.
1.06        The provincial authorities of West Java and West Kalimantan were
expected to provide health, education, social and food crops extension
services to the smallholders, including the construction of health and
eduL_-.:on facilities through the Government's public works programs.  In each
province, a Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC), whose members were to
include the Bupati (district head), the head of the local tree crop extension
service, the project manager (that is, the President Director of the concerned
PTP), the site managers, the provincial head of BRI, and representatives of
other relevant provincial agencies, would coordinate activities and assist in
settler selection.
1.07        The staff appraisal report, and more particularly the final
project brief for the Project, reflect the view that the initial NES prcjects
starting in 1977 had sufficiently demonstrated that the use of the PTPs for
smallholder development, in an environment of scarce technical and managerial
skills was a successful and replicable model for the tree crop sector. It was
noted in the final project brief that the Government was seeking to rapidly
expand the number of PTPs undertaking smallholder tree crops. At the time oil
prices were high, and the Government was keen to expeditiously implement
programs in several areas, including irrigation and credit, to ensure that the
benefits of high oil revenues reached poorer segments of the population in all
regions of the country. Shortly after NES V, the Government commenced a
parallel NES program, wholly financed domestically, which placed additional
demands upon the PTPs. The SAR noted that the Project would assist the DGE to
considerably expand its future NES operations, and assume larger responsibi-
lities in identifying, formulating, preparing, appraising and supervising
future projects.   The first three NES projects were seen to be sufficiently
advanced to assess their effectiveness. For these projects, plantings were
reported to be on schedule and field development was good, but the
construction of smailholder infrastructure was less satisfactory and the
movement of smallholders to the project areas was behind schedule, causing
labor shortages for construction and maintenance. NES III and NES IV had
initiated changes in design and organization, giving nucleus estates greater
autonomy, establishing Team Khusus to coordinate and oversee implementing, and
funding key start-up activities.   The main risks discussed were that in
previous projects there was too great a diffusion of management
responsibility, seen to be corrected, and that smallholders might not sell
their production to the nucleus estates.



1.08        In retrospect, the Project appears to have suffered some setbacks
due to its design, and the rapid expansion of the Bank-assisted and wholly
Indonesian-financed tree crop development programs. In theory the design of
NES V was based on experience gained from prior NES projects. To cope with
the multiplicity of agencies involved in project execution, the project
managers (the concerned PTP President Directors) hal been given more
authority, and the supervision and monitoring capability of DGE had been
strengthened. However, it is questionable whether at the time of appraisal
these changes had been in place long enough to be considered well-tested. In
that sense, NES V was based on an unproven rather than proven design. The
diffusion of responsibility caused by the multiplicity of agencies continued
to plague the Project and indeed the NES program during implementation.   The
land ownership situation in West Java gave rise to difficulties which it had
been thought resolved during a post-appraisal mission, focussed on land
issues. The SAR made it clear that much of the land at the West Java sites
was government land under cultivation by farmers who had eicher received
permission for use from village chiefs, or were using the land without
permission. By post-appraisal, the Governor had alienated all the areas
proposed for development and the implication in the SAR was that the situation
was resolved. In any event, land disputes continued throughout project
implementation, causing delays and necessitating changes of project sites in
some cases to areas with poor access.   In retrospect too, it would appear
that despite the attention to land ownership problems during preparation, the
attitude of the authoritib_s at the time was that the program, centrally
conceived, was obviously in the interests of participants. The task was to
explain the Project and clear the way for its implementation, rather than
seeking participants' views on project design. The NES model - appropriate
for new settlement - was not modified to mreet the circumstances in West Java,
where many participants were already established in the project sites and did
not wish to be resettled, and have their agriculture directed to the extent
inherent in the NES project design. For example, at PTP XI's sites in West
Java, more than 700 families left their allotted homes to return to their
former villages. Some warning of these problems may have been available to
DGE at the time from experience with a component for local farmers in the NES
II Project.
Implementatioa
1.09        Because of difficulties with land acquisition in West Java, poor
management by PTP VII, and difficulties in recruiting settlers from within the
province in West Kalimantan, the smallholder planting targets were scaled back
from 32,400 ha to 28,280 ha, and associated settler recruitment and housing
targets were to cover 15,127 families rather than 19,800. It was necessary to
increase the targets for construction of roads and tracks, as requirements
were found to be much greater than anticipated at appraisal. Nucleus estate
planting targets (13,200 ha) were achieved, except at Seluma where targets
were reduced from 5,000 ha to 4,650 due to shortage of land. Implementation
was constrained by many factors, some project-specific, and some common to the
NES program as a whole (para. 1.22). These constraints adversely affected the
quality of tree crop establishment, and necessitated a 2-1/2 year delay in
Loan Closing.



- 5 -
1.10        As with all NES projects, this Project was designed to be
developed and managed as block-r,'anting units in which the PTPs were
experienced. This arrangement met with setbacks and disruptions during
project implementation, and much of the land previously demarcated sites for
the Project was either not acquired or was found to be tc.pographically
unsuitable. Project management was compelled to identify and locate new sites
further away from the nucleus estates. Particularly in West Java, where
shortages of suitable land were more acute, the tree crop development became
very fragmented as compared to the proposed compact design.
1.11        Pro ect Costs and Disbursements:  Utilization of the Bank Loan was
much lower than anticipated largely due to devaluations of the rupiah during
the implementation period, but also because the physical targets were scaled
down.  Out of the Bank loan of US$161.0 million, oi.ly US$94.1 million or 58Z
was disbursed. A total of US$58.1 million was canceled during loan
implementation.  The original clos:ing date was June 30, 1988; but the Loan was
closed only on December 31, 1990, after three extensions.   Disbursements
against commitments were made until June 7, 1991, and the outstanding final
balance of US$8.8 million was then canceled. Tables 3 and 5 in Part III
present details of loan disbursements and project costs. At appraisal, the
Bank was to finance the foreign exchange costs of the Project, estimated at
50Z; the actual results were that the Bank Loan coveved 522 of project costs.
1.12        Procurement:   The main implementation issue concerning
procurement centered around the construction of housing, roads and tracks, and
other infrastructure, contracts for which were to be awarded according to
local competitive bidding procedures or by force account, as these small and
scattered activities were unlikely to attract international bidders. Lucal
governments were keen for contractors from their provinces to participate in
the Project, but suitable contractors from the local area were not always
available, givir.g rise to delays during the qualification assessment. PTPs
did not always adequately supervise the quality of contractors' performance,
and some work, especially settler housing, was poorly executed.
Results
1.13        Smallholder Development:  The physical targets achieved as a
result of the Project are presented in Part III, Table 4.   The revised
physical objectives of the Project, other than food crop development, were
achieved but only after considerable delay, however much of the coconut
plantings and lesser areas of rubber are of substandard quality. In addition,
SAR hybrid coconut yield assumptions for NES V, and the Smallholder Coconut
Development Project (Loan 1898-IND) commenced shortly before have proven to be
substantially over-optimistic, being based on experience with hybrid coconuts
in other countries. In view of this, and uncertainty concerning the
smallholder future compliance with recommended fertilizer use, the PCR mission
has assumed that yields will be considerably lower than those forecast at
appraisal, as detailed in Part III, Tables 10,11 and 12. The PCR estimates
are that rubber, oil palm and coconut yields will be about 90?, 72?, and only
302 respectively of the appraisal estimates.   The problems of coconut
development are discussed in the following paragraph. For rubber and oil
palm, the Project has directly benefitted about 10,000 families (51? of the



- 6 -
appraisal targets) and has generated about 6,000 new jobs on the nucleus
estate and smallholdings. The number of project beneficiaries and employment
generation are lower than appraisal estimates as a result of the scaling down,
during implementation, of project targets due to land problems. About one-
half of the jobs created under the Project were or are currently held by
women.
1.14        Smallholder coconut development comprised  9,300 ha or 31Z of the
total smallholder plantings of rubber, oil palm and coconuts. Nucleus estate
coconuts account for 700 ha or 52 of the total nucleus estate plantings. The
recalculated coconut ERRs range from 0X at Cimerak to 62 at Bantar Jaya-Ciemas
and although some remedial actions might improve the returns, at this time the
coconut components are considered to have failed.   Contributing factors
include: (a) acceptance of difficult sites in West Java, where land
constraints dictated use of less than ideal sites - for example at Ciemas the
elevated, windy, and steep site proved unsuitable for cultivation; (b) the
land ownership problems and lack of analysis of participant interest, for
example at Cimerak; (c) a lack of prior experience in hybrid coconuts by PTPs
XI and XIII (a new crop to the PTPs altogether), which contributed to
inadequate management leading to poor establishment and inadequate fertilizing
and upkeep of the trees; and (d) low copra prices compounded by delays in
establishing processing facilities in the area, and the exclusion of private
traders. The failure of the hybrid coconuts appears to be project- rather
than crop-specific. The PCR for the Smallholder Coconut Development Project
(SCDP) (Report No. 8135) which was implemented at the same time as NES V, but
not through the NES approach, reported success in the introduction of hybrid
coconuts once farmers were convinced of the advantages over "tall" coconuts
and they had received training in the new technology. Palms already in fruit
had potential yields, allowing for the 182 substandard plantings, were
considered to be 2.77 t/ha, or 71% of the SAR estimate of 3.9 t/ha. The
revised ERR was 12.6Z. The draft Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for
SCDP has expressed concern as to whether yields would be sustained in the
absence of extension workers explaining the incremental benefits of continued
fertilizer usage. Withotit such advice the PPAR considers yields could
possibly drop to 2.3 tlha. The Government is currently reviewing the NES V
hybrid coconut performance.
1.15      The distribution of land for food crops was completed but issuance
of titles was delayed due to slow progress in surveying. Overall the
development of the food crops for additional income did not meet appraisal
expectations as soils were not suitable without continued fertilizer use.
PTPs were not technically competent to provide the agronomic services for
sustained food crop production, and there was a lack of credit facilities to
finance inputs.
1.16        Nucleus Estate Development:   The quality of nucleus estate oil
palm and rubber, but not coconuts (see above) established by the PTPs was
generally satisfactory, and appraisal physical targets were essentially met,
although with delays.   After considerable delays due to late planning,
institutional constraints and slow progress in tree crop establishment, the
construction of the palm oil mills was completed as planned to provide central
processing facilities for smallholder fresh fruit bunches (FFB) at Ngabang and



South Banten. Put farmers were confronted with transport difficulties
resulting from poorly constructed and badly maintained roads. The widely
scattered locations of holdings, particularly at South Banten, increased
transport costs and posed collection problems as good quality FFB could not be
delivered to the mills on a regular and timely basis. The rubber factory at
Sanghyang Damar was upgraded and its capacity increased to process the rubber
from the nearby holdings. PTP XI built copra mills at Bantar Jaya and Ciemas
as planned at appraisal. However the capacity of both mills was scaled down
in view of lower coconut yields than those anticipated at appraisal. At
Cimerak, PTP XIII initially installed only kilns to produce copra as coconut
production at this site was insufficient to justify construction of a mill for
oil production. In 1988, however, the Association of PTP XIII Employees
(Puskop PTP XIII) acquired and rehabilitated an old mill which currently
processes nucleus estate and smallholder coconut production.   The finances of
the PTPs, in particular PTP XI, were particularly strained during
implementation. The SAR presented summary PTP accounts as at December 31,
1979, and commented that the financial standing of the PTPs was good and would
substantially improve with the project investments, although cash flow
forecasts were not presented. PTP XI in particular suffered severe liquidity
problems during implementation. The PTP XI project investments were valued at
US$49.7 million, compared to the PTP's 1979 total assets of US$38.0 million
and profits after tax of US$4.6 million. The new development was to be
financed without fresh equity, but would rely entirely upon loans and profit
retention, which proved to be a risky financing plan.
1.17        Training and other Program Support:   The training component
sought to further upgrade the capacity of the LPP at Yogyakarta, which had
been supported under the NES I Project, and to establish a new campus at Medan
and four regional training centers. These objectives were substantially
achieved. A board of trustees was appointed for LPP in 1982, the Institute's
programs were rationalized, new well-qualified staff were hired, library and
information facilities were expanded and upgraded, a new campus was developed
and staffed at Medan, four Regional Training Centers (RTC) were built, and
teaching and support facilities constructed at Yogyakarta.
1.18    Although the LPP had a less than immediate impact on tree crop
training, resulting, in part, from turnover of Directors, by project Closing
Date some improvements could be noted. LPP's staff mix of younger, more
academically qualified people and experienced ex-PTP personnel had become
acceptable to the client group; the Institute had a mission statement -- to
assist the clients with the management of agro-technology -- which emphasized
the role of LPP as a management training institute rather than an institution
which duplicated the role of research; LPP staff had begun to provide more
consultancy (problem solving) services to the PTPs; and increasingly private
estates were requesting and paying for LPP assistance with their training and
staff development programs.
1.19        The remainder of the program support component provided for
consultancy serviLes to assist the DGE and PTPs implement the Project and the
DGE in its overall smallholder development program.   The program provided for
386 and 297 months of internationally and locally recruited consultant time
respectively but actual months utilized were 250 and 263.   At DGE, tree crop



8-
agronomists, financial experts and process engineers provided useful technical
support services in the field. Through the support program Team Khusus staff
also received training overseas in management and computer usage. The PTPs
received consultancy services for (a) financial management and training of
counterparts; and (b) design and supervision of processing facilities at
Ngabang, South Banten, and Bengkulu.
1.20        Economic and Financial Returns: The incomes of about lC,000 poor
families zeceiving rubber and oil palm holdings are estimated to increase
substantially due to the Project. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
Project as a whole is estimated at 11Z. The comparison between economic rates
of return estimated at appraisal and PCR estimates, and PCR financial rates of
return (FRR) estimates (none were estimated at appraisal) are presented in
Part III, Table 6. Re-estimated ERRs for the whole Project and all project
components are lower than appraisal estimates due to the decline in projected
world prices of rubber, oil palm and copra, delayed benefits resulting from
implementation delays and more importantly, lower yield expectations due to
substandard smallholder plantings. The ERRs for the Cimerak and Bantar Jaya-
Ciemas smallholder coconut components are re-estimated at 0% and 6%
respectively compared to 18X and 14% estimated at appraisal.   The FRR for the
whole Project (estimated at 14Z) and for individual components are also
presented in Part III, Table 6. The FRR for the two smallholder coconuts
components are estimated at 02 for Cimerak and at 7% for Bantar Jaya-Ciemas,
due to the pessimistic outlook on yield levels at these sites (para. 1.14).
Although PCR price and yield estimates for rubber and oil palm are also lower
tha.a those estimated at appraisal, FRRs for the other project components are
all 14Z or better.
1.21        Environment:   Little separate attention was paid at appraisal to
environmental concerns as distinct from the normal attention to agronomic
concerns which provided for anti-erosion and other sound environmental
procedures, and no specific implementation or monitoring measures were
discusseil. However, in general tree crop development by the Project had a
positive impact on the physical environment.   Prior to the Project, the
vegetation in the project areas was either degraded secondary bush or alang-
alang, a coarse grass which is particularly destructive to soil nutrients.
Planting these areas with productive trees replaced large areas of alang-alang
and reduced soil erosion in those areas which had been used for shifting
cultivation and had inadequate ground cover.   During supervision, particular
attention was given to ensuring proper treatment of factory effluent at
Ngabang, South Banten and Sanghyang Damar.
1.22        NES Program Implementation Problems:  The NES V implementation
experience has much in common with other Bank-assisted NES projects, as
discussed in the PCR for the NES VI Project (Report No. 9368). Summarizing
from that report, NES projects as a whole fell short of expectations in three
key areas:
(a)   Quality of Smallholder Plantings: The quality of much of the
smallholder rubber and coconut plantings established under NES V
and other NES projects was below expected standards. Substandard
plantings were a result of: (i) poor field establishment and



-9-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 9 -
maintenance arising from faulty management by the PTPs, inadequate
funding and delays in the release of funds for essential inputs
such as fertilizers and herbicides; (ii) inadequate monitoring of
the projects' implementation progress by Team Khusus and lack of
inspection services within DGE to visit project sites regularly
and provide objective feedback that would allow the Government to
take timely remedial steps.   Inspection services were established
in 1990. For NES V, in addition to the above factors, oil palm at
South Banten suffered extensive damage by wild animals.
(b)   Food Crop Development:   The development of food crops for
smallholders' subsistence and for supplementing smallholders'
incomes did not meet expectations due to: (i) the PTPs' lack of
prev±jus experience and knowledge of the technology required for
food crop production on a sustainable basis; (ii) lack of
effective extension service support and seasonal credit for
financing further inputs to supplement first year inputs provided
by the PTPs; and (iii) overly optimistic expectations about food
crop cropping on largely poor soils in the project areas.
(c)   Cost Recovery: The conversion of smallholder development
expenditures into smallholder loans (the first step in the
recovery of credit) is seriously behind schedule. As for all Bank-
assisted NES projects, it was stipulated that at the end of the
third year after planting, smallholder plantation and housing
expenditures by the PTPs would be converted into credit accounts
for which individual smallholders would then enter into loan
agreements with BRI. Few such accounts have in fact been
established. A committee comprising senior level staff from the
relevant Government agencies was established in 1988 to devise and
oversee the implementation of procedures for accelerating the
conversion process.  While conversion criteria and procedures have
been clarified and improved, the conversion process continues to
lag due to: (i) substandard plantings; and (ii) delays by the
Government Land Agency (BPN) in surveying smallholder plots and
issuing land certificates required as collateral for smallholder
loans, the Government Audit Agency (BPKP) in auditing smallholder
development expenditures to determine the amount of individual
smallholder debt, and BRI in finalizing credit arrangements
following inputs by BPN and BPKP. The Government continues to
keep the matter under review.
1.23        Apart from problems which were specific to individual project
sites and components, the main shortcomings in the implementation and results
of Bank-assisted NES projects can be attributed to five principal factors:
(a)   Inadequate Preparation.  A particular difficulty in the Project
has been the major complications associated with release of land
for project purposes. In a country where land ownership and usage
is in the main decided by traditional processes, the experience
indicates that the Government cannot simply rely upon its legal
powers to alienate land for project purposes. The time-consuming



- 10 -
processing of consultation with people in the area is also
important for more clearly establishing that projects are really
responsive to beneficiaries' needs, and are not simply imposed on
a top-down approach;
(b)   Poor Quality of Management.  The PTPs clearly have substantial
technical knowledge and capacity to establish quality trees,
maintain them properly and handle processing efficiently. Perhaps
the most outstanding constraint to the successful implementation
of NES projects has been the quality of management, particularly
in the PTPs. Management was either not able, due to overstretched
capacity, or was not sufficiently motivated or willing to
implement the projects to the standards contracted by them under
the Smallholder Development Agreements. In NES V, the PTPs'
performance in the execution of project civil works left much to
be desired. The quality of settler houses was often below tender
specifications, and roads of inferior construction were built (a
problem which is compounded by lack of regular maintenance). PTPs
XI and XIII did not have in-house civil engineers to plan and
supervise conistruction and were reluctant to recruit this
expertise when it was lacking even when funding was readily
available.
{c)   Inadequate Monitoring of Project Implementation:  To strengthen
the DGE's capacity to carry out its responsibility for overseeing
the execution of the Government's tree crop development program,
agreement had been reached at the NES II negotiations that:
(i) the Government would establish Team Khusus to assist DGE in
the planning, execution and monitoring of NES projects; and
(ii) DGE would employ consultants to provide inspection services
to visit projects regularly and to provide objective feedback that
would allow the Government to take timely remedial steps to
resolve major implementation problems. Although Team Khusus was
established as agreed, it was not provided with sufficient
resources to adequately carry out its responsibilities, in part
because Government finances later in the 1980s became severely
constrained as oil prices fell. Moreover inspection services
which would have supplemented Team Khusus' role were not
established. Establishment of the inspection services was
initiated only in 1990 -- too late to benefit the implementation
of past NES projects. In hindsight, it would have been desirable
to include in the Loan Agreements of past NES projects specific
covenants requiring establishment and financing of inspection
services and satisfactory staffing and financing of Team Khusus,
commensurate with its responsibilities.
(d)   Delayed approval and Release of Budget Funds:  Delays in the
approval and release of budgeted funds for smallholder development
seriously slowed implementation. Moreover the amounts when
released were normally significantly less than the amounts
requested by the implementing agencies. Delays also resulted from
the limits imposed by the Government on unit costs for settler



- 11 -
houses and roads being unrealistically low. The constraints on
unit costs were removed only in the 1988-89 budget, after
continued representations by DGE to the Ministry of Finance and
Bappenas. It is also only recently that the Government has changed
procedures for funding smallholder tree crop development projects
to allow timely approval of budgets and release of funds to
project agencies.
(e)   Lack of Mature Phase Extension: Smallholders have not received
adequate extension service support from the PTPs and other
Government agencies after tree crop maturity to ensure continued
viability of smallholdings, through attention to tree crop
maintenance, harvesting, crop transportation, processing,
marketing and credit recovery.
Sustainability
1.24        The projections of future benefits from rubber and oil palm have
assumed that maintenance by smallholders, especially fertilizer usage, will
continue at less than optimal levels. The projections have also allowed for
yield reductions from substandard plantings. With these assumptions, project
benefits as projected are considered sustainable, but they could be enhanced
by further Government support. Firstly, better and adequately maintained
roads would increase the value of farm output. Secondly, mature phase
extension services could assist farmers, individually or collectively, to
follow good maintenance and harvesting procedures. Thirdly, assistance might
be provided to farmers to assist them to produce better quality output.
Practical approaches include providing farmers with low-cost group processing
facilities such as those planned for rubber smallholder (Smallholder Rubber
Development Project II - Loan 2494-IND) and PTP XIII's copra drying method for
small group of farmers. Finally, the situation concerning coconuts at the
West Java sites should be reviewed promptly, to determine whether remedial
measures are still possible and warranted. In addition, Government has in
mind a project to deal with the mature phase needs of all NES projects, for
possible assistance by the Bank. This should be pursued urgently to ensure
that the benefits of the past investments are realized.
Bank Performance
1.25        In retrospect, it appears that the appraisal report could have
discussed more fully the risks inherent in the complex administrative
arrangements, including those for credit, land availability and suitability,
participants' interests, the yield projections particularly those for
coconuts, and the financial effects of the Project on the PTPs, particularly
PTP XI. Risk discussion in SARs generally tends to focus on risks which have
been countered and to gloss over or ignore risks accepted. In the case of NES
V, it can be argued that it was correct to proceed in spite of risks, for in
the event the Project has an acceptable rate of return and has benefitted many
small farmers. However, if Bank practice provided for a more frank discussion
of risks, more attention might be focussed during implementation on the
measures needed to manage them adequately. Supervision of such a large



- 12 -
project was greatly facilitated by it being handled from the resident mission.
Although substantial Bank staff resources were deployed in discussing with
Government possible measures for addressing implementation problems, the Bank
was not prepared to insist upon compliance with important covenants, such as
the requirement under the NES II Loan to create inspection services for tree
crops. In the later years of the Project, as the implementation problems of
the program as a whole were becoming apparent, the Bank followed a
comprehensive approach to their resolution, and linked the achievement of
progress on a prioritized list of problems, to key actions such as closing
date extensions, loan re-allocations, and consideration of further projects.
This supervision strategy was successful in keeping a focus on, and making
progress on the main implementation issues.
Borrower Performance
1.26         During project implementation, Government performance was weak in
some critical areas: (a) delays in approval and release of funds; (b) inade-
quate funding; (c) DGE's supervision input through Team Khusus was inadequate
due to staff and fund constraints; (d) the formation of an independent
inspection team to support DGE's activity was significantly delayed; and
(e) the cooperation and coordination between the project management staff, the
DGE, provincial governments and other line ministries was not sufficient to
achieve timely and efficient implementation. Recognizing these weaknesses,
the Government took actions to address these problems including granting DGE
clear authority over the tree crop development program, improvements in the
budgeting and financing procedures for tree crop projects, seeking consultant
inspection services, and establishing a special committee to expedite credit
recovery.   The Government's action plans were considered constructive and
secured further Bank participation with extensions of the Closing Date to
December 1990.
Pro]ect Relationships
1.27        A key difficulty in the early years of the Project was a differ-
ence in view between the Bank and the Government concerning the authority of
the DGE over the PTPs. The Ministry of Agriculture was reluctant to grant DGE
the degree of authority the Bank considered desirable for effective project
execution. The issue was far from theoretical as the Ministry was requiring
PTPs to greatly expand their participation in the Government's parallel (PIR-
Khusus and Lokol) programs. Otherwise the Bank, through its resident mission
staff, maintained good relationships with the PTPs, DGE-Team Khusus and all
other relevant Government agencies involved in project implementation. The
Bank's supervision interaction with Government focused on actions required to
resolve project specific problems and generic issues which impeded efficient
development of the tree crop subsector such as those concerning delayed
releases of approved budget funds, the inadequacy of major budget amounts, the
inadequacies of Team Khusus, the lack of inspection services, the need for
more effective conversion of smallholder credits, the introduction of agreed
credit recovery procedures and attention to auditing problems.
1.28        Tackling the underlying causes of delays in project implementation
successfully, required close coordination among DGE, the PTPs and the local



- 13 -
government agencies which were responsible for acquiring land for smallholder
development, village infrastructure and social services for the recruitment of
settlers. Overall, the concerned agencies, including the PCCs, which were
meant to work closely with the PTPs in project implementation, did not fully
function as a team as envisaged.
Project Documentation and Data
1.29        The Loan Agreement provided some safeguards for satisfactory
project implementation, but late compliance in funding, financial reporting,
auditing of project accounts, release of land for development, slow issuance
of land titles, slow establishment of smallholder credit accounts, and delayed
completion of processing facilities nevertheless occurred with negative
effects on implementation and were the subject of continued representation by
the Bank.
1.30        The SAR adequately described land issues, but the Government
alienation of land failed to resolve them, was optimistic in hybrid coconut
yield assumptions, did not discuss financial uncertainties arising from loan
financing of major investment programs by the PTPs, and superficial, in
keeping with general Bank practice, in its discussion of risks. It provided
guidelines for implementation through the immature phase but was short of
details for sustained mature phase development which was relevant to oil palm
and coconuts.
1.31        Data on the status of project activities reported throughout the
Project were initially recorded by several agencies without the benefit of
cross-checking for accuracy and consistency. As a result, the data compiled
by Team Khusus were often inconsistent with the data provided by the PTPs at
project sites and at PTP head offices. This Report is based on: information
gathered by a Bank mission which visited the project sites and implementing
agencies in March 1990, (b) the SAR, supervision reports and other internal
project documents, and (c) data provided by the PTPs, LPP and Team Khusus.
Despite the mission's efforts, accuracy of some of the data provided by the
PTPs could not be verified.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.32        Despite delays and problems encountered during project implement-
ation and less than expected results achieved - substandard smallholder
plantings, failure of the coconuts and food crop components, a non-effective
cost recovery system - the Project has achieved a satisfactory rate of return
(11Z) and has been successful in benefitting about 10,000 farm families and
created about 6,000 new jobs. The training component has helped further
develop an institution for training farmers and estate managers. Key lessons
learned in this and similar NES projects include:
(a)   it is essential that all land for development should be well
identified before starting any major development. This process
should not only involve the target people during preparation as
was done, but also to promote their greater participation and seek
their input on the intention and scope of the Project.



- 14 -
(b)   any project which involved several participating agencies should
have a strong central coordinating unit with clearly defined
responsibilities and authority throughout the life of the Project,
including adequate trained staff and funding:
(c)   the management capacity of an implementing agency should not be
overstretched, and if it is a semi-autonomous agency such as a
PTP, it should be a willing participant, undertaking a development
project best suited to its management capability and style.
(d)   central processing is suitable for tree crop projects planted in
compact blocks, but for projects with scattered plantings central
processing poses problems.
(e)   for a tree crop project, it is necessary to have contingency funds
immediately available to correct defects (or pest or disease
attack) before the cost of correction escalates;
(f)   government financing commitments for a tree crop project should be
longer than one year's activities because land clearing and
nursery establishment in one year presuppose planting in the next,
and then maintenance to maturity. Multi-year budgeting is
required;
(g)   support for training should distinguish between reasonable
expectations for short term impacts, and the slower process of
development of training institutions, where benefits will in the
medium term.
1.33        Finally, there is need to review the status of mature phase
management of smallholdings, as with restricted budgets on'ly limited effective
leadership has been provided by Team Khusus so far to ensure the sustained
development of the holdings. The Bank should accord high priority to
responding to Government's request for support in this area.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
(LOAN 2007-IND)
II. ProJect Review From Borrower's Perspctive
Introduction
2.00        The information 'n Part III of the report primarily came from the
records of the nucleus estate implementing agencies, i.e., PTP VII, PTP XI,
PTP XIII and PTP XXIII so far as these data pertain to protect site
accomplishments. These field data were checked by Tim Khusus and re-checked
by a Bank mission which visited the project sites and implementing agencies in
March 1991. Other data presented in Part III originates from the SAR,
supervision reports and from the files of Team Khusus and LPP.
2.01        Part I is a perceptive and insightful analysis and evaluation of
the Bank and is an accurate assessment of the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholder V Project during the project preparation and implementation.
Likewise, the systemic issues and problems raised by the Bank in Part I of
this report provides an in-depth evaluation of the various Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Projects. This analysis and evaluation presented by the Bank and
those in Part II of this report presented by the Borrower would be important
sources of insights in future courses of actions especially as these relate to
future Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects and even are applicable to
other estates crops projects in Indonesia.
Bank Performance
2.02        The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
up to the present is the largest foreign lender in the estate crops sub-sector
in Indonesia when jointly with the Government of Indonesia both started the
implementation of the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Pro 3ct in late 1977.
Prior to this date the International Development Association a sister company
of IBRD, assisted selected government-owned estate crops enterprises in their
rehabilitation and expansion programs. The assistance of the IBRD has not
only been on a project-specific basis or in the determination of certain
common issues and problems of various estate crops projects, assessing them
and suggesting solutions, but also in certain macro-economic aspects
pertaining to the estate crops sub-sector.
2.03        Supervision by professionals from IBRD and consultants it hired
conducted regular missions not only for this project but for all other estate
crops projects the Bank has been assisting during the loan period. These
inspection missions were useful in identifying project-specific issues and
problems including solutions which serve as a basis in the identification,



- 16 -
assessment and recommendations related to common issues and problems. Aside
from these supervision missions the Bank's professional staff stationed in the
Resident Staff of Indonesia were available for discussions and consultation to
resolve certain problems in between these supervision missions. These inputs
were important in improving project implementation. Based on hindsight, the
Bank should have fielded, depending on the state of the project implementa-
tion, specialists not only on most of the various physical aspects and finance
but also in relation to the smallholder component, specialists in extension,
smallholders organization, training including of farmers, sociology/anthro-
pology and food crop agronomy. These aspects should not have only been
considered during project implementation by way of training of staff and
consultancy but should have been sufficiently assessed as part of the project
preparation.
2.04        Notwithstanding these hindsights, both the government officials
concerned and the Bank's professionals coordinated closely with each other to
improve the performance of the projects during the loan period. At a later
stage of the implementation of the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects
the use of action plans was introduced by the professionals of the Bank as a
result of supervision missions. These action plans were discussed with
government agencies concerned and agreements reached on courses of actions to
be taken. This tool help in improving project implementation. Furthermore,
at a later stage a sharper focus on specific issues and problems was
emphasized which developed skills in problem solving and had likewise an
impact on project performance.
Borrower's Performance
2.05        Project identification was performed by the government and
assessed by the Bank. The expected nucleus estate implementing ag ncies
conducted the initial surveys of proposed project areas which was tullowed up
by a feasibility study by an independent team of consultants. Later, Bank
professionals and its hired consultants conducted the appraisal. During these
various stages of project preparation various government agencies concerned
were consulted and meeting were conducted to thresh out identified issues and
problems considering improvements made during the first NES projects. NES V
followed the past project design and incozporated project-specific problems
identified, such as, size of smallholders areas in West Java considering
population density. The early NES projects were started during a short period
and not enough experience had been gained hence features which could have
affected project design and implementation were not incorporated.
2.06        Sufficiency and capability of various government staff including
those of nucleus estates implementing agencies were not assessed during
project preparation hence the required staffing and training were not part of
the project design. Staffing requirements were therefore partially addressed
during project implementation considering constraints and training was based
on learn as you gain experience.
2.07        Reliance was therefore placed on consultants in areas identified
but not all of these areas with significant impacts on project performance



- 17 -
were considered during project preparation considering that sufficient project
implementation had not been gained.
2.08        Coordination among various govermnent agencies had also to be done
as a result of issues and problems arising from project implementation. These
coordination issues and problems were not reasonably identified during project
implementation since the role3 and functions of each of these government
agencies were not clearly enumerated as these roles and functions pertained to
project implementation. Because these project-specific roles and functions of
various government agencies had to evolve during project implementation, the
integration of various elements and factors of pro,ject implementation was
inadequate resulting in not so sound sequencing o. various project components
affecting project performance.
2.09        The continuing delay in yearly budgetary approach of credit and
non-credit financing for the smallholder development followed by the delay in
releasing of funds, and the unit cost set up for development based on regions
instead of project-specific costs also have contributed to the poor quality of
project performance and to a .'ertain extent the low utilization of the Bank
loan.
2.10        The overhead and management fees for the smallholder components to
the nucleus implementing agencies was based as a percentage of estate crops
field establishment cost hence these nucleus estate implementing agencies
placed emphasis on estate crops field establishment instead of sequencing
implementation of various project component on a sound basis considering their
interrelationships to achieve hetter performance. These fees were likewise
inadequate so that the nucleus estate implementing agencies had to spend their
own funds to implement the smallholder components.
2.11        In the case of the nucleus estate components, where the scope of
the project's activities, among others, was the establishment of facilities of
processing and marketing, delays in implementing the project's activities,
both in the nucleus estate and smallholder development has adverse impact, on
the production schedule and productivity which resulted in the deterioration
of the capital structure, profitability and the liquidity ratios of the
related PTPs as Nucleus Estate.
2.12        Since the support required of government agencies concerned was
not reasonably assessed during project implementation, those government
agencies did not have sufficient financial support to undertake the work they
were commissioned to perform.
Borrower and Bank Relations
2.13        Notwithstanding deficiencies as a result of inadequate experience
which resulted in certain shortcomings in project design and implementation,
the Borrower and the Bank were in close coordination with each other
especially the Team Khusus and the nucleus estate implementing agencies. The
Director General of Estates coordinated closely with Bank officials especially
on problems and issues requiring resolution by higher authorities of govern-
ment. Team Khusus closely coordinated with the Resident Staff in Indonesia in



- 18 -
resolving certain problems and issues identified in the action plans and
conducted the necessary meetings with Bank professionals and representatives
from government agencies. The supervision mission closely coordinated with
the nucleus estates implementing agencies to improve project performance.
2.14        When requested the Bank staff with the Resident staff in Indonesia
and later on with those at the Bank's Headquarters provided the required
assistance not only to resolve issues and problems but even to amend certain
provisions of the Loan Agreement. This close coordination between the
Borrower and the Bank was an important element 4.n raising project performance.
Lessons Learned
2.15        The NES concept is sound not only as a vehicle of social and
economic development but also as a mode of pursuing a commercial venture.
Nonetheless, to increase its effectiveness and efficiencies certain changes in
project design during project preparation has to be incorporated and their
features adhered to during project implementation. Among others, these
features should consider:
(i)   A sufficiently detailed land suitability survey should be
conducted. Land availability should not only consider
existing laws on land embodied in statutes but should include
customary and traditional practices pertaining to land by the
local inhabitants.
(ii)   Manpower adequacy and capability of the estate crops
enterprise including those for a specific project area and at
least important government agencies concerned have to be
sufficiently addressed.
(iii)   Aside from a multi-year budgeting, a stable and adequate
source of local funds should be available and budgeting of
costs based on project-specific requirements.
(iv)   All aspects of functional areas especially as this pertains to
the smallholder component has to be sufficiently assessed.
(v)   The fees for the nucleus estate implementing agencies have to
be adequate and based on a per unit of physical accomplishment
to be paid for work completed based on findings and assessment
of inspection services. All aspects of physical accomplish-
ment and related activities have to be considered in
determining the fee per unit of work performed.
(vi)   The roles and functions specific to project implementation of
various government agencies concerned has to be clearly
enumerated and interrelationship between these agencies
reasonably explained.



- 19 -
(vii)   Support requirements not only for the project but in case of
several projects of the same type should be sufficiently
assessed, such as, research, training, consultancies,
equipment and others.
(viii)   Sequencing of various physical items and related factors have
to be clearly spelled out.



- 20 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan                                 Year of
Title             Purpose           approval /b  Status       Comments
1499-IND   Support GOI's tree crop    1978       Closed  PCR issued June 1988.
NES I      program. /a
1604-IND                               1978      Closed  PCR issued June 1988.
NES II
1751-IND                               1980      Closed  PCR issued March 1989.
NES III
1835-IND                               1980      Closed  PCR issued June 1989.
NES IV
212b-IND                               1982      Closed  PCR issued June 1990.
NES VI
2232-IND                               1983      Under   Loan extended
NES VII                                           SPN    to Dec. 1991.
3000-IND   Improve oil palm and        1989      Under   Loan effective
Tree Crops rubber processing                     SPN     March 1989.
Processing capacity and effi-
ciency.
/a All seven Bank-financed NES projects have an identical purpose --
supporting GOI's program for the development of the major tree crops
(rubber, oil palm and coconuts), using public estate companies (PTPs) to
develop tree crops on nucleus estates and smallholders with a view to
improving rural incomes and increasing production and export of non-oil
commodities.
lb IBRD Fiscal Year.



- 21 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Activity                   Planned            Revised              Actual
Identification               -                   -            April 1978
Preparation                  -                   -            February 1980
Appraisal Mission            -                   -            October 1980
Loan Negotiations            -                   -            April 1980
Board Approval               -                   -            May 1981
Loan Signing                 -                   -            June 1981
Loan Effectiveness           -                   -            September 1981
Project Completion    June 30, 1988              -            December 1990
Loan Closing           June 30, 1988    June 30, 1989         December 31, 1990
December 31, 1989
December 31, 1990



22 -
Table 3: Loan DlsbursaAmftw
Fonial ly
Fiscal    Actual Aja. Profi le At. Rovl*W Amt.  Original Amt. Rav1u jAn%.
Year     Cumlative   Cumulative   Cumulat ia    CuuIlatlv    Cumlat4v.
Sep, 190
Doe, 1990
Mar, 1991
Jun, 191
1982
Sop, 1981
*Co, 1991
Mar, 1982         .76                                                    1.17
Jun, 1962        2.34          1.03                        2.00          2.34
1983
S*p, 192         6.31          2.06                        6.00          5.40
Doc, 1962        8.31          3.09                        8.00          8.44
Mar, 1983       10.69          4.12                       13.00         11.20
Jun, 1983       13.84          6.17                       18.00         13.97
1984
Sap, 1963       10.78          8.23                       20-60         16.70
Doc, 1963       19.33         11.83                       36.00         19.45
Mar, 1984       30.13         16.43                       43.00         30.07
Jun, 1984       40.64         19.6v                       61.00         40.61
Sop, 1964       44.35         23.67                       O0.S0         43.26
Doe, 1984       45.70         27.78                       70.00         45.82
Mar, 1985       46.68         31.90                       78.00         47.26
Jun, 1995       48.67         35i.60                      86.00         48.69
199t
Sop, 1986       49.S1         39.10                       96.00         60.31
oc, 1995       61.84         42.70                      104.00         61.9"
Mar, 1998       63.31         46.30                      112.00         64.60
Jun, 1996       67.11         49.91                      120.00         57.23
1987
Sop, 196        S8.93         53.51                      12S.00         59.16
Doc, 1988       W0.8          67.62                      136.00         61.06
Mar, 1987       62.61         61.74                      148.00         63.30
Jun, 1987       85.40         65.38                      160.00         65.SC
1998
Sap, 1967       69.30         69.97                      158.50         68.01
DOC. 1967       71.32         74.09                      161.00         70.47
Mae, 1968       73.11         76.20                      161.00         72.36
Jun, 198        76.16         82.32                      161.00         74.25
1969
Sop, 1966       7.84          S6.44                                     76.42
Dec, 198S        0.48         90.55                                    7t.6C
Mar, 1969       81.54         94.67         42.00                       60.00
Jun, 1969       83.87         96.78        68.30                        81.45
1990
Sop, 1969       84.89        102.90         73.75                       62.66
Doc, t199        6.69        102.90         79.20                       64.2S
Mar, 1990       88.42        102.90         84.65                       86.6U
Jun, 1990       89.64        102.90        90.10                        n.00
1991
S*p, 1990       90.53        102.90         96.60                       90.50
oeo, 1990       92.03        102.90        101.00                       92.00
Mar, 1991       93.SS        102.90        106.00                       93.50
Jun, 1991       94.06        102.90                                     94.10



- 23 -
TABLE 4: Project Implementation
Appraisal   Revised             Actual as I
Unit  estimate   estimate   Actual  Apr/Rev Est
sA %H0OUER DEVELOPMENT-
-- ____ __ _*___
1. Ngabang (PTP VII)
a. Oil palm planting             Ha      11,000       8,000    8,000          100%
b. Roads:
- Primary                    km           60                   9O         150%
- Secondary                   km         140                  375         268%
c. Settler housing               No       5,500       4,000    4,000          100%
d. Smallholder families          No       5,500       4,000    4,000          100%
2. South Banten (PTP XI)
a. Oil palm planting             Ha       8,000                6,296           79%
b. Roads:
- Primary                     km          48                   149        310%
- Secondary                   km          24                   120        500%
c. Settler housing
- New construction           No        4,750                2,700          57%
- Rehabilitation              No         550                  655          119%
d. Smallholder families          No       5,333                 4,418          83%
3. Sanghyang Damar (PTP XI)
a. Rubber planting               Ha       3,700       2,820    2,585           92%
b. Roads:
- Primary                     km          18                    20        111%
- Secondary                   km          88                    23         26%
c. Settler housing               No       2,017       1,880    1,723           92%
- New construction           No        2,050       1,430      983          69%
- Rehabilitation             No          450         450       740        164%
d. Smallholder families          No       2,467       1,880    1,723           92%
4. Bintar Jaya - Ciemas (PTP XI)
a. Coconut planting              Ha       6,700       4,850    4,850          100%
b. Roads:
- Primary                    km           70                    43         61%
- Secondary                   km         109                    30         28%
c. Settler housing               No       1,758                   905          51%
- New construction           No        2,400       1,741    1,394          80%
- Rehabilitation             No        2,100       1,507      654          43%
.d. Smallhqlder families         No       4,500       3,233    3,246          100%
5. Cimerak (PTP XIII)
a. Coconut planting              Ha       3,000       2,610    2,610          100%
b. Roads:
- Primary                     km          25                    18         72%
- Secondary                   km          25                   32         128%
c.' Settler housing              No        2000        1740      1740         100%
- New construction           No         1000         870     1600         184%
- Rehabilitation             No         1000         870       140         16%
d. Smallholder families          No        2000        1740      1740         100%



-24 -                          Table 4
Page 2
Appraisal   Revised             Actual as %
Unit  estimate   estimate   Actual  Apr/Rev Est
NUCLEUS ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
1. Ngabang (PTP VII)
a. Oil palm planting             Ha       3,500                 3,500         100%
b. Estate roads                  km           45        204       204         100%
c. Palm oil mill                 No            1                    1         100%
2. South Banten (PTP XI)
a. Oil palm planting             Ha       4,000                 4,729         118%
b. Coconut seed garden           Ha          180                  180         100%
c. Estate roads                  km          100                   67          67%
d. Palm oil mill                 No            1                    1         100%
3. Sanghyang Damar (PTP XI)
a. Rubber factory (Upgrade)    No              1                    1         100%
4. Bantar Jaya - Ciemas (PTP XI)
___________
a. Copra mills                   No            2                    2         100%
5. Cimerak (PTP XIII)
a. Coconut planting              Ha          700                  700         100%
b. Estate roads                  km           15                   15         100%
c. Copra mill                    No            1                    1         100%
6. Seluma (PTP XXIII)
a. Rubber planting               Ha       5,000       4,650    4,617           99%
b. Estate roads                  km           45                   18          40%
c. Bridges                        m           90                  123         137%
d. Rubber factory                No            1                    1         100%



-25 -                          Table 4
Page 3
Appraisal   Revised             Actual as %
Unit  estimate   estimate   Actual  Apr/Rev Est
TOTAL SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
A. Tree Crop Planting
- Oil palm planting              Ha       19,000      8,000   14,296          179%
- Rubber Planting                Ha        3,700      2,820    2,585           92%
- Coconut Planting               Ha        9,700      7,460    7,460          100%
B. Roads:
- Primary                        Km          221                  320         145%
- Secondary                      Km          386                  580         150%
C. Settler housing                  No       11,275       7,620    8,368          110%
- New construction               No       15,700      8,041   10,677          133%
- Rehabilitation                 No        4,100      2,827    2,189           77%
D. Smallholder families             No       19,800      10,853   15,127         139%
TOTAL NUCLEUS ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
A. Tree Crop Planting
- Oil palm planting              Ha        7,500                8,229         110%
- Coconut planting               Ha          700                  700         100%
- Rubber planting                Ha        5,000      4,650    4,617           99%
B. Coconut Seed Garden              Ha          180                   180        100%
C. Estate roads                     km          205         204       304         149%
D. Bridges                           m           90                   123         137%
E. Mill/Factory Construction
- Palm oil mill                  No            2                    2         100%
- Rubber factory                 No            1                     1        100%
- Rubber factory (Upgrade)       No            1                     1        100%
- Copra mill                     No            3                    3         100%



- 26 -
Table 5: ProLect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(USS million)
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Local  Foreign  Total        Local Foreign  Total
Smallholder Development          92.8    71.5   164.3         32.8   36.0    68.8
Nucleus Estate Development       61.0    58.8   119.8         49.4   39.9    89.3
Program Support                   7.2    15.2    22.4          1.1   11.5    12.6
New Project Start-Up              0.0    15.5    15.5           0.0   11.2    11.2
Total Project Costs        161.0   161.0   322.0         13.3   98.6   181.9
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Planned           Actual
IBRD                                             161.0                94.1
PTPs                                              21.0                38.9
Government                                       140.0                48.9
Total                                       322.0              181.9



- 27 -
Table 6: Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic Rate    Financial Rate
of Return (Z)      of Re      (Z)
SAR       PCR    SAR /a    PCR
A.  Smallholder Development
Ngabang (PTP VII) Oil Palm                15         12      -         14
South Banten (PTP XI) Oil Palm            13         12      -         15
Sanghyang Damar (PTP XI) Rubber           15         15      -         19
Bantar Jaya-Ciemas (PTP XI) Coconut       14          6      -          7
Cimerak (PTP XIII) Coconut                18          -       -
B.  Nucleus Estate Development
Ngabang (PTP VII) Oil Palm                19         11      -         14
South Banten (PTP XI) Oil Palm            14         11      -         14
Cimerak (PTP XIII) coconut                17          4      -          5
Bengkulu (PTP XXIII) Rubber               17         14      -         18
C.  Overall for Project                       16         11       -        14
Economic Variables                             Appraisal               PCR
A. Prices                                    1981 Constant        1991 Constant
B. Conversion Factors
Labor                                                            1.0
FertilizerlAgrochemicals                                         1.2
Other Inputs                                                     0.8
C.  Exchange Rate:  US$1 -                      Rp 625               Rp 1,901
/a FinAncial rates of return were not estimated at appraisal.



- 28 -
TABLE 7: STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
AGREEMEN
TYPE OF    UPOATE C0R ST
SECTICN              COVENAT   DATE   CQOE   DESCRIPTION OF COVEW#T                          CU9RT COVENT STA11JS DESCRIPTIoN
LOMN
ART. 3.01(A)          7         06/25/91  2 B9 OER SHALL PROWTLY PRODE RWS                   IN COPLLANCE.
REUIED FOR CARRYING OUT THE PROJECT.
ART. 3.01 ()         Fl         06/25/91  2 R£UND T ESTATES UNER  MMSID Y LOAN                i COMPLIANCE.
AGREEMEXS INCLVUING TERMS AND COrTICS IN
SOEDULE 5.
ART. 3.01 (8)()      F          06/25/91  2 REUDO     ESTATES UNODR SsSMIY LOAN              AOEBAMES EXEUED.
AGREDE4TS DIUNLN  TERMS AN COToNM S
IN SOQEDUA.E S.
ART. 3.01() (II)     F7         06/25/91  2 WL   TO ESTATE SUCH ADOrrIM4AL RWS REWIED  IN COPL!ANCE.
BY ESTATE TO CARRY OWT m  ESTATEDEVEUPIET
UOER PROJECT.
ART. 3.01(D)(II)     F7         06/25/91  2 ESREE THAT FUNS AE PRVED IN ACCODANCE  IN COIPLIANE
WIH SECTION 3.03(A) MO S>>UlE 8.
ART. 3.02 ()         I          06/25/91  2 EMLOY EXETS/CONSULTANTS IN ACCORDCE WI   IN COWPLIME.
PROVISIONS IN SOCUHED 2.
ART. 3.03(A)        f3          06/25/91  4 SRI TO ENTER INT  wALLHOLDER RDIT                NOT IN CCLIANCE; C RSTION OF S
AGREEM0NTS WI  SETTERS "ER CONDITIONS        TREE CROPS DEV3OPM  EXWIlUTRES
SATISFACTORY TO THE BQA.                     CREDITS IS SERIOUSLY BEHITO SOLU
PROBLEMS OF SLESTANDAtD PLtnINO A
BY 00¢  Aq4CIES (BRI, AOAIA, BISP
IN CARRYIN WrT VARICUS ACTIVITIES t
CERTIFICATION, UDIT OF EENDITRES
TECONICAL EVALUATION OF PLATI) F
COVCERSION.
RT. 3.030()        F3          06/25/91  2 DGE/ESTATES TO ENTER INTO SMALJ.HOLDER           IN COFLIANCE.
DEVELQMENT AW?ED1ETS WI1H EACH PTP UNDER
TERMS AND CONTrIONS SATISFACT    TO M .SAW.
ART. 3.04(A)        I13         06/25/91  2 DGE (ASSISTED BY TEM *4MS) PREPARE ANNUAL  IN COMPLIANCE.
OK PROGWA  kV BOGVET FOR PROJECT FOR NEXT
YEAR BY 10/31 (START FROM 10/31/81).
ART. 3.04(0)         M3         06/25/91  2 EA   ESTATE/PROVINCE TO PREPAREANAL W            IN COWLIANC.
PROM  BLDGET AND SfBMIT TO DGE BY OCT. 15
ART. 3.04(9)         us        06/25/91    2  (STARTIN  10/16/81)
ART. 3.0e(A)         I         06/25/91   2 ESTABLISH BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR LPPS AN          IN COWNCE.
APPOINT EXECJTIVE DIPECTOR AND OTHER 1MeR
BY 10/31/81.
ART. 3.08(B)         I         06/25/91   2 ENGAGE AoTiomNL QAUIFIED PERScNEL TO             IN COPLIAE.
STAFF ADEQUATELY LPPS AT YOGYAARTA AND
MEDAN BY 1/31/82.
ART. 3.09            ml        06/25/91   2 COPLETE OIL PALM PROCESSG FACILITIES BY    IN COWPLANCE.  0EVER, MlLL WAS a
1/31/86 ADO 1/31/86 (OR S" OTHER AGREED      3 YMS BEHO SCH4.L.
DATES PROVIDED APPROPRIATE ARRANGEMENTS ARE
MADE BY PTP XI (AFtER 1/31/8) AND PNP VII
(AFTER 1/31/86) TO ADEQATELY COMP4SATE
SETTLERS FOR OIL PALM PRODUCTION OFFERE FOR
SALE.
5SC. 1, PARA. 4(9)   Fl        06/25/91   2 SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGEEfIAS - SECTION 3.01(9). AGREEMlES  EXECUTED.
$CH. 1, PARA. 4(C)   F3        06/25/91   2 SUALLOLDER DEVELPIENT AGReDE   - SECTION    AGREDQTS EXECJTED.
3.03(9).
*****STATUS CODES,***. **s***eCOVEANT TYPE CODES***       * *                 *                    TYPE CODES.******a**s******
l4AVAILASE            INSTIlUTION- IsCREATE/REVISE/UPDATE ORGANI-                     F4dSELF-INANCINQ RATIO
2dlN COPLIANCE        NAL:            ZATIONS;IWPROVE MrT  S MIS;                     F9xDEBT/EQUITY RATIO; DEST SERVICE RATIO
3=PARTLY COPLIED                      AGRESATS BET1ED  OR WIH                         F6=PRICING OF PROUCTS
4UNOT IN COWLIANCE                    AGECIES                                         F7 ROVISION OF LOCAL RFNS
6=TO BE WAIVED/DELETED  MANAGER-    M1=SUPERVISION OF IMPLEMENTA-                     '  REPARE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRA"
"1 LONGER RELEVANT   IAL:           TION (PLAN/ACTION/REPORTING                     F9sLEEL OF  TSTMANDIN4 ARREARS
. BE AMENED                       INCL. PRO0*ENT ACnTON,                         FlO-ASSET REVALUATION; DEPRECIATION
SatLT YET DM                          DEVEL5P ACCOUNTDNC SYSTEM)           TECHNIC-  Tl=CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
hM2ADEQUATE TRAINDNC PO"RAU             CAL:      T2zLAND ACQUISITICN & MAPPING
M3=*0   PR0GRAV/3WR ET PREP'D                      T3=SITE SELECTION
FMANC-      FlSIGNINQ OF SUISDIARY                            T40ETAILED ENDGD DNG
AL1:           AGREMENT                                        T6SENSURE 0 A M PLAN   FUDING
F2zRATES OF RETURN                                T62ENVIRgNENT
F3COST RECOVERY A INT. RATES            OTHERS:  OTHlTHERS



- 29
TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs (s/w)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    Planned         Revised         Actual
Through appraisal                                            n.a.           n.a.             50.3
Appraisal through Board approval                             n.a.           n.a.            118.6
Board approval through effectiveness                         n.a.           n.a.             n.a.
Supervision                                                  n.a.           n.a.            175.7
Total                                                 n.a.            n.a.           344.6
B. Missions
Stage of Project               No. of       Days in   Specialization         Perf.        Type of
Cycle            Mo/Yr    Persons       Field/a    Represented /b       Status/c    Problems/d
Appraisal            10/80        7          na.       AE,TC,FA,EG            n.a.          n.a.
Supervision          06/83        2           5           AG,FA                 3             F
08/83       2            6           AG,FA                2             M
07/83       2            3           AG,FA                1
07/85       3           17           TC,FA                2            F,M
04/88       7           30        ED,TC,EC,AG             2            F,M
02/87       6            7         FA,TC,ED               3             M
10/87       3           30           FA,TC                3            F,M
08/88       3           28           FA,TC                3            F,M
04/89       3           15           TC,FA                3            F,M
05/90       2           19          TC, FA                3            F,M
PCR                  03/91        1           28            TC                n.a.          n.a.
/a  PCR mission estimates based on Bank's project files.
/0 Specialization: AG=Agriculturalist; FA=Financial Analyst;
TC=Tree Crops Specialist; EG=Engineer; ED=Education Specialist
/c Performance Rating: 1=Problem-free or minor problems; 2=Moderate problems;
3=Major problems.
/d Types of problems: F=Financial; M=Manag.rial
C.   Costs
Data are not available on cost of staffing inputs; broken down by each stage
of the project cycle.



- 30 -
Table 9:  Trro crop Yield Estlmate  - Rubber and Coconut
(pee he per year)
.i     l  a ~    __                    _ _ _ _ __._. _ ._. . ..ol  d,                     ,
|   .  uvighe      Cimeruli              senQhyetg 0.are         Cruhang-joyg Ce a,.a
Ce,TP~~~U~  (pTP~~IZZ)            (Y'WX1~o         (PT !)(P  t)~
l @ 2 ::* w _ :~~~~~~~~a"hn e: lf4L                     oft s  /    
SA       SAR PCR           PeM              SANt      PC       SAM      PMsA                PM~
.        _    1,000      234    5                    .       800       144       a00       1
7J30    400    1,900      644    6          473 J S            NSO     250      1,5 O       350
1,030      900    2.00    1, OS     7         730     160     2.200      500     2,200        S00
1,220    1.000    3. 00    1,2"      4         950     600     2,400      SW      2. NO        900
1,400    2,100    4,100    1.733    9        1,040     760     3,300      9oo     3,300      1,000
1,4bO    1.200    4, 00    1,947    10       1,100     *70     3,700    1. 100     ,700      1,300
1, g0    1, 300    4. SO    2,076    11      1.150     90      3,900    1,100     4,000      S.XO
1,S70    1.SOO    4, 500    2,201    . 2     1,340    1.100    3.9a0    1,1 o     4*,1       1,700
1,750    1,SOW    4,500    2,201    L3       1.300   1,160     3,900    1. a0      4,100     2,100
1.6 0    1,600    4. SO    2.201    14       1,420    1,20    3. o0   1.11        4,1 oo    2,100
1, 50    1,700    4. COO    2.201    i5      1.4,0   1,320     3, 0o    1. 15      4, WC     2,100
2.100    1,700    4, 5O    2,201    14       1, M0   1.300    3,         1,1.50    4.100     2.100
2,350    1, 800    4, S0   2,201    17 U     1,       1.420    3,900    1,150      4,100     2.100
2,280    1. 900    4,500    2,201    16      1.560    1.450    3,900    1,150      4, t00    2.100
2,000    1, 800    4,5 0   2,201    1C       1.5      1,450    3,900    1a,1 5     4,100     2,100
2,130    1,700    4. SO    2,201    20       1,470   1.420      3.900    1,5 0     4, 100    2,100
2,000    1,700    4,0 S0    2,201    21      1.480    1.400     3,900    1, 5o     4,100    2,100
1. 940    1,700    4,5 O    2,201    22      1,320    1, 32    3,900    1,150      4,100     2,100
1,920    1.700    4,500    2.201    23       1,300   1,300     3,9W0    1. 0       4,100     2, 100
1,900    1,500    4. 500    2.201    24      1,220   1,22     3,900    1,15       4,100     1 ,600
1,750    1,400    4, S0    2.201    2.3      1,190   1.180     3,9CO    1,1       *,too      1.300
1.610    1.300    4,000    2,230     2       1,110    1,110    3,4o0   1,100       3.a S     1.100
1,550    1,200    4,000    2,010    27       1.095   1,040     3.400    1,100      3,60W     1,100
1,340    1,000    4,00     2.030    23         990     940     3.400    1,100  a,600         1,100
1,30    1,000    4, 000    2,010    29         970     64      3,400    1,100                1,100
1,220    1,000                      30         610     SOO
PMavene                  1,394              1,911                                        1.000               1500
SAM. avene      1,705              4,052                     1,210              3,454
t  PCIiMAR 2               so0                50    _              .   00                  2                   42



- 31 -
Table 10:  Tr.. Crop Y'ild EWM*t4M - O II Pa. - No*bang
(per he per' year)
Nucloeu EstateSulhIdP
.,.-                           -        -  L''               -         -... 
PISRm*         FS   Ot l         CPO     Kerniol    Kernol      o       CP
year        Tons       t      Tons -              T-n- T-     o       TO       -
4              4       17    0.66        3.5      0.14       2.5      0.43       0.09
5              S       16     1.08       3.7      0.22       3.5      0.U3       0.13
t10    19.5                  1.95       3.8    0.3          a       1.17       0.23
7             12       20     2.40       4.0      044         a       1.t0       0.32
*             12    21.5    2.50         4.5      0.54         9      1.94       0.41
9              t13    21.5    2.80       4.5     0.59         1t      2.37       0.50
10            13    21.5      2.a0       4.5      0.59        11      2.37        0.50
11            15    21.5    3.23         4.5      0.88        13      2.80        O.5S
12            1S    21.5    3.23         4.5      0.88        13      2.80        0.59
13            1S    21.5      3.23       4.5      0.de        13      2.90        0.40
14            14     21.5    3.01        4.5      0.83        12      2.58        0.54
15            14     21.5    3.01        4.5      0.63        12      2.54        0.54
16            13    21.5    2.80         4.5      0.59        11      2.3?        0.50
17            13    21.5    2.80         4.5      0.59       1i        2.37       0.50
to            12    21.5      2.5S       4.8      0.54        11      2.3?        0.50
19            12    21.5    2.58         4.5      0.54        10      2.15        0.48
20            12    21.5      2.58       4.5      0.54        10       2.15       0.45
2X            12    21.5    2.54         4.5      0.54        10       2.15       0.48
22            1L     21.5    2.37        4.5      0.50         9       1.94       0.41
25            11     21.5    2.37        4.5      0.50         9       1."4       0.41
24            11    21.5      2.37       4.5      0.50         9       1.94       0.41
25            10    21.5    2.15         4.8      0.45         6       1.72       0.34
26            10    21.5    2.15         4.5      0.45         5       1.72     *.0.34
28            10     21.5    2.15        4.5      0. S         a       1.72       0.30
Tota           290      520    61.63     109.5    12.S5        235     50.z1       10.50
Averag-         11.6   21.04     2.44      4.38      0.51       9.4       1.94       0.41
SAR awevrug      17.4   22.40      4.02      3.s      0.62       15.5      3.55       0.-4
67      94        St      125       847         1t        57         76



- 32 -
Table 11:  Tree Cros Yid Estimate. - Oil Pal.    South Benton
(p*r ha per year)
_     _                 _                                           
|   PlarRil"  FFB               cm CPO  KoIl*    K.rri       FQ        CPO KIer
"en.        r                 T rons     s        to,s      Tons      TOna       To.a
4             4        14    0.58        3.0      0.12      3.5       0.49       0.1l
a              8       15     0.90       3.5      0.21        6       0.90       0.21
G             10       17     1.70       3.5      0.35      9.5       1.12       0.33
7             12       19     2.28       4.0      0.4        10       1.90       0.40
6             12       20     2.40       4.0      0.41       12       2.00       0.40
9             14       21     2.93       4.0      0.54        11      2.31       0.44
t0            16       21     5.38       4.0      0.t4        12      2.52        0.4
11           1t        21     3.34       4.0      0.64        12      2.52        0.44
12            10       21     3.34       4,0      0.64        12      2.62        0.48
1.3           10       21     3.38       4.0      0. 4        12      2.52        0.45
14            1S       21     3.15       4.0      0.60        '.2     2.S2        0.44
15            Is       21     3.15       4.0      0.60        12      2.52        0.44
1i            14       21     2.94       4.0      0.35        12      2.52        0.44
17            14       21     2.94       4.0      0.34        12      2.52        0.44
La            13       21     2.73       4.0      0.52        11      2.31        0.44
19            13       21     2.73       4.0      0.52       1I       2.31        0.44
20            12       21     2.52       4.0      0.44        10      2.10        0.40
21             ;       21     2.52       4.0      0.48        10      2.10        0.40
22            11       21     2.31       4.0      0.44         9       1.69       0.35
23            11       21     2.31       4.0      0.44         0       1.89       0.38
24            10       21     2.10       4.0      0.40         a       1. 6       0.32
25            10       21     2.10       4.0      0.40         a       1.64       0.32
26             9       21     1.8t       4.0      0.3a         7       1.47       0.26
26             a       21     1.         4.0      0.32         a      1.23        0.24
Tot,i
FM averse       11.9    20.4    2.44        J.92      0.47       9.7      2.02        0.3a
SAM *aweS..      18.2    21.3     2.69      3.40      0.44      13.4       2.65       0.44
,  SAzS  z       74       go       6        115l      107        60        71          83
- -  -        -          -         -~~~~~~~~~~~ln



_  _A_                      __ND_                                                                                                                                    IBRD  1563
XSA0LANO  /   (PoLIr.SEs                                                                         102046                   MARCH 198
' RUNI       .         -                                                                           INDONESIA
MALAVSIA   t-^tA/SIDJ;> )                               D^"C.                                        NUCLEUS  ESTATES  AND
X  'ES0N~OAPOP¾t. J\                                                    lSMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
O.A00ANYAN,. 
e, StXVtV'    ''$BENGKULU(SELUMA  SITE)PTP XXIII
JRAN  A  IA
.~~~~          rA, of Mop      O.                        tl 
'A VA o    - .I.,,s                                          I                                         PROPOSED SMAL8HOLDE R DEMONSTRATION AREA
.0  2                                                                           PROPOSED RUBBER ESTATE SITE(PTP XXiIIJ)
~"T0 2° O                    102°30                            t            =CO N STRUCTED   ACCESS   ROA D
102~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~~~~~~1020'30r                                                                       ROADS
PaDeda t a -                                                                                                            RIVERS
- ,   ,                           -    -   - KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
-h     -< n - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
3030'                                              anIunojteodana                            Koanagtongg                                                                             30309
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
2   p )                 Z    ~~~~~   2                        KIL0METERS =             <        4          6          TR        10~~~~~~~~~4 
t fljuflgarung J         .                                                                                      O                                     0
. N                 \           )                  w                               ef 4@t&d#{ODSZ40e#POYTPR0^tH O$SfVI-$$t w-<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tato' o .4,00 .000*.0   ?V0 0000000O.0 O00 00t'
9,ENGKULU      {¢-                            e Kembangnadar                                          ,00,-,   00, 000  0 0f0     so,rtooc 00000 boOom0
<      \           f~~~~~Dusun Besal                               8              
NOIO      KuL   -
P_, ag9ardevwa                                 tbahiagan                       0E
3045                                                          314 -
A/e, 2J9 ItD            o         -ICL-US -S7a7.   PTPYA 
TO. /,g _                                       aJ a          
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ro                                  Sukaalrl
4000,
o0                                        *l1... 1t_03
1D0216                                                           0       102030               _             _           _-                         ?45 



IBRD 15634
150                                                            1u71                           ~                             s1 ThaILAND      kSleNSIn!     2 v      PHIlaorrues      MARCH 1981
LA I4PULAG                                                                                                                                             ANA"nA
M.,ak                                                                                                                                  g     A-AIA
Cikonen. pZ          <                                        1A _, A JAKAR7, TXa
log.~~~~~~~~~~ioo
PAND EGELANG /G Sd B/T?N                                        C       7                \-,I/0-9                                                                            Cd
SAG,                                                                                                                                                 KnNCo
.    tzv:sT X /   \  ._ . 0                                   /                              ajalengha '    j/ _                          G       !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 
PangoaoaIanqon%                                                                ySa/[1,Bndug>Sedong                                     ojaIehgk
Io gNDONESIA                                                                                                                                                                      Kunin-an~VJi _-7
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT                                                                                                                                       -                        -   zva    <t,'.>l(                       70
It"  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
WEST   JAVA    SITE(PTPXI &   PTPXIII)                                -          CC '-  A
PRCPOSED NUCLEUS ESTATES SITE                                                SegaaoJA    A
EXISTING NU,CLEUS ESTATES SITE
PROPOSED SMALLHOLDER SITES                         Onggeog
ROAD
RAILWAYS                                                                                         S ndnngboron\
RIVERIS
_   _   XABUPATEN BOUNDAPIES                            I,
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                        _f
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                             ,Pmoungpenk
KILOMETERS       10   20   3j0  4,0  50   B0   70   80                                           ICpptup
M0LES         10       20        3        40       50                             T7hs map h- b.een.p.ppd by rho World -ank o sIOlletclosfeOl for lb. --oeen-e                                 COCONUT (PT? hull
,_w I=da, shown   P10 np Oh h mplp the f at of td- WoO-d -ar dnd h,f
acrl.orf Of -l,h o-ds,,e-
106,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17 1o500'



_ _ 7>4090                                                                                                               100                                                       110030
,-,                                                                   BenIr90        , -                                                    INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
WEST KALIMANTAN (NGABANG SITE)PNPVII
PROPOSED NUCLEUS ESTATE SITE                          ROADS
Belango                                  PROPOSFD SMALL HOLDER SITES                 -  ---       RIVERS
(  _ EXISITNG ESTATE SITE                 -   -      KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
/                                                                                    -    - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0         10         20         30        40         50 KILOMETERS
/iy                         / Z. 8                                                           -                      0                10                                      MIL20  3  MlES
-0030'        vl                    /   zf                          /}                                               <                           ,_5i       /                                          >                          0°30'-
~~A(P 0.11 OIL PALM
MempeP P
S 0 .o / 6   rh   r a   \\                                                              \                    <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING PNP V7
PIVP 'Y OILPALMIL PALME OPENT
_oO PO   NT I A N AKASOAN \
Cl
.   ,,p
T\-Al. A                  -         r.
Fhls rap has been orepared by the                                                                                                                      ,T...
World Bank s staff e.clus,oely for L
the coneen-ece of the reades of
the 'eoor to wh,ch ri .s attached                                                                                    .                                                         s         ARA Of MAP
7he denom.nar.ons used and the                                         .                                                                                                    7     Pont,.,,
boundar,es shovvn on th.s nap                                                                                                                                  /A- IaAL 1-N rAt,
do notrtply. on the Dart of rhe                                                                                                                                                0                       5ArrS51           IR"A -ArA  S E t
>  WorMt Bnk and 'ts aff.ates. anv                                                                                                                                          '           A. R
II gudgnent on the leg,al starts oI                                                                                                                                                    JAoARfA
are lerr'tpory or any endolsenten
o' acceptance of such bhondanos                                                                                                                               IJ.0 ES _
g109                                                       109030-                                                       110°                                         SA,,            'tfO 



