Document of
The World Bank                   F    COP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3055-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
May 6, 1981
This decument has a restricted dIstribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank sutborzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           = Rp 625
Rp 100            =  US$0.160
Rp 1 million (M)  =  US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
BRI       -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CE        -  Copra Equivalent
DGE       -  Directorate General of Estates
GOI       -  Government of Indonesia
LLP       -  Estate Training Institute
NES       -  Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
ODA       -  Official Development Assistance
PMU       -  Project Management Unit
PNP       -  Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, a state-owned estate enterprise
PTP       -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, a state-owned estate enterprise
with limited liability
Team      -  Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects (within the
Khusus       Directorate General of Estates)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $161 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% p.a.
Relending          Beginning from the date of the signing of Smallholder Credit
Agreements between Bank Rakyat Indonesia and the small-
holders which would be 3 years after planting begins, loans
to smallholders would be at an interest rate of 10.5% p.a.
for 17 years, including a grace period of 2 years for oil
palm and coconut and 3 years for rubber. Loans to the
estates for estate development would be at an interest rate
of 13.5% p.a. for 13 years including 7 years of grace. The
Government of Indonesia (GOI) would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would assist GOI's nucleus estates and
smallholders development program by establishing 53,000 ha
of tree crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and
house gardens in West Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu
provinces with the public sector estates PTP XI, XIII,
XXIII and PNP VII as implementation agents. The project
would immediately benefit some 19,800 smallholder families
in the first two provinces and, through estate development
in the other, set the stage for additional smallholder
investments at a later time. It also includes technical
assistance to the Directorate General of Estates and the
participating estates, a training component and provision
for developing and initiating implementation of future
nucleus estates and smallholder investments. There are no
unusual technical risks in this project. In order to
address potential weaknesses in management of the various
estates the project includes effective measures to speed up
implementation and improve project management, therefore
minimizing this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:/l                               Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
Smallholder development         53.4      49.7    103.1
Estate development              34.0      42.3     76.3
Program support                  4.7      24.6     29.3
Base cost                       92.1    116.6    208.7
Physical contingencies          11.0      14.1     25.1
Price contingencies             57.9      30.3     88.2
Total cost                   161.0    161.0    322.0
Financing Plan:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
Bank                             -       161.0    161.0
GOI                            140.0       -      140.0
Estates                         21.0       -       21.0
Total                        161.0    161.0    322.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY           1982   1983   1984   1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual           2.0   16.0   33.0   35.0    34.0    36.0        5.0
Cumulative       2.0   18.0   51.0   86.0   120.0   156.0   161.0
Rate of Return: 16%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3342-IND, dated May 6, 1981.
/1 The project Is tax exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A FIFTH NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $161 million to help
finance a Fifth Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.6% p.a.
The proceeds of the loan disbursed on smallholder development would be reco-
vered through Smallholder Credit Agreements between Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
the smallholders. Signed three years after planting begins, the terms of
these Agreements would include an interest rate of 10.5% p.a. and amortization
of 17 years including a two-year grace period for oil palm and coconut
producers and a three-year grace period for rubber producers. The proceeds of
the loan relent to estates for estate development would be at an interest rate
of 13.5% p.a. for 13 years with a seven-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and,Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more t1an 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145
million people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The popula-
tion density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where almost 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country; over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita
is estimated to be $365./3                                         -
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth Urban
Development Project (No. P-3000-IND), circulated under cover of R 81-66,
dated April 2, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on
April 21, 1981.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1979.



-2-
4.         The economy has grown at an annual rate of 6-8% for over a decade -
the highest sustained growth rate of any low income country. Until about the
end of the First Five-Year Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74),
this rapid growth was largely due to effective recovery from the severe
dislocations of the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective
action to restore and then maintain macroeconomic stability, to liberalize
the economy and provide incentives for investment. There was a major
rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate
doubled to 18% of GDP. Since then growth has been greatly assisted by
international developments, in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices
and the commodity boom. The oil enclave is of particular importance to the
structure of the economy. Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in
1973 to $7.0 billion in 1979, while physical production increased less than
20%. This has had a direct effect on the balance of payments - in 1979/80 a
current account surplus of $2.0 billion was recorded for the first time
since independence. Although production linkages with other sectors have
been very weak, the oil enclave has had an important influence on overall
growth through the infusion of foreign exchange resources into the economy.
Since a significant fraction of these resources accrue to GOI through
taxation of oil companies' profits, the public sector has been one of the
major channels for the increased expenditure. Central Government
expenditures have been rising at about 15% annually. These factors
contributed to a growth rate of over 6% for GDP, with 12% for construction
and 9% for services. Manufacturing has also grown rapidly, at 11% p.a., but
it still accounts for less than 10% of GDP, compared with 13% for all low
income countries. In agriculture, growth has been largely determined by
supply factors, and has been about 3% p.a.; as a result its share of GDP has
declined from 40% to 30%. Despite the favorable general indicators, the
economy remains very underdeveloped and the non-oil current account is still
in persistent deficit. To lay the foundations for a post-oil future, a
broad-based expansion of industrial production and of both industrial and
agricultural exports will be required in the 1980s.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Despite the rapid growth in output, equivalent to a growth rate of
per capita income of about 5% p.a., Indonesia remains an extremely poor
country. Over 60% of the population, some 90 million persons, are estimated
to be living in conditions of absolute poverty. There are conflicting views
on the extent to which the poor have shared in economic growth. However, the
1970 and 1976 National Household Expenditure Surveys suggest a rate of growth
of per capita income of 3.5-5.2% p.a. for the poorest 40% of households, and
a reduction in poverty incidence of at least 10% between the two years.
Rural urban income disparities have widened, while intra-rural and
interregional income distribution appear to have improved. Although a large
majority of the poor live in rural areas, especially on Java, where landless
laborers form a large proportion of the population, poverty is also serious
in urban areas, where it is compounded by poor and overcrowded living
conditions.



- 3 -
6.         The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes. Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a. during the
1970s. In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and
about 6% in urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence
amongst young educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary
school education. The changing structure of employment, though very
different from that of production, is a reflection of the same underlying
factors. In the period 1971-78 manufacturing provided only 6% of the
increase in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-
intensive agriculture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively.
Agriculture still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the
period. Because the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth,
thereby encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of
industrial employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However,
in the future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical
importance for the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also
clear that increasing renumerative employment in agriculture, for example in
cash crop production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.         Indonesia's basic social indicators directly reflect the prevalence
of poverty. While impressive progress has been made in primary education,
where universal primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future,
secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-developed - this
is one of the main reasons for the current manpower shortage. Health
indicators are also generally poor: life expectancy is only 47 compared
with 50 for all low-income countries and 60 for Thailand and the
Philippines. Indonesia's infant mortality rate of 126 is almost double the
rates prevailing in these two South East Asian countries. Every year almost
700,000 infants less than one year old die. Low incomes, inadequate water and
sanitation facilities - only 12% of the population has access to safe water -
and a relatively high population to physician ratio are key factors explaining
the situation. The area of family planning, however, has been a notable
success. As a consequence of the National Family Planning Program,
established in 1970, fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and
Bali, where almost 50% of married women in the productive age group practice
modern methods of contraception.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.         Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the
country is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a
viable long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs
situation of the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year
Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84) are equity, growth
and the maintenance of national stability. The fact that Indonesia's
resource position is likely to be favorable for most of the 1980s presents
the country with an unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to
bring about the adjustments required to realize these goals.



9.        Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run develoment, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resource into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation. This emphasizes the importance of a distribution
of incremental expenditure in favor of improving sectoral supply responses.
In particular, it is important that a reasonable expansion of credit to the
private sector be maintained - in the past this has been excessively squeezed
to maintain monetary stability. This could entail a slower rate of expansion
of GOI expenditure.
10.       The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical
importance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for employment is
the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries and
was accompanied by a system of export certificates (tax rebates) to provide
additional incentives. However, by mid-1980 over half of the gains in
competitiveness in manufactured exports and import substitutes had been eroded
by domestic inflation. In addition, private industry continues to be
constrained by cumbersome administrative procedures, a wide variation in
rates of effective protection, and limitations on the availability of credit.
These require effective policy reforms. The favorable resource position
provides an opportunity for rationalizing the tariff structure and improving
the investment climate, accompanied, where necessary, by selected adjustment
assistance to adversely affected industries. Import liberalization would
also help to maintain short-run stability to the extent that it takes
pressure off tight domestic markets. The construction industry requires
special attention, as limited capacity is currently a critical constraint on
new investment and is contributing to higher inflationary pressures. To
encourage its rapid expansion, measures should be taken to provide additional
finance, through the banking system and equity participation, and to increase
the availability of skills, through training and relaxation of restrictions
on the use of foreign specialists.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food
production and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a
record level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a
decade earlier, largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new
agricultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure in
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very



- 5 -
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting.
This will require substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing.
12.       Human resources development is of central importance.  The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although the high
rates of employment amongst secondary school leavers suggest a major mismatch
between supply and demand at this level. In the short run there is scope for
better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training schemes,
while available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance fellow-
ships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. The poor health
indicators provide a strong justification for the use of incremental resources
in this sector. However, increased outlays on health infrastructure and urban
and rural water supply will have to be complemented by the development of
innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems, involving
the participation of local communities. The successful family planning
program provides a good model.
13.       Other sectors also require effective policy action.  In the energy
sector the rapid growth in consumption of oil and LNG accounts for almost all
of the consumption of modern sources of energy and could significantly reduce
the resource surplus. Diversification will require the development of hydro-
power, geothermal and coal resources, and a reduction in the high rate of
subsidization of petroleum products. The transport sector is a major
beneficiary of the fuel subsidy; this has shifted demand away from more
fuel-efficient systems.
14.        The activity of the public sector will have a critical influence
on long-run development. The oil windfall has substantially improved GOI
revenue: total revenue increased from Rp 5 trillion in 1978/79 to Rp 14 tril-
lion budgeted for 1981/82, of which 70% derives from oil; GOI expenditures now
account for around 30% of GDP. A significant fraction of incremental
resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to public and private
consumption in the form of higher civil service and military salaries from
initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities. Subsidies on petroleum
products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly to a budgeted level of
over $3 billion in 1981/82. Although this has shielded the economy from
sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to be limited and
consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not been the very
poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the extent that
it now appears that the financial constraint is often less important than
nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of skilled manpower,
the capacity of the construction industry and limited administrative
capability. The administrative framework for project implementation was
greatly improved in 1979 by the introduction of simplified appropriation
procedures and the adoption of post-auditing practices. However, restric-
tions in eligibility of certain smaller contracts to small firms controlled



-6-
by economically weak groups is likely to delay local project implementation.
Wider issues of administration, including the question of decentralization,
are also under review. An additional problem affecting the productivity of
public investment is inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure, of
particular importance in irrigation and roads.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI's budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to
maintain the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since
expenditure from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expen-
diture from oil revenue. Non-oil tax revenue as a proportion of nonmining GDP
actually declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and
1980/81. It is critical that the capacity of the tax system be increased
through expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving
administration. There is also great scope for mobilization of resources
through reduction of the budgetary subsidies on petroleum and other products.
A steady rise in domestic petroleum prices to the international level during
the 1980s would have a major impact on budget savings as well as encouraging
alternative energy uses and eliminating distortions.
16.       External financing of GOI expenditure is budgeted at $2.4 billion
in 1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40% in
1978/79. Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about $15
billion at the end of 1980; including undisbursed amounts, external public
debt totalled almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia
remains the principal source of external capital, including Official
Development Assistance (ODA) to the country. New commitments in 1980 were
almost equal to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank's 1980 economic
memorandum on Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are estimated
to have reached $1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased availability of
foreign exchange, capital inflows are not required on resource grounds in
the near term. However, toward the end of the disbursement periods of
projects currently being considered it is anticipated that a resource gap
will reemerge in Indonesia. In addition, there is still an urgent need for
the technical assistance embodied in foreign loans. Indeed the achievement
of the policy and institutional development objectives which are key aspects
of external assistance will be critical to preventing the emergence of an
unmanageable resource deficit toward the end of the decade. It is anticipated
that ODA will continue at a reduced real level, and on harder terms in the
first half of the 1980s.  It is anticipated that the public debt service
ratio, with oil exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of 10-12%
for the first half of the 1980s.



-7-
17.       In the past, selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended on the grounds that finance of only the foreign exchange cost of
projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's capital requirements. In view
of the present favorable resource position, local cost financing in the
future will be limited to projects of key importance and where such financing
is required to ensure a significant Bank contribution.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
18.       As of April 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling $931.8 million, and 55 Bank loans amounting to $3,696.5 million. IFC
investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of February 28, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
19.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then increasingly towards the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Reflecting in part
the successes of the first two Plan periods Repelita III, published in early
1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but departed
from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable income
distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in line
with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater attention
to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector) and
improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth Urban
Development Project (No. P-3000-IND), circulated under-cover of R81-66,
dated April 2, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on April 21,
1981.



- 8 -
20.       While in many respects Indonesia's basic development constraints and
issues remain unchanged, the resource surplus discussed in Part I of this
report provides GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its development
effort. This will require the articulation of a coherent set of policies
designed to promote employment through the development of an efficient
industrial sector; the acceleration of irrigation and tree crop development
programs; increased emphasis on measures designed to alleviate critical
manpower constraints, particularly at the intermediate and higher levels; and
the development of innovative low-cost programs designed to meet the basic
needs of the population. Special attention will also have to be given to
alleviating institutional and administrative bottlenecks which currently
inhibit plan implementation. The Bank's own program of lending and economic
and sector work is being geared to support GOI's efforts to address these
issues. For example, the Bank is planning to significantly expand its
hitherto modest involvement in the industrial sector. An industrial sector
report which focuses on policy issues is being completed and additional
economic work designed to provide the necessary understanding for an expanded
involvement in the sector is under way. An industrial finance operation
designed to support industrial lending through several financial
intermediaries is being prepared and projects designed to support engineering
industries, export processing, small-scale industry as well as some large
scale enterprises, are at various stages of identification and preparation.
Initiatives are also planned in the energy sector. Indonesia is overly
dependent on oil for its own energy consumption. In an effort to help
Indonesia articulate an energy development program of domestic energy sources
as well as a rational set of domestic pricing policies (para. 15 above), the
Bank has embarked on a significant program of energy sector work. This is
also expected to result in a number of projects suitable for Bank
participation.
21.       Outside industry and energy, no major shifts in the balance of Bank
lending are expected. Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a
substantial portion of Bank agricultural lending and continued support for
the provision of basic services (population, education, health, nutrition,
urban development and water supply) and transport is anticipated. However,
it is expected that these operations will increasingly focus on institutional
changes and policy issues and that they will be gradually broadened to a
subsector and sector basis to have a broader impact than hitherto. For
example, a proposed maritime transport project would focus on required
regulatory reforms and a planned health project would attempt to improve
low-cost health care systems. The justification for Bank lending will thus
depend more on technical assistance rather than resource transfers.
22.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to
be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,



- 9 -
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by G0I
and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project-specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of
these reviews was held in June 1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in
September 1980. In addition, a procurement seminar was held in Jakarta in
September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the GOI has
taken several measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce
initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being
presented for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle.
Indications are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking
place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million
in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80; considerably higher disbursements are
projected in FY81 (if the performance of the first six months of this fiscal
year continues, disbursements for FY81 will exceed $400 million). While it is
important that the Bank and the GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are
encouraging.
23.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
24.        The proposed project constitutes the sixth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Previously approved
loans include the Smallholder Coconut Development, University Development,
Fourth Urban, Swamp Reclamation and Tenth Power projects. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Jakarta Cikampek
highway, second small enterprise development, Bukit Asam mining and second
seeds projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
25.       Objectives.  GOT's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.



- 10 -
26.       Performance.  Nearly 16 million smallholder families produce
subsistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha, while 1,800 estates
occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and
tobacco. Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of production, the
agricultural sector's share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968,
while its share in total exports dropped from 45% to 37% due mainly to the
markedly increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, agriculture still
provides 75% of non-oil exports, employs 60-66% of the total labor force
(depending on the season), and is the major source of income for about
two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban households; it
accounted for 46% of incremental employment during 1971-76. Outside Java,
employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising, given the
sustained increases in the smallholder area, including that developed by
publicly sponsored and spontaneous transmigration. On Java continued
irrigation rehabilitation is expected to generate significant employment.
27.       Food Crops.  GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of
rice, the preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice
production increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to
irrigation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of
fertilizer and high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the GOI
rice intensification schemes. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a.
over 1974-77, in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to
restrictions on private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of
untimely rainfall, and unprecendented attacks by pests and diseases. Since
then, rice production has increased substantially, reaching an estimated total
in 1980 of 20 million tons, about 2.5 million tons more than the lean crop in
1977. Output of secondary foodcrops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and
sweet potatoes) grew at an average of 1.6% p.a. over the past decade. On
balance, the gains in food crop output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4.0%
p.a. increase in demand, stimulated by rising incomes. Over the decade,
Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a record import of
2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978, while wheat
imports reached 1.4 million tons in 1978. The (March 1979) Bank report,
"Indonesia: Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops," (No. 2374-IND) concluded
that even with expanded irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit
and marketing, food production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a
basic food deficit up to at least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 mil-
lion tons annually.
28.       Perennial Crops.  Perennial crops occupy about one-third of total
cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate about
43% of total non-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber
area and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper; tea and oil palm
are grown primarily on estates. Until recently, efforts to revitalize the
smallholder tree crop sector were limited. However, an approach begun in
1976, which has received increased emphasis by GOI, is for government-owned
estates to plant and maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land for
three years, using farmers selected to be settlers as employees, and there-



- 11 -
after to provide the settlers with inputs, extension services and processing
facilities. This is the approach supported by four previously Bank-financed
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) Projects (Loans 1499-, 1604-, 1751- and
1835-IND) as well as the proposed project. While the NES approach has been
mainly for new settlers, GOI has also initiated national programs to assist
existing smallholders to replant rubber or coconuts themselves, with fairly
intensive support from Project Management Units (PMUs). Efforts to design a
lower-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on management are
also starting. Given the vast area of over-aged and lowyielding smallholder
rubber and coconuts, the good market prospects and employment potential for
these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative
advantage in them, the rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using all
suitable approaches, is of high priority.
29.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated development projects
to address this problem.
30.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by management problems,
GOI reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring
implementation responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration
to the appropriate technical agencies and by creating coordinative bodies at
central, provincial and district levels, with a Junior Minister of
Transmigration in charge of coordination of the national program. These
measures need to be complemented by continued attention to a variety of
technical and policy questions. The Second Transmigration Project (Loan
1707-IND/Credit 919-IND) is attempting to address these issues.
31.       Bank Group Lending Strategy in Agriculture.  Since the first of 15
irrigation projects was approved in 1968, -the Bank Group has rapidly expanded
its agricultural lending. Within the context of GOI agricultural objectives
and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III, future Bank Group agricultural
lending is expected to focus on: (a) a diversified irrigation, food produc-
tion, drainage and swamp reclamation program to intensify cropping on Java and
extend water management in the Other Islands; (b) support services including
second phase projects for agricultural research, extension and seeds; (c)
smallholder tree crop planting programs; and (d) area development and
transmigration. This strategy will continue to be reviewed through sector
work. Analyses of employment and income distribution, irrigation,
agricultural support services and food crop production and transmigration have
been completed, and reviews of the rubber subsector, secondary food crops,



- 12 -
land tenure and supply and demand for technical and managerial manpower for
agriculture are underway.
Rubber, Palm Oil and Coconut Subsectors
32.       Rubber Subsector.  Indonesia is the world's second largest producer
of natural rubber after Malaysia, with a 1977/78 production of about 800,000
tons and exports of 770,000 tons. Rubber comprised 6% of Indonesia's total
agricultural GDP, 7% of export earnings and 16% of non-oil exports in 1977,
and provides full-time employment for two million people and part-time
employment for an additional 6-8 million. Smallholder production accounts for
about two-thirds of total output and is concentrated on Sumatra (70%) and
Kalimantan (19%). Holdings average about 1.5 ha, and yields 300 kg/ha. The
recent declining trend in smallholder production is explained partly by a
temporary reduction in tapping intensity due to low prices in the past, and
partly by the advanced age of plantings, with an estimated 75% being older
than 30 years. In the absence of major planting programs, the declining trend
in smallholder production would continue. There is a well-established estate
rubber sector of 455,000 ha comprised of government estates (200,000 ha),
private national estates (182,000 ha), and private foreign estates (73,000
ha). Total estate production in 1977 was 250,000 tons (65% from Sumatra, 30%
from Java and 5% from Kalimantan). While the total estate rubber area is
expected to decline to 315,000 ha by 1990, yield increases are expected to
result in production increase to 340,000 tons.
33.       The forecast of a substantial decrease in future smallholder rubber
production has stimulated GOI to expand rubber replanting and new rubber
planting programs which focus on smallholder development, and are aimed at
raising existing holdings' productivity, and assisting poor and landless
families to clear and plant new rubber. In 1978, GOI initiated a large-scale
program for smallholder rubber replanting which a new national Rubber Replant-
ing Unit in the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) would implement. Annual
targets were 10,000 ha in 1978/79; 30,000 ha in 1979/80, and about 50,000 ha
thereafter to complete 300,000 ha by 1984/85. However, because of the organi-
zational and administrative constraints facing the program, a more realistic
goal for the seven-year period would be 150-180,000 ha.   The Smallholder
Rubber Development Project (Credit 984-IND) involves the replanting of about
38,500 ha. GOI has also proposed an enlarged NES program in rubber.
34.       Palm Oil Subsector.   Producing 568,000 tons of palm oil and 115,600
tons of palm kernels in 1979, Indonesia is the world's second largest palm oil
producer after Malaysia. Palm oil is Indonesia's fourth largest agricultural
export commodity after timber, rubber and coffee and comprises 2% of total
agricultural GDP and 7% of all non-oil export earnings. Public sector estates
account for about 70% of both the total area and production, and private
estates for most of the remainder. Smallholders own only about 1,000 ha, or
less than 1%, of the mature oil palm stands, mainly because they are unable to
process palm oil, and have no access to planting material or the technical
expertise for fruit collection or processing.



- 13 -
35.       Faced with a growing domestic demand for fats and oils and concur-
rent declining domestic coconut oil production, GOI is committed to rapidly
expanding palm oil production to offset imports of coconut oil, while also
maintaining palm oil exports. Considering the planned oil palm plantings,
total palm oil and palm kernel oil production could grow at 9% annually from
1979 to 1990, and reach 1.8 million tons by 1990.  Over the same period,
domestic consumption is expected to average about 50% of production.
36.       Coconut Subsector.  The Indonesian coconut industry, second only to
the Philippines, is dominated by smallholders. Coconuts are produced mainly
as a sole crop in the Other Islands and in conjunction with other crops in
Java. In 1975 an estimated 2.4 million ha (including 0.6 million ha of
immature trees) were under coconuts, and production was 1.5 million tons copra
equivalent (CE). The overall average yield is 0.8 tons/ha. Sulawesi, with
21% of the coconut area, accounted for 30% of output, while Java, with 31% of
area produced 24%.  Sumatra was third with 26% of area and 22% of production.
Average provincial yields ranged from 1.4 tons CE per ha in Central Sulawesi
and Maluku to 0.5 tons CE per ha in Irian Jaya and West Java. The large local
demand for coconut products is mainly for cooking oil or fresh consumption.
Although Indonesian exports accounted for about 16% of world copra and coconut
oil exports in the late 1960s, current production is inadequate to meet
domestic consumption. Since 1977, the country had to import coconut oil
and/or substitute other oils to meet the rising demand. The 1978 shortfall of
coconut oil is estimated at 360,000 tons CE, and this is forecast to rise to
about 700,000 tons CE by 1985. There are several constraints to the growth of
the coconut subsector. Although Indonesia has good genetic coconut stock, it
is only recently that improved planting material has been developed. Poor
crop management and the absence of a credit/grant package for inputs depressed
yields. Smallholder replanting is usually makeshift, and copra processing at
farm level is generally poor. Although marketing functions satisfactorily,
even in remote areas, there is little quality control and the pricing system
offers little incentives for improved quality.
37.       Coconuts development has high priority in GOI's plans.  During
Repelita III, GOI plans to assist the planting/replanting of some 310,000 ha
of coconuts, 83,000 ha with hybrid varieties, and the balance with local tall
varieties, and to rehabilitate 75,000 ha. Plans for the next 15 years are to
plant/replant more than a million ha, with high-yielding material, and
rehabilitate a similar area. GOI's present strategy is to concentrate on
increasing smallholder production, and to assist processing and agroindustrial
development. The Smallholder Coconut Development Project (Loan 1898-IND) will
plant/replant or develop some 41,200 ha of coconuts, and rehabilitate another
38,000 ha.
38.       Bank Group Lending in the Rubber, Palm Oil and Coconut Subsectors.
In the rubber, oil palm and coconut subsectors, the Bank Group has assisted
GOI with 11 projects. These include three Agricultural Estates Projects
(Credits 155, 194 and 319-IND); four NES Projects (Loans 1499, 1604, 1751 and
1835-IND); three Smallholder Projects (Credits 358 and 984-IND and Loan 1898-
IND) and one Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).



- 14 -
The earlier Agricultural Estate projects assist only public sector estates,
while the later Transmigration and NES projects are primarily for
smallholders. In total, all these projects would plant, replant, grow from
immaturity to maturity, or rehabilitate some 256,000 ha of rubber, 133,000 ht
of oil palm, and 83,000 ha of coconuts. Out of this, the smallholders would
eventually operate some 45% of the rubber, 8% of the oil palm, and 95% of the
coconut areas. While most of these projects had slow start-ups and other
initial problems, their implementation is now generally satisfactory. The
most important general development has been the broadly based improvements in
estate performance - most project estates are now highly profitable. The
project performance audits for the recently completed Credits 155 and 194-IND
rated both projects successful with impressive economic rates of return.
39.       Since November 1977, the Bank Group has helped finance the four NES
projects.  The first three NES projects are sufficiently advanced to assess
their effectiveness. Initially, delays in budget preparation and receipt of
funds by the nucleus estates slowed implementation. To resolve this, GOI
simplified financial procedures with automatic quarterly releases of funds to
the nucleus estates.  Smallholder and estate plantings are now on schedule,
with the planting or rehabilitation of about 44,000 ha of rubber, 9,700 ha of
oil palm and 3,200 ha of coconuts. Field development is good. The con-
struction of smallholder infrastructure, however, has been less satisfactory
and the movement of smallholders to the project areas is behind schedule. NES
III and IV initiated several changes in project design and organization. The
nucleus estates now have greater autonomy in designing and implementing the
smallholder components. The DGE has established a special team for externally
assisted projects (Team Khusus) to assist the nucleus estates, particularly
with coordinating agencies engaged in project works. In addition, NES IV
includes start-up funds which would help ensure early implementation of NES
V's preparatory works for the West Java component, such as nursery establish-
ment, access roads, and laborer housing. While these changes have consider-
ably helped project implementation, Team Khusus still needs strengthening to
expand and upgrade its project formulation, design and supervision activities.
The proposed project will strengthen Team Khusus through providing consultant
services and training as required.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project was identified by GOI with Bank assistance, and reflects
the national needs and priorities outlined in the Repelita III. GOI and the
Bank prepared the project, using feasibility studies undertaken by the Marihat
Research Station, PNP VII, PTP XXIII,/l and several consultant firms.
/1  PNP (Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan) and PTP (Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan)
are state-owned estate enterprises which oversee estate development and
operations.  In total there are presently 27 in operation in Indonesia.
The only significant difference between the two organizations is in their
legal structure; PTP has provisions for limited liability.



- 15 -
Appraisal took place in October 1980, and a Staff Appraisal Report (No.
3342-IND) is being distributed separately.  Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1981 and
the Indonesian delegation was led by General Pang Soeparto, the Director
General of DGE.
Objectives and General Description
41.       The project's main objectives would be (a) to resettle some 19,800
local families in West Java and West Kalimantan, with the intention of
improving their livelihoods through tree crops, food crops and home garden
development; (b) to undertake estate development in Bengkulu which would
permit smallholder participation in subsequent projects; (c) to increase
domestic production of rubber, palm oil and coconuts with a view to export
expansion/ import substitution; and (d) to promote institutional development
in the estate sector through staff training and techical assistance. The
project would be located in three provinces, encompassing seven sites with a
total gross area of about 79,000 ha: West Java (five sites with almost
42,500 ha); West Kalimantan (one site of 30,000 ha) and Bengkulu (one site of
6,300 ha). The project would have the following major components:
A. Smallholder development:
(a) Approximately 1.5 ha of tree crops per smallholder in West Java, and
2.0 ha in West Kalimantan would be developed under the project,
totalling 3,700 ha rubber, 8,000 ha oil palm and 6,700 ha coconut
plantings in the PTP XI area, 3,000 ha coconut plantings in the PTP
XIII area and 11,000 ha oil palm plantings in the PNP VII area;
(b) an initial subsistence allowance and subsequent development of food
crop areas and house gardens (0.5 ha per smallholder) including an
initial package of seeds and other inputs either in kind or through
an initial cash payment; and
(c) smallholder housing, water supply and village infrastructure
and road construction.
B. Estate development:
(a) establishment of 4,000 ha oil palm area and a 180 ha seed garden for
coconuts in the PTP XI area (West Java), 700 ha coconut area in the
PTP XIII area (West Java), and 3,500 ha oil palm area in the PNP VII
area (West Kalimantan);
(b) 5,000 ha rubber plantings in the PTP XXIII area (Bengkulu) to enable
this estate to assume the role of a nucleus estate at a later time;
(c) related infrastructure including estate housing, buildings
and roads; and



- 16 -
(d) processing facilities.
C.   Technical assistance and program support:
(a)  consultants  services to assist the various estates;
(b)  consultants  services and training for Team Khusus to strengthen its
overall capacity to implement this and future projects and
identify/prepare future projects;
(c) expansion of the Estate Training Institute (LPP) at Jogjakarta in
Java, the establishment of a LPP at Medan in North Sumatra, and LPP
subcenters at various PNPs/PTPs in Java and Sumatra to train field
staff; and
(d) funds for start-up activities for future Bank-assisted estate
smallholder projects.
Project Implementation
42.       Arrangements for project organization and management are outlined in
Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement. Under the proposed project DGE would
have overall responsibility for project execution. DGE, located in the
Ministry of Agriculture, regulates all private estates and smallholdings
involving tree and industrial crops. It is also responsible for the super-
vision of the public estates (PNPs and PTPs), when they are used as agents for
smallholder development (as in this project). As noted above (para. 39), to
reduce the work strain on DGE placed by the increasing number of investments
for which it is responsible, Team Khusus was established. Under the project,
Team Khusus would coordinate implementation, providing assistance to
participating PNP/PTPs in the preparation of annual work programs and budgets,
financial administration, and technical, engineering and procurement guidance.
In addition, it would carry out monitoring and evaluation. To assist Team
Khusus in undertaking these tasks as well as preparation of future projects
agreement was reached that DGE would recruit consultants for tree crop
production and processing, village layout, financial administration, and for
land surveys on terms and conditions and in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 and the Annex to Schedule 2 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
43.       Participating PNP/PTPs would be responsible for all project work.
The first directors of the participating PNP/PTPs would be project managers;
they would appoint site managers for the individual sites. It was agreed
that the project managers, assisted by the Team Khusus, would prepare and
submit annual work programs and budgets by October 31 each year (Section 3.04
of the draft Loan Agreement). The program would include investments in pro-
ject items to be financed from public works programs (health and education
facilities).



- 17 -
44.       The nucleus estates to be developed by PTP XI, PTP XIII and PNP VII
would have full authority to establish smallholdings, infrastructure, roads
and processing facilities. DGE would conclude with the nucleus estates
Smallholder Development Agreements to specify all works to be carried out for
tree crop development, processing and marketing services as well as their
responsibilities in land clearing for house and food crop areas, the provision
of initial subsistence funds, the support services for food crops and needed
infrastructure and various other responsibilities to participating smallhol-
ders (Section 3.03(b) and Schedule 6 of the draft Loan Agreement). The sign-
ing of such an agreement satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of disburse-
ment for the smallholder component of the project (Schedule 1, para. 4(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). PTP XXIII would undertake all project works for
its portion of the project. To assist them in the activities these estates
require technical strengthening in various areas. Agreement was reached that
consultants would be hired on terms and conditions and according to schedules
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 and the Annex to Schedule 2 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
45.       The provincial governments of West Java and West Kalimantan would
provide health, education, social and food crops extension services to the
smallholders, including the construction of health and education facilities
through GOI's public works programs. In these provinces Provincial Coordi-
nating Committees have been established to: undertake construction of GOI's
public works programs facilities; select, together with the project managers,
participating smallholders; expedite the issuing of land use rights and land
titles to smallholders; and ensure adequate food crop extension services.
46.       The LPP component would be overseen by the relevant institute under
the general guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture and SBPN (Estate
Administration and Support Staff). Agreement has been reached that a Board of
Trustees for the LPPs would be established by October 31, 1981 and that
adequate staff would be appointed by January 31, 1982 (Section 3.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs
47.       Total project cost is estimated at $322 million (Rp 201 billion),
with a foreign exchange component of $161 million (50%). Taxes are not
included due to the tax-exempt status of the implementing agencies. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 15% for housing, infrastructure and roads and
10% for field development, services, equipment and supplies. Price
contingencies for domestic costs amount to 18% for 1981, 15% for 1982, and 10%
annually thereafter; for foreign exchange costs the relevant annual contin-
gencies are 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982, 7% for 1983 and 1984, and 6% for 1985
and 1986. Consultant service costs are based on recent contracts for similar
services in Indonesia. Estimated direct and reimbursable costs are
$10,000/man-month for foreign consultants and $2,500/man-month for local
consultants.



- 18 -
Project Financing
48.       The proposed Bank loan of $161 million would finance the project',
estimated foreign exchange component. The remaining project costs would be
financed by GOI ($140 million) and PTP XI, PNP VII and PTP XXIII ($21 mil-
lion). GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
49.       Financing arrangements for smallholder investments are outlined in
Schedule 8 of the draft Loan Agreement. Works to be carried out by the
nucleus estates for smallholders would be divided into credit items (i.e.,
those repayable by smallholders including on-farm development and settler
housing) and noncredit items (i.e., those not repayable including water
supply, village infrastructure). The costs of development of smallholder
credit items would be translated into standardized credit amounts for
individual settlers in credit agreements at the end of the third year after
planting. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Indonesia's major rural credit
institution, would be the handling bank to recover smallholders' outstanding
debts for GOI; GOI would assume all risks (para. 7 of Schedule 8 of the draft
Loan Agreement). A handling fee, to be agreed between GOI and BRI, would be
paid by GOI on the aggregate amounts outstanding under the Smallholder Credit
Agreements. Beginning from the date of the agreements between BRI and
smallholders, subloans would be for 17 years, with a two-year grace period for
oil palm and coconuts, and a three-year grace period for rubber; interest
would be 10.5% p.a. (Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
interest rate charged is the standard rate fixed by Bank Indonesia.
Inflation, which in 1982 is projected at 12%, is expected to fall to an annual
rate of about 10% thereafter and it is therefore anticipated that the interest
rate charged will not be significantly negative in real terms.  Funds for
noncredit items would be financed through GOI through the budget. Schools and
health facilities would be provided by provincial government agencies on a
noncredit basis and would be financed through GOI's public works program.
50.       Funds for estate development would be onlent by GOI to the partici-
pating estates under the terms of subsidary loan agreements.  These loans
would be for 13 years, including a seven-year grace period. Interest rates
would be 13.5% p.a. payable from the date of signing of the subsidary loan
agreement (Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
signing of such an agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
disbursement for the particular nucleus estate development component involved
(Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
51.       Most agrochemicals (except urea), agricultural machinery, road
construction equipment, and processing plant ($74.5 million) would be procured
through ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference of 15% of the
c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. To the extent



- 19 -
possible, DGE would centrally procure road construction equipment and agri-
cultural machinery for the estates, minimizing the number of contracts.
Exceptions to ICB would include prudent shopping for start-up machinery for
road construction in order to facilitate initial implementation. In addition,
equipment, spareparts and supplies costing less than $50,000 and up to
$6.0 million aggregate could be procured through prudent shopping based on at
least three quotations. Urea purchase would be made directly from P.T. PUSRI
(or its authorized distributors), the country's sole supplier whose price is
considerably below world market levels. Civil works contracts for housing,
infrastructure and processing facilities ($75.2 million) which are small and
widely scattered and thus unlikely to attract international contractors, would
be awarded by local competitive bidding procedures, or by force account. GOI
would: (a) prepare adequate specifications to permit bid comparison; (b) form
suitable contract groupings of at least $320,000 wherever feasible; and (c)
submit to the Bank for review, prior to tendering and award, documents for
local contracts of $320,000 or more. Contracts for consultants' services
($4.7 million) would be awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Disbursements
52.       Disbursements would be made as follows:  (a) 35% of tree crop deve-
lopment expenditures as certified in quarterly reports provided by the PNP/PTPs
to DGE; (b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for agrochemicals or 90% of local
expenditures, and 100% of the total cost of urea (ex-factory); (c) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of agricultural and processing machinery and equipment,
95% of the exfactory cost of equipment manufactured locally and 60% of
imported farm equipment purchased locally; (d) 35% of civil works costs
including roads, smallholder and estate housing, workshops, and ancillary
buildings; and (e) 100% of the cost of consultant services and training, and
start-up expenditures for future Bank-assisted NES projects. The Bank would
not disburse for vehicles and motorcycles. Documentation supporting claims
for rubber, oil palm and coconut development expenditures, including overheads
not submitted for reimbursement, would be retained in Indonesia and made
available for inspection and review by Bank supervision missions.
Accounts and Audits
53.       The participating PNPIPTPs would keep separate accounts for all
investments costs relating to smallholder and nucleus estate development under
the project (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The participating
PNP/PTPs are presently audited by private certified public accountant firms.
Assurances have been obtained from GOI that all NES V project accounts and
related disbursements made under statements of expenditure would be audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports submitted
to DGE and the Bank no later than August 1 of each year (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Agricultural Production and Marketing
54.       The project would establish 45,800 ha of tree crops (8,700 ha
rubber; 26,500 ha oil palm and 10,600 ha coconuts), 4,410 ha food crops and
2,940 ha house gardens. At full production the additional tree crops and
outputs would be 16,500 tons of rubber, 493,500 tons of oil palm fresh fruit
bunches and 42,500 tons of copra. Additional production of corn and upland
rice, the most important food crops, would amount to about 4,400 and 1,400
tons, respectively.
55.       In the case of rubber and copra, the smallholders would be required
to sell a large enough amount of their production through the nucleus estate
to meet their debt repayment schedule. In the case of oil palm, the
smallholders would sell their entire production to the estate as there are no
alternative processing facilities. To ensure the smallholders have a constant
cash flow for their production, an assurance was obtained from GOI that the
nucleus estates would pay them weekly during harvesting periods (Schedule 6,
para. 10 of the draft Loan Agreement). Food crop production would be mainly
for on-farm consumption, but surpluses of peanuts and house garden products
such as coffee or cloves should be easily marketable in nearby towns.
Financial Analysis
56.       Future farm incomes without the project would range from $230 to
$610, corresponding to $46 and $120, respectively, per capita. With the
project it is expected that the livelihood of the smallholders involved will
be much improved: family incomes would reach at least $1,800 by year 10, $360
per capita. This would constitute a significant improvement in the relative
income position of these families, from 11-30% of per-capita GNP at present to
60% in 1991.
57.       The estates, following procedures established under the earlier NES
projects, would recover the smallholder credits by partially retaining the
sales revenues of the crops they would process and market on their behalf.
The estates would establish committees, including smallholder representatives,
which would meet montly to set the price for the smallholder's produce, net
of taxes, depreciation, processing and marketing costs, and management fees
(Schedule 6, para. (11) of the draft Loan Agreement). The estates would
deduct from the individual smallholder sales revenues an amount sufficient
to repay the annual loan installment. They would transfer all cost recovery
to BRI which would keep a record of all individual smallholder accounts.
Besides repaying all credit development items, smallholders would pay a land
tax, which village heads would collect and turn over to local and provincial
administrations for providing public services. This tax can be considered a
direct project tax which contributes towards the operational costs of the
governmental agencies involved in the villages. Estimated cost recovery
indices vary from 78% to 89% for the smallholder developments.



- 21 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
58.       Apart from the creation of physical assets, the project would
provide a livelihood for 19,800 smallholder families and employment oppor-
tunities for 4,200 estate worker families and for another 7,500 families
working in other sectors linked to the project. The base cost for settling a
smallholder family would vary from $4,100 (rubber) to $6,400 (oil palm). The
overall economic rate of return is expected at 16%. The expected individual
economic rates of return would vary from 13%to 18% for the six smallholder
developments and from 14% to 19% for the four estate developments. These
economic rates of return would be reduced by 2-3% in case of a 20% increase
in construction costs or a 20% decrease in the commodity prices, and by 1-2%
in case of a one year lag in the commencement of project benefits.
59.       There are no unusual technical risks for the proposed project since
it can draw from the experience of previous NES projects. The delegation of
more authority to nucleus estates and the appointment of the PNP/PTP first
director as project manager has proved in NES IV an effective measure to
improve project management and expedite implementation. Remaining short-
comings in specific areas of technical expertise would be met through recruit-
ment of international and domestic consultants. There also are risks in
ensuring repayment for smallholder investments - it is important that small-
holder crops be channelled through the relevant nucleus estates. Again the
strengthening of the estates should help. On balance, the risks associated
with the proposed project are judged acceptable.
60.       Most of the areas earmarked for development under the proposed pro-
ject are presently covered by secondary forest and coarse grass and conse-
quently are not used to their potential. Soil conservation methods would
prevent soil erosion, and leguminous cover crops, proper fertilizer applica-
tions and crop rotation would enhance soil fertility. The small quantities of
herbicides and pesticides to be used would not lead to significant adverse
consequences for the environment. Processing facilities would follow the
appropriate standards for effluent treatment to remove potential environmental
and health hazards.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loa
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                   Page l of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED ALSRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2027.1                                 MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     292.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  80.0       130.0    380.0                 212.4                1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0       120.0    278.0                 166.0                 842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     94.7       117.6    136.0
URBAN POPULtATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6       17.1      19.5                 20.8                  39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     204.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       350.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       47.0        58.0      67.0                193.2                 376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0      419.0      465.0                409.6                2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YSRS.                        40.8        44.0      41.0                 42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.1       53.5      56.0                  55.0                  56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1         2.5       3.0                  3.0                   3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.2       1.8                  2.2                   2.4
URBAN                              3.8         3.8       3.5                  3.9                   4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0         43.0      37.0                 37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0        18.0      17,0                 14.6                   7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         3.2       2.4                  2.6                   1.9
FAHSILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        181.1   2246.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          0.2      19.0*                15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          93.0       102.0    107.0                 101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   89.0        92.0     105.0                 92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          41.0        41.0      47.0                 49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        6.0         6.0       6.0                 12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     31.0        22.0      20.0                 17.9                   5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   41.0        46.0       47.0                 50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       126.0       ..                   *-                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0      12.0                 30.2                  42.4
URBAN                               *-       10.0      35.0                  66.0                 62.1
RURAL                              ..          1.0      6.0                  20.0                  29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0      15.0                 17.7                  52.8
URBAN                               *-        50.0      60.0                 71.3                  71.1
RURAL                               ..        4.0        5.0                  ..                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         41000.0/c  26830.0  14580.0                6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      8010.0   2818.0               9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0      1530.0   1578.0                1758.4                 819.4
URBAN                               *-      1090.0
RURAL                              ..       1670.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..       22.4                  ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8
UJRBAN                             4.9        5.3
RURAL                              4.3        4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.5
URBAN                               *          1.6
RURAL                               *          1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
* Estimate for 1979 is 27%.



- 24 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A /ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMEN- RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  71.0         78.0       86.0                80.9                    98.6
MALE                  86.0         83.0       91.0                 94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                58.0         73.0       81.0                66.7                    97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0         16.0       21.0                26.6                    55.5
MALE                  10.0         21.0       25.0                34.8                    60.7
FEMALE                 3.0         11.0       17.0                 18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  20.0           22.0       21.0                  9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         29.0       30.0                41,1                    34.6
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0       18.3                 20.5                   28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          39.0        57.0       62.0                 40.9                    85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2.0        3.6                  1.8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         21.0       37.0                 25.8                  118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1          0.8        2.3                  2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAtND POPULATIOt                    ..           ..       16.0                 13.4
CINEMIA ANNUAL ATTEtlDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        0.9                   ..                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34752.5        41547.3   48610.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.9         31.0       29.0                29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.8         66.3       60.1                 70.5                   51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.4          9.7       11.0                11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.7         35.3       34.6                 37.9                    39.1
MALE                                   54.2         49.5      48.6                 51.3                    48.5
FEtMALE                                20.0        21.6       20.8                 23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3        1.2                 1.2                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        33.7/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.07         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.87         .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        17.37         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      150.0/e              107.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..      107. U7T              86.5                  192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      145.O/e
RURAL                                  ..          ..       98.07W                  *                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       59.0                46.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       65.0                 51.7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
amon.g the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and far Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  Id Income recipients;  /e 1980.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL -INDICATORSS
Notes:  Although the data or  dose  form  .an..en generaly judged the east  uthoetaivei and relIable. St should also be noted that they nay not be inter-
nationall1y.creparala heru-  of th   ac   f nadaedteed defi.nltloe   and  -onaPtsused hy doff-eret cutfsto eotlf-ting the data.  The d.ta see,ena
th.lena  uefl  to1 donolibe urdera of  oge-tode, lod-trat  trends, and   er -toeecetin naj_r diffnele-es he--eno--irne
The reeeneIIueo    1  lhb  toe   --,tr  gr-u  of the nuh) eat  -ootoy end (2) nrou-ttoy ge-P with eoneebnt higher ore.esg  inlrne than the reentry group
ofth fnhit   cutiy europ  0~ toe -Caytto  gurlualI   Souer'gos   hr   ttdl   on    orhArc     Middle E.taa"tshaehtan    ftog
soslo-culiurl affleliita  .Si..thehreeere.oc grou  dale thevrae  ero popaltius wetghted a-ithsieti            o  fT to eth iedietatr and  h-te  ealy when at
beat half of the coutries it a ge-p haa deta for ohat ledictr                 tr  th .teag  of Icuooes .nn  the indtraeoa depeod. oo the  vlbeilityof
date aod in to  Iofun,rcto    ut ho onertised ie olattiogaegs of one ind-tce- t.o  othee.  Th sn aveage  are only asetu  So oaarig the vlue.
of oa  indiator- ataline ang th. couOsty ad ragerente groups.
L.5ND ~ARA Inhousaud nq.e)                                                                    ftpoletien per PhYsiotan - fopalatea  divided.bY egegr e  peutolgpep-
Total - Totalaulceaea copl Iagad a-ta end telend -atter.sirtns qulified fr to  . mdlaeI.ehau  at untvraitpeeh
AOsrlcul-rl - tEtl eo   giustlae   sdtem tpora Iatprnely                                    Potulettun oe- tcis  aro  -Poalttandivided by narher af pes-stotg
for ...pa P.  sr, P.     the  a         d hithsgodn   et  l"ie gallon; 1977 dana.           mal  end feaegadaenres   ronolnrs.   n  asaes   as.
Onnl2 lepe  Esotl Ned - tatl. nobe. end torel - Pepolasten  (total,
00000  CPOe  IS) GNIP pOt capita eoioa   t cu-rot matkt prioen, as)-                      ura.ndatl  divided by theio resPeotive ember fg haspit.l beds
calated hy aoe c-vosloe  ethud no Wr-ld Bask Atlan  (1977-79 basin); 1960,                    syeilbhle in public and ptoate general and epetisltend bespite1 sed es-
l970. aod  1979 data..hbilitstloa renters.  Nospitsls gte estshlitoseets Psemasely stalled
by at lesne One physioton. Natablisbe..nte providigg prtsetpaslly -tatdial
ENERGY COSUMIPTION PER CAPITA -Ana   onat                 f.c..rca   enrgyba                     tare nero-t  oleolded.  RIuen  hospitals, howvr, lerlade h_lt  ad medina1
ead ligeite. petroletan  ootur-l gased hydro-,  uteaqro-d geotherma  elec-                     -et-e  ea t Permanently crafted by e physlicia  (bat hy a mediei at al.taet.
tr icity) it kilugram   of coal equivalent Per .a.Pita; 190   970, aad 19780                  ters, nldeife, oti.) ehith ofler te-patitee   tondtteed proltie 
data,                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of medital f-silittes.  Par statitietea  panpoe  aebe heept-
eels i olude WHOs prino1pa1 general and speotelisd haepitsla. end trusl
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS                                        ~~~~~~hepittela Il..nI or eura1 hospital.soed medical and matrmity teeters
Total PeculaonMi-er(lit)- An of July 1; 1960. 1970, and 1970                                Adnisaian  Ne- opiaBed - Total aenher ofed              tsin   torn disabeegee
dar.From hospitals dioided hy the nasihe  of beds.
OrSon Pualatoo  potentc   totl.   Netllof el  tha  to total popalani.o;
differeet defiaftloe   ofueh saen may af oo  cnpraility of data                         HOUSNGO
amacatties; 1960. 197f, so  lNd       ss.Ave..ege ties of HO.as oald (Persons per household) - totsl. urban, and                                                       l
Popolatioo Pro-ei-teos                                                                         A ho..eehaId  -nints of a group of individualn  h.e shre livin   peetar
Pooltioa in year 2000 - Currooi popuIatiue proisotions are based onIN  nd.fhe0tr  anaas        ore   0lde   a   rmpnnheitolnedi
totlpplte    y          fordse   o  termoeht  aderltp te.                                the hoan.ehold for statistical parposese.
Projeceto  psramreos_ ltg mertlity rates otapeise of theec  level  asun                 horaetahr of --ronspe Pero-2- etol . uhn  end ruarl - Averege  te
te   if    oecac  a   lohtrraisthbroorygehcptem ro of persons pee roa, o   i uthb_   n eurs  or-upied oeato
lee,adfemale life eaporteaty  tbhileinig  at 77.1 yeses.  T'heIae-                      delings, tepeotive1y.  D..lliegs.  - ude  nepema                    -t srsre.soad
aetern f or fertilit7 t-ta also have three levels e atg   eoin  ie                         ecaidprn
fert ility oc-ordisg to ioost 1evaf.ed pest family planing pnefotenca                   Ace,s noIec cty  (eon   ldelue   tstel, aebs. and _mel -
Eah icunry in ihnasige  on   fthe. ne aCn  ronhintions of mcts1ltf                     C-eve-iEnel deiNgs  ,oith  letetit pia  tve                            -.rtr .I erettg
codfaraliy tead  to  poo0ectien purposes..grth   .                                  of total, urhan, andr coral d-elliege  -epectlvnilp
the hirih rat  is equal Io L he death -tat, end also the see -stornr  e-    EDUCATION
melon   . oatant.  This is achieved only alter feotility eatma dnnline t5               Adjlunted E-11lmet Ratios
iho replac-neat I"e1 of unit oat teprod-tue-u  rate. whe .ea..  genertion                 Pimo  nbI-tota,  al  nod femle-Se..s total, male and feels
ofemnreplace  itnlfn tly.  The atatit..any popolanionse    aserlanto   llee   t the peisasy levl a  p-eeetages og rape-ttee
aeti=atd 00 she basis of the prajeoted  hornrt-riatioe of the popltiae                      Peimrynoblag  pooaion;semlpIntdeoidsegd -l
is the peer 2000,ed th   ae  fdoine of f-etiltip rane to replaae                            years but adjuse   o  difre   agths of primary  dedantien; for
mat leve.                                                                                  coutrien           d n fivre  ednffnoiot  enI Letmynoe    0   ee
Yn-  seieaary  epuletmow  in r.enhad - The year eb-  stationary populntos                      atae. som  papila nra. beo   or. above the oftfiyoinl  sahoo  nge.
Pouerf.oak.. Deaidty -   .u.i.p.q..klo. 10h.                                 )o                 .dnoation requires nt leas.t lout peer  of npp ruvad primary instruotton;
Pra. Io.-Md-eupulto    pe-qeeblnsr10   etea   fpnid.s geate..r.                                                     ine,or te..eher trsioig iontrestt..s far pspt3b
total aro-a.                                                                          usua.b-  fr   IilorI  ..  ..lly of 12 to 17 ynata of aga; tetreepondeete  oat fees. are g rlly
OOIT.                                                                                     Vo...tio..eI enrolletCotat   ofseodary) - Vo.tatlene  institatien
Popaletian Age Nit...toro (Perre..t  - Children  I0-lA  years). wooing-egs (15-                  inoluda teohioal.tduei,orthr program   ehio  speesta ind.p
"iyas) n  reti ed (hI yer.soad over) as percentges o  aid-pes  popa-                     dntly or as depeotosets ef  et.ondaty inst'tutinns
aio;1960, 1970, aed 1970 deta.                                                          Pupul-teehrrtn-efay   n   eodnr-Itlseet   noldi
Pgpuletiio  irmeth Rate  ptea)-total - Annual ge-bt reten of total mid-                          primary         ti an -aodry levelsodtv..d.d.hy  -umbeos o  taneher  ier ths i
yer  eolton    oe1506, 19h1-7h, end 1970-70                                            aerr-poding Jaoes.
Pepaletioo Oroeth gate lPerce..s) - nrhb- - Annua  g-twh rates of uebn ptpn-                   Adao  itEr'oveete  loarcen.t) _-Literate adaIts (able to rmad end write)
latio.s fo r 19511-60, t960-7f, end 19,70-78.                                                    taatneg.fttladl   ooate    e   Iparin   we
Crud  BirthRaepethund- Annual Ilve hieths per thoasend of nid-peer                                       - tg.ott1dutpp.togd1  yr    d
peaooo  ;100. 197g'. and l9IN data.                                               CONSIMPTIOK
Ceude Bath Rat  (perthonne) - A.Oeou   desthe per choa..nd o    i-er                         P.....g. .Get  leer  bnusd p.opulanlo) - P,aegror   rnipes  masse
population  1960, 1970, and 1976 date,or   maigls  te   ihtproe  oeue                                                                           reblne,  hesesp         e
bass. Nepooriu   Nate-Aerge onber of daughteesawona  will beer in                                 lsayvhitln
hernra  reprd_itire Period if ehee.parCaoe  Presen.t ags-ap-ifi tofme-                    Radi  Rayiet  (per thousand  oolool- All types ofreeierfBor seAt
tility reona; ...telly five-yost a--g-a e-ding is lOh0, 1970, sod 1977.                     hodat   egoelPuhbi  per thousn  of  popletien,; -emldec -ni-
_ 1it  Plenatee - Ah...pters.  hoatua1 (tho....ada) - annua  anbhr of .eOptOt.radreevo.n  osee  en.n  er-wa.assrtidn  set  sew
ef bth.r.b-.etrlUdeviro  une   upic-  of attoseOsi_ly planning proga.                      we  in eff_st; dI.taoe eeteent- yrae  my.r aethe coepsbtr   ti       ca mast
FanlyFIa-,i'-lset  (peret of _sritd wmn   -rPenetaga of maried                                 snuetries abolished li-eiag.
nume  of child-bheaing age (15-CA peers) who usbirtb-ctrt-l devites  to                    V  ..ecive.. lee  thousand popaletien  - TV re..oslver  foe broadnest to
all maried woe  ic sam  age groap.                                                           geelpabltoter        tean  papolatios; -enludes anlitansd TV  saee
FOOD AND NUTRITION ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in ..ostrien and is peers when, raginteetios of TV sets wa  in  ffleen.
led- o  F.   1,,  ,rCepit~llp6%dller") -lode.of Pe  e.  tNeesosper Cireulatien (pertahsad popalatios) - Sh-e the avrage elm.nlar
prodocinofalfodasotiies.Prodetio  e.oldes seed endpfee:d sad                                 li_ationdvtdpiarl   otnoin    ee                      es       pIt  sooadaredpb
taonrledr  ee Cnsn       iondtescvrprnrIoos(..suaon                                  to he "daily" if it epasa   es  fea   imsa ek
instead of sugeol whirh are edbeadroaauoan    eg   o fead                                 Cee   nulAtnae   e    ent   s   er-Bsdo  h   obr
tea ore  -tlded).  Aggregote peodurtioc of set h coustry is be..edCo iobet.. sol  daringdthe year, loladlPer   edn-i..ton   to . drv-in  ftea
natoal aerge  rourr &pIewihts; 1961-65, 1970, and 1070 dns.t.nod ksoh Id dot.igt.yI,iIdi8 .i4..      de-.i                                                        .
Pee espia su.pply o.fdalorPe   (r atof ranniemats)-Copted from
enargy equivalt of set f-md sapplie  ailble in   -tra y pee enpita,                   LAOR FRCEt
Pee day1.  A-eilnhl  supplies  -opeina domatie p-du-ties, impote les                    TtlLbrPrs(huad)-Ocnial.ctepras   nldn
_ant.ities used In food Pro..e..lig, adlse   indDrhton.eur-                               Nfinitioin is In vi.t.ne o trie.stet        t  -nrop-eble;1 160. 1970 netd
moto neIntimated hy Phi bened on pHysiologiea.. nede for anemI arti-                       1970 dete.
otyadheal th r...nidroing  euenntltompeTtatn, body woighs,ag;                       Pmae  eeoat         F-1Feal  laho   foote as peree.ntag  of tote1lbahe  tones.
aad eo  diasrihution of popu1laton, and a11-iog 10 perceot foe wa te et                 An te-lreprtn)eat) - Lnhor foree in Oseniog, foesetop, hnting and
house.hold levol; 1911-65  9190, aad 1977 det.                                             0biga  pratag  of stetl leher fore; 1960, 1070 and l978 deta.
Pe   aiasupply of erotetal~ (g-m  Per day) - Peoteit rontest of par apt             Isuf    v(aen)-Lhrfeet  nna,tnteotn   eaatrs
net supyo   oo   a   s.upply           ppyo   oofei0 eda   bove.  Re-                      end ele-tricity, ester and gee as p-etsntge of tote1 I           Ifu fo..s; 1960.
qairannafo   l  outin               bIehlhd b   SA peovid  for "ilemom                     1970 and 1970 data.t
a,llocot  of 60 gonn  of tote1 protein per day sod 2gras at animal ad                   Peeticirenton  ate  (esr-en   - total, male. and tEmaI. - Pertiaiptnin  or
.uIae protein, of whiob 10 gras should he animal p"otei.  These stand-                     -seivity rates ar   roued as total, male, end fem1l  labor toecr a
ads orelucr than those of 75 goon of teta1 protein nod 2   rso                           perc-tane  ofnoa,mled f=mle popoletino of aLln-nes es-p-tiv-ly;
t lprotein as -n  v gse  for the owold,.p p..p.sed by PA. in tRa Third                 1960, 1970, and 1975 data.  Thes.eare 1L0's Peetii patian sates .rellettia
Worl Puod So.r-y; 19h1-65, 1970 sud177dta..t.tr9I
Per sePita protait  upl --"    row  eimal et aI         Protein supply of fond de-           a te-neo  ftoar .tir of. th  poulton.ndlogtIenrad       fwes
no    0rn  eal  end puse  in grams par day;I.96-h.  190.                 1977. date.    Rounomie DPeeedeae- Ratio - Ratle of popaletten under 15 nad h5 sod oe
Cibldlae  1-h)   tonlity Rate (Pee th..n.nd) - AotuaI deatha Per 'thousan  in .                to  h   oa    brfe
age group 1-4, Yrar, to rhildoen in this age genp; fo atsea  developing toa-                    t ett1.brf..
tries data derived from lif e tehlls; l96l, 1970 and 1977 data..1910O01 DISTRIBUTIPON
PeroaeofPtivt  Incom   (both in  -neh and  hnd   - ..eoetvd by etahect
HELiH e oetnvtNnh(ee)-AeasnheoPer   flfarmiig                                                   5pret   ichest 20 peroent, poorest 10 p-eonet, sad poorest 40 pseoset
at hirth; 1960,1971 ansd 1978 date.
bafant MortalCty Rat  (pee, thousand) - Annoo1 deaths of infeset  aedeem  year   POVERTY TARGET GROfUPS
ofaeprthousad liebirths.                                                            EstiImatd AheuePoet   ntn    eel10   arcst)      es  adrrl
Arces  oSaeWae  (peto    o  roolnio)   ttil, urban, and rua-                   -N                bslt  poetIin                lev lCe thtUos$ leve ibe:lo atb 5 minima
Nober,of peplepI  (tote,  urban, ad  un)  wihresnbl  sete... to  sl                          ntitiomally adequate diet plue essential enn-f nod requiremets is not
nateonupply  lintludes treated nufcetaI re 00ctreated bus  -nontimated                       at. boale.
eator curb as that Ftnn proteted hotehles, spings, end .a-itery wells)a                    O tied RalatorPvryecn  Level (USpr$                      afa      ubmad  as
eecetao  o   heirrsetlveI fI ultens   IasauranIts             epublt                  coral esletive -poverty anom  level isoatad no srt                     prnapt
fIna.o.       aadotlone   o   or  ha20   eeslanaho-mpIepraalicm    f  heouty.  T1,ehn leva  is deoioed lens the eara1
osnanonhle  -eee  wul  inplp thet she bI...-f. or manhes of the hous ehold                     - Esm tedhou oara Nor Absolute. P  ovet lioone Leve  (nrrb          )- 
do nut hove to spend a disp-epurtio..to pert of the day io fetohing the                      anditl-Pret  fppl a   tban ned  -arl) who atm  "bsoat   ao
Aroes t  R"etaI hieeads      battens.ofIoa-uPsioo - tonal  urbanisn
rural  N-Sober of peuple (total, orhan, and rrl   eodh   nr
dsonasPersannag-  of the ir raeev  pousi .Eteree. di.-                                                               Es        soi ad Neoda1 Base Diviatne
Poa.  nay  inlde the _olletion  and ditpssel, wIth or wtth` It't""t'anhE-on,io Antlysis and Pe-jeotiee Bspaetmat
Of hman  -eorta end wate-eter hy water-boone            t- a os  r the n.e of                                                                         18
pitprivie.soad aimilar lcelto



-26-                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979 la                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    %          1960-65    1965-70    1970-75    1975-79
GNP at M4arket Prices          46,939  100.0           1.9          4.9         7.4         6.5
Gross Domestic Investment    11,069   23.6            3.3          11.5        18.3        10.5
Gross National Saving          12,362   26.3          5.8           5.1        20.3        20.3
Current Account Balance          1,293    2.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           14,742   31.4          1.5          7.8         9.2        11.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          11,331   24.1          0.2         10.9        22.1         14.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %         Mn_                    USS     X
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1      35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                       12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                       13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -         3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37,339  100.0       56.4   100.0           662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp billion)                             % of GDP
1978/79   1979/80                         1978    1979
Current Receipts                 4,266      6,697                         19.4    21.8
Current Expenditure               2,530     3,920                         11.5    12.8
Current Surplus                   1,736     T,777                          7.9      9.1
Capital Expenditures             2,473      3,889                         11.3    12.7
External Assistance (net)           739      1,114                         3.4      3.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979    1980 (June)
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                 1,978    2,631    3,131    3,809    5,216            6,480
Bank Credit to Public Sector            990    1,051        883    1,442    1,065            -72
Bank Credit to Private Sector         1,376    1,737    2,017    2,605    3,160           3,607
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.6         17.0      16.7      17.5      17.0
General Price Index (1973 = 100)        166       190       214       232       309
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    12.9      14.5      12.6       8.4     33.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector          373.7       6.2    -16.0       63.3    -26.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector          16.0      26.2      16.1      29.2     21.3
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 13, 1981



-27 -                                         ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                 Estimate            Projected
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1985
Balance of Payments /a
1.  Exports                                     9,213   1C,861   11,353   17,488   22,656    26,349   32,159   46,443
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                    6,350    7,354    7,374   11,323   16,903    19,806   23,668   32,039
(b)  Nonoil                                 2,863    3,507    3,979    6,165    5,753         6,543    8,491   14,404
2.  Imports                                    -9,297  -10,686  -11,493  -14,233  -18,236   -22,657  -28,203  -44,106
(a)  Oil sector                            -2,640   -2,909   -3,364   -4,439   -5,884    -7,712   -9,495  -11,554
(b)  Nonoil                                -6,167   -7,241   -7,543   -9,230  -11,503   -14,143  -17,534  -30,663
(c)  NFS (net)                               -490      -536     -586      -659      -849    -1,002   -1,174   -1,889
3.  Resource balance                              -84       175      -140    3,225    4,420       3,692    3,956    2,337
4.  Factor services                              -718      -865   -1,015   -1,261       -957       -679      -370       542
(a)  Interest on public debt                 -318      -441      -485     -772      -807       -942   -1,069   -1,398
(b)  Other (net)                             -400      -424     -530      -489      -150        263       699    1,940
5.  Capital grants                                 100      100       100       100       100       100        50        50
6.  Balance on current account                   -702      -590   -1,055    2,094    3,563        3,113    3,636    2,929
7.  Direct foreign investment                     287       285       271       217       170       170       200       300
8. Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursements                          2,332    1,956    1,637    1,940    2,864         2,881    3,053    2,995
(b)  Amortization                            -437      -825     -978   -1,335       -987    -1,043   -1,193   -1,885
(c)  Net disbursements                      1,895    1,131        660      604    1,877       1,838    1,860    1,110
9.  Other capital (net)                          -479      -175       832   -1,221   -3,000    -2,600   -1,863   -1,048
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)            -1,001      -651      -708   -1,690   -2,610    -2,521   -3,783   -3,291
11.  Net official reserves                        1,557    2,208    2,916    4,606    7,216        9,737   13,520   23,901
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                       2.8       3.4       4.3      5.6       7.0        7.7       8.7      8.8
Public Loan Commitments                                                                                          Average
IBRD                                             564       406       432       726                             1977-79
IDA                                                 -        -       119        89  Merchandise Exports   Amount    X
Other multilateral                               109       136       199       235
Government                                       953       648       775    1,152  Oil and LNG (gross)    8,684   65.2
Others /b                                      1,194       436       962    1,313  Timber                    1,347   10.2
Total                                          3,134    1,727    2,704    3,825  Rubber                        802    6.1
Coffee                     616    4.7
Public Debt and Debt Service                                                          Palm oil                   227    1.7
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (end                                           Tin                        322    2.4
of period)                                  10,018   11,671   13,125   13,317  Manufactures                  534    4.0
Including undisbursed                         14,551   16,153   18,952   20,832  Other                         702    5.3
Amortization                                     437       825       978    1,335
Interest                                         318       441       485       772       Total              13,234  100.0
Total debt service                               755    1,266    1,463    2,107
Outstanding
Debt Burden                                                                                                   Dec. 31, 1979
Public debt service/exports (X)                   8.2     11.7      12.9      12.0  External Debt           Amount    X
Public debt service/GDP (2)                      2.0       2.8       3.0       4.3
Public debt service/Government revenues                                             Disbursed only:
(2)                                           10.9      14.8      17.0     16.3    IBRD                      739    5.5
IDA                      525    3.9
Average Terms on Public Debt                                                            Other multilateral        176    1.3
Interestf/DOD at beginning of period (2)         4.0       4.4       4.2       5.9    Governments            7,071   53.1
Debt service/DOD at beginning of period                                               Suppliers              1,487   11.2
(2)                                            9.4      12.6      12.5     16.1    Financial instit.    2,927   22.0
Bonds                    164    1.2
Rate of Exchange                                                                         Other                    227    1.7
August 1971 Through November 14, 1978                                                 Total                 13,317  100.0
US$1.00  - Rp 415                                                                 Incl. undisbursed       20,832  156.4
Rp 1,000 = US$2.41
Since November 15, 1978
US$1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1,000 = US$1.60
/a  Balance of payments figures are on an April to March fiscal year basis.
/b  This includes suppliers' credits, financial institutions and bonds.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 23, 1981



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 26 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and twenty-seven Credits fully disbursed  356.51  432.43            -
259     1971   Tea                                                15.00        0.29
300     1972   Population                                         13.20        1.06
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                        11.00        0.59
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development               5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50        3.51
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.80        4.42
428     1974   Pulo Cadung Industrial Estate                      16.50        8.74
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00        1.04
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        4.84
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50        0.76
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00       11.94
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00       10.87
827     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00       22.31
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00       47.04
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00        9.43
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00       60.18
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00       11.45
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00       44.14
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00       44.75
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00       42.00
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00       30.00
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                 1.76
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00                27.82
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                 7.96
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                 6.28
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00                52.12
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00                14.61
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.00                21.57
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion (PUSRI IV)  70.00                    1.07
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                 7.65
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                6.45
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00                12.05



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                12.02
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                  52.50              9.62
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.00             13.28
1363    1977   Second PDFCI                              15.00              2.41
1365    1977   Sixth Power                              116.00             41.65
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                     13.00             10.40
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.00             15.25
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.00             46.34
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.00             18.67
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                 3.91
1472    1977   Second Population                         24.50             16.15
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.00              8.62
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.00             43.50
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00             74.61
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00            127.29
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.00             25.36
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                62.77
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.00             65.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00             46.97
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.00             46.51
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.00             40.11
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00            121.19
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.00             39.68
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00            155.38
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.00             34.70
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III         99.00             91.25
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00            116.00
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV          42.00             41.16
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                 35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                  35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00            245.18
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00             46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project            45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project /a              22.00             22.00
/a Not yet effective.



-30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,397.00  931.80
less cancellations                            -15.49   -1.47
Total                                         3,381.51  930.33
of which has been repaid                      -67.90   -1.72
Total now outstanding                         3,313.61  928.61
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Anount repaid by third party         -26.91      -1.33
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3,311.28  928.61
Total undisbursed                             1,986.59  360.17   2,346.76
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ----i(US$ million) 
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism              11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0      53.0
Total gross commitments                           114.8      17.7     132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                70.7       2.2      72.9
Total held by IFC                                  44.1      15.5      59.6
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   29.1          6.0      35.1



ANNEX II
-32-                          Page 5 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                              6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (319, 358, 400, 480,                           9-12
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984 and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)               12-13
Rural Development (946)                                                      13
Agro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                         14
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                         14-17
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                                17-18
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1254)                                                18
Industrial Estates (428)                                                    19
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                          19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            19-20
Nutrition (1373)                                                             21
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                      21-22
Transportation
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                    22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                      23
Ports (1337)                                                                 23
Tourism (479)                                                                  24
Urban Development (1336 and 1653)                                             24-25
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                   25
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion. Consequently, the closing date of
December 31, 1980, has been postponed for two years to December 31, 1982.
All major contracts for civil works have been awarded. The total project
cost is currently estimated to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. The total
project cost is currently estimated at $227 million, which is 38% above the
appraisal estimate. Disbursements are currently about 50% of the appraisal
estimate, but are expected to significantly increase in FY80/81. All major
contracts have been awarded and sufficient funds are allocated for the
programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 34 -                     ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After an initial slow start in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation
System, which is to provide new irrigation facilities to transmigrants and
local farmers over a 3,500 ha area, good progress is being made in awarding
all major contracts, including the construction of a pumping station. The
balance of the contracts are proposed to be awarded in FY80/81. When the
pumping station is completed and plant installed, water can be supplied to
part of the 3,500 ha area by December 1981, or at the latest by March 1982.
The Sedeku Irrigation Rehabilitation and Drainage System is proceeding without
the Iragung Dam being built. The Government decided not to construct major
dams in Java, including the Iragung. This has required a review of the
designs and a revision of cost estimates to be incorporated in continuing
contracts and future works, thus causing further delays. Because of the
delays in project implementation, the project is expected to be completed by
March 1983, a delay of 21 months, presuming no new constraints develop. It is
expected the current closing date of December 31, 1981 will have to be
extended.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date:  August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in March 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program, after initial inaction on the consultants work program,
and delay of one year in procurement of equipment, is now progressing well and



-35 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26 pages
estimated to be completed by September 1982. Studies for a master plan for
the development of the Cimanuk River Basin were completed in January 1980 and
a final report is under preparation. Detailed designs of flood control works
of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and
construction is proceeding under Loan 1691-IND.  Du  to unfavorable foundation
conditions at the dam site and GOIs decision not to construct large dams on
Java this component is indefinitely postponed and an alternative use of loan
funds is under consideration.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 50,866 ha has been completed and the
balance of the area would be covered in three fiscal years 80/81 to 82/83.
The Cisedane drainage works have not commenced due to a delay in the
acquisition of construction to FY81/82, except one contract programmed to be
awarded in FY80/81. Completion of this component of the project is currently
estimated to be delayed by over one year subject to right of-way acquisition
being completed early 1981. Consultants for studies of tidal swamp areas and
drainage blocks are engaged and expected to be completed by July 1981 with a
delay of six to eighteen months compared to appraisal estimates. The project
is currently estimated to be completed by March 1984, a delay of one year.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Initial progress is satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for
the construction supervision and studies provided under the project. The
construction of river training works and flood protection levees under six
on-going contracts is progressing well and on schedule. Land acquisition for
the rights-of-way is being handled with the assistance of private land
surveying companies which has significantly reduced the time to about six
months. No further difficulties are foreseen for this aspect of the project.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.



- 36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26 pages
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Although there
are some temporary difficulties relating to completion of the palm oil mill
and rubber processing facilities, overall project performance remains very
satisfactory.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. While production will not be adversely affected
(replanting yields are higher), costs are estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% because replanting is more expensive due to inflation.
The project has made a significant impact on the private sector of the
Indonesian tea industry. The project training program is especially
noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000 smallholders through practical
village training schemes.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been
ordered and are due to be delivered early 1981. The quality of fishpond
lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now
completed; results are patchy and arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage
is much less than appraisal forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details
not yet available, but inflation and the inability of smaller owners to
participate are probably the reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Although the project is still about eighteen months behind
schedule due to early slippage in implementation, since last year per-
formance has shown considerable improvement. To date about 2,760 families
have moved into Baturaja, equivalent to 61% of the ultimate target. Construc-
tion of water supply reservoirs has accelerated and has reached 50% of target.
Contracts for construction of the last three villages have been signed; the
pasture development program is well established and cattle procurement has
restarted. The rubber planting is proceeding well and the cropping systems
trials are continuing satisfactorily. Funding is no longer a problem and dis-
bursements are in line with the revised schedule and have reached 51% of the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (i) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (ii) weak overall project organization and
management; and (iii) delays in contractor s and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall planting program is ahead of schedule in
PTP XI and in other estates almost on appraisal target. The conditions of the



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26 pages
plantations are good and preparations for the completion of the remaining
works well advanced. Construction of settler houses and roads is behind
schedule although less settlers are on the sites than targeted at appraisal
In view of the recent amendments to the loan agreement, the managements of the
nucleus estates are now fully in command and speeding up the construction of
the houses for settlers. It is expected that the project will be completed
about the end of 1982 or one year later than expected. Disbursements are
below the appraisal estimate, but now acceleration is expected. The newly
established "Team Khusus" (Special Team) in the Directorate General of Estates
is of great assistance to the execution of the project.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is delayed. PTP IV management is undertaking the
acceleration of the civil works program. Tendering of main acess and primary
village roads is in process and works executed and supervised by Bina Marga
(Directorage General for Highway Construction) are expected to start early
1981. Upgrading of the Sungai Tiga Extension and Training Center is proceed-
ing expeditiously. The new management of PTP IV is endeavoring to accelerate
and improve project execution. Funds for executing the FY80/81 work program
are available in the approved budget. Preparation of the FY81/82 budget is
in process and its approval on time is expected.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start. Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 11, 1980.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of late
approval and release of the first year's budget.  There are no major problems
with the project at this stage and it is anticipated that about 75% of the



ANNEX II
page 12 of 26 pages
first year's planting program will be achieved. Disbursements in FY81 are
expected to reach US$3 million equivalent.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date:  November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has just been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress is acceptable. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) civil works in Pangragajian have been
completed, in Margahayu are ahead of schedule, in Baruajak (all highland
vegetables) have been completed (slightly behind schedule), while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I rice and paliwija
crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of labor and difficulties in
procurement. Tenders for Sukamandi Phase II have been issued and contracts
have been awarded for field and workshop equipment, furnitura and vehicles.
Tenders for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu are expected to
be issued shortly. In addition to 60 long-term fellowships abroad, 247 long-
term domestic fellowships have been arranged. Under the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) most of the equipment,
furniture and vehicles have been received and distributed to ten completed
agricultural information centers (AICs). Extension materials are being
produced and distributed from the AICs. Disbursements under the project are
improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit has been strengthened by creation of
new positions which brings the number of assistant directors to five,
divisional chiefs to four and section heads to eight. Due to a dearth of
suitable senior staff, one assistant director, two divisional chiefs and four
section heads are working on a part-time basis. Vacancies in the posts of
field extension workers (PPL) and subject matter specialists (PPS) in the
Other Islands are proposed to be filled up by recruiting PPLs from Java and by
upgrading suitable PPLs for appointment as PPSs. Construction of 165 new
Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and renovation of 52 RECs out of a total of 645
for 13 provinces have been completed. Progress of civil works has suffered
due to an initial delay in prefinancing, inflation and inadequate supervision.
Most of these problems have largely been overcome and all remaining contracts



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26 pages
are expected to be awarded by end-1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment
and furniture as well as in-service and overseas training are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of a national program for strength-
ening agricultural extension services in Indonesia. The project would cover
26 provinces of Indonesia, proceeding on a phased basis to expand the food
crops extension services to the 13 provinces excluded from the first phase,
to introduce: (a) a unified extension service for transmigration areas; and
(b) extension of technical recommendations covering smallholder estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries and soil conservation activities into the
extension program developed heretofore for food crops. An implementation
schedule for five years has been prepared. Standard bid documents for civil
works and procurement are in the process of finalization.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops. The
Project Implementation Unit has been strengthened by appointment of four
heads of the offices but one head of office and the project secretary are
yet to be appointed. A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of
directors for the Central Research Institutes and Research Institutes and
Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture, is expected to be
published shortly. Implementation schedules for the next nine years have been
prepared. Standard bid documents for civil works and procurement have been
finalized. Tender documents for civil works in six location for which
provision has been made in the budget of 80/81 are in the final stage of
preparation and tenders are expected to be issued shortly.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Implementation of this project is behind schedule. The principal
reasons for delays are (i) the late release of project funds, and (ii) the
lack of appropriate salary scales conforming with government regulations.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26 pages
These factors have resulted in low morale of project staff and distrust on the
part of some farmers. Disbursement conditions have not yet been met due to
part-time rather than full-time project positions.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387  Third Education:  $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) are expected to be printed and delivered before the present closing
date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of the project
and inflation since 1973.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26 pages
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, to improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices and to assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC),
six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include
technical assistance and associated studies. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making good progress. Staff appointments follow
the appraisal schedule. Site grading for the TEDC and the Bandung polytechnic
has been completed. Construction of the TEDC and the six polytechnics has
started. Equipment for the TEDC has been awarded. The expert services and
fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component
after initial delays is now making good progress.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE),
Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN),
are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
respectively for four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) and two Faculties of
Technology in Teacher Training Colleges (FKTs) for MOE; 17 new Vocational
Training Centers and 25 mobile training units for MOM; and the principal
civil service training institute in Indonesia (LAN). The Project suffered
initial delays due to slow site acquisition and late contracting agencies.
Additional delays due to slow awarding of contracts for physical facilities,
late release of budget funds, late ministerial approval and slow settlement of
contractors claims to adjust contract prices for the 1978 Rupiah devaluation:
all these reflect limited management capacity. As of now, the MOE component
is nearly completed; all but one TTC are in operation and about $11 million of
equipment (93%) has been contracted. The MOM component has progressed slowly,
resulting in a 2-year delay. About 60% of civil works have been contracted
and 31% of equipment has been awarded. The LAN-s civil works are only 20%
complete, and estimated to be completed by mid-1981, two and a half years
behind the appraisal estimate. Procurement of furniture and equipment follow
the civil works schedule. The technical assistance program for all project
components is being satisfactorily completed. Loan disbursement has improved
significantly in the last six months but overall delays required a
postponement of the closing date by two years to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 35% of civil
works have been awarded and 30% completed. Corresponding percentages for



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26 pages
equipment are 40 and 28. Five more civil works contracts are being awarded
during July 1980, and the remaining six sites are being acquired. The staff
training program is on schedule and development of new curricula and instruc-
tional materials is progressing satisfactorily. Special seminars and courses
for administrators have been conducted and 60 members of the national team
of 150 educators have been appointed as disseminators to overcome slow adjust-
ment at the institutional level to new curricula and teacher training methods
developed under the project. The technical assistance program is on schedule
and successful. Despite earlier delays and low disbursements (35% of
appraisal estimate), the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of
the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, four
have been completed. The extension to the existing Jakarta center is 50%
completed and the Samarang center is 10% completed; both centers will be ready
by the end of 1980. All furniture and equipment have been ordered; 10% is
already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this year. About 80% of
the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets, production and
distribution of pretested learning materials have started, and 1,500 learning
funds are being distributed to selected learning groups. The technical
assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually replacing foreign
consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this year and are
expected to reach $4.5 million or 72% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date:  July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. It
finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion and relocation of
26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 existing agricultural
in-service training centers; and the construction and furnishing and equipping
of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricultural in-service training
centers. It also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation. Physical implementation is
generally on schedule. A number of problems affecting educational aspects are
emerging; action is being taken to prevent them impeding project progress.
The fully staffed Project Implementation Unit is operating effectively.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan has just declared effective.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Disbursements on this project have been somewhat slower than anti-
cipated due to delays in placing orders for the third lot of equipment.
These orders have now been placed and on the basis of contracted deliveries,
the situation is expected to improve. Physical progress has been
satisfactory on extension of the 20 kV distribution lines, but very slow on
the installation of the 20 kV stepdown cubicles. Delay is due to
difficulties in acquisition of substation sites. The closing date has just
been postponed from March 31, 1981 to December 31, 1981 in order that
disbursements can be completed.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial
operation around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but
only 3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system has been
completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. Delays in award of contracts for civil works
caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract awards by GOI
have resulted in a three-month delay in the construction program. This will
delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set which is now expected in
August 1982.



- 45 -                     ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Contracts for turbine generators, ancillary plants, piling work,
and civil construction have all been signed. Bid documents for steelworks
and cladding were issued in August and are being evaluated. The tender
documents for marine works have been delayed due to a change in the design
concept. The revision in the scope of the marine works will increase
original appraisal estimates and final cost estimates are being worked out.
Schedules are being revised in order to minimize delays. It is expected
that the overall delay in the commissioning date for the first unit will be
about three months. No delay is expected in the scheduled commissioning
date of the second unit.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This loan has only recently been declared effective. Tenders for
EHV lines and substations were issued in July 1980; bids were received in
December 1980. The issue of the documents was about ten weeks behind
schedule. Aerial survey has been completed. Profiling and tower spotting
in the field have commenced. Land for substations at Suralaya, Ungaran and
Gandul substations has been purchased. No delay is expected in the land
acquisition for the other substation at Bandung and tower locations. Design
and specifications for the Java control center are being finalized.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan has just been declared effective.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun. The closing date
of this loan has just been postponed by six months to June 30, 1981, in
order that procurement under an existing contract can be completed.



- 46 -                 ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. GOI has
agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export
Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing
date of the credit was therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982
and the EPZ is expected to be completed within this period.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26 pages
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project is expected to be
completed in 1981. Because of delays in the signing of the computer
contract and in order to allow sufficient time for its purchase, install-
ation and subsequent disbursement, it is now clear that final disbursements
will not be completed until about mid-December 1981. The Closing Date has
therefore been postponed until December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26 pages
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
As a result of recently strengthened management, the pace of
implementation is beginning to pick up in most components. The new
campuses of the Food Technology Development Center (FTDC) and the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN) were completed and
formally opened in December 1980. Consultants and equipment for these
centers are arriving, but further FTDC procurement has been held up due to
procedural complications in the Ministry of Education. New staff posts have
been created and fellowships awarded, although both at a slower rate than
foreseen at appraisal. Research projects are underway, but for CRDN a long-
term research program remains to be formulated. Field activities of the
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP) are underway in some 90
villages, but operations are hampered by lack of special equipment.
Evaluations of NIPP process and impact are planned for late 1980. Their
results will largely determine the extent of NIPP modification needed and
the scope for (and pace of) NIPP expansion given the Government-s current
commitment for a massive extension of a simpler community nutrition program
delivered through the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN)
and the Ministries of Health, Religion and Agriculture to cover 41,000
villages by early 1984 awith assistance from UNICEF and USAID. Anemia
Control activities in plantations in East Java, North Sumatra and South
Sulawesi are progressing as scheduled, and productivity resurveys are
planned for September/October 1980. The home and village garden program
exceeded the target coverage (by 72) of 108 villages, and will be expanded
on the basis of a master plan currently under preparation. Nutrition
communication materials are ready for reproduction and distribution; their
effectiveness will be evaluated in mid-1981. Considerable savings are
expected under the project; the Government has prepared a package of
proposals in line with existing component objectives and activities. These
proposals will be reviewed during the next mission.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the
parallel Canadian project will shortly be available, by which time
BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have installed color photo processing equipment and to
have fully trained specialized teams of operatives in the various map
production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Assuming the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) takes the agreed
actions to deal with design changes, the only problem remaining is that some
DGH payments to contractors are beginning to be in arrears due to underesti-
mates of fiscal year requirements; this may again affect physical progress
after a dramatic improvement since December last year. A recent mission dis-
cussed the issue again with GOI, and requested a solution. Overall, the
project is 76% complete (July 1980) compared to 55% (December 1979). Project
completion is still about 24 months behind due to initial start-up delays,
poor performance by a few road contractors (contracts cancelled and awarded
to second lowest bidders), and GOI will need to request a two-year extension
of the Loan-s Closing Date to December 31, 1982. According to cost estimates
available, there may be a surplus of about $8-14 million in the loan, which
could be used as follows: (a) adding justified works to existing contracts
(logical extensions) where contractors are performing well, designs are
available and the works can be completed in about 1-1/2 years, within the new
closing date; and/or (b) increasing the disbursement rate for construction but
not to exceed the total foreign exchange cost. DGH is now updating the
project cost estimate, together with proposals for utilization of any loan
balance.



- 50 -                        ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is still about one year behind in implementation which
cannot be regained. Nine road betterment contracts, totalling 531 km out of
the 800 km planned, were awarded. The balance is soon to be proposed for
tendering. The bridge replacement program is more than a year behind schedule
but the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) has agreed on steps to initiate
it. DGH is evaluating equipment tenders for the eight Provincial Public Works
Department (DPUP) programs, with delivery expected in March/April 1981, but
recent developments regarding the content of civil works in these programs
raise some issues. Consultants are in place for construction supervision,
project monitoring, management assistance, a study of the construction
industry and one of three consultancies supervised by the Ministry of
Communications. Terms of reference and short lists of firms have been agreed
and invitations are soon to be issued for consultancies to assist road
contractors and consulting firms, and the implementation of the eight DPUP
programs. Little action has been taken by DGH on other consultancies, e.g.,
remaining feasibility studies and detailed designs of additional road better-
ments, urban planning, and equipment management, but DGH will soon submit
proposals to the Bank for review.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court-of Inquiry.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 1978
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works finance
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37%
completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the telephone network,
infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The hotel school and the practice
hotel are operating. Final designs for village improvements in Bualu and for
the new road from Bualu to Benoa are finished. The access road to Nusa Dua
from the airport is finished and the Denpasar by-pass road is scheduled for
completion shortly. The market for tourism to Bali has held up well in 1980;
hotel occupancy in international standard hotels exceeds 75%. The final
designs and tender documents for the first hotel at Nusa Dua to be built by
the national airline (Garuda) are complete, and construction is scheduled to
start shortly. The Bali Tourism Development Board (BTDB) is evaluating
additional minor infrastructure investments at Nusa Dua and possible
participation in several hotel projects to utilize the uncommitted portion of
the Credit.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha
in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26 pages
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant,
deep wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban
transport study for Jakarta under the technical assistance component, the
project progress is essentially complete. Upgrading costs for the program
have been within the appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 88 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The loan
became effective on September 26, 1979. The kampung improvement is
proceeding satisfactorily in Jakarta and Surabaya but start-up delays of
eight to ten months had been evidenced in the implementation of solid waste
management and drainage programs. In the secondary cities, the kampung
improvement program is now proceeding smoothly following a six to eight
months start-up delay during the first year implementation period (April 1,
1979-March 31, 1980).
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan was declared effective on February 29, 1980, five months
behind schedule. The main project is about six months behind schedule.
Design work is proceeding and procurement documents are being processed.
Tenders were called for an initial purchase of pipe and fittings and these
were opened in June 1980. Some other scheduled tenders may have to be
postponed because the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE) failed
to request sufficient government funds in the current fiscal year ending
March 31, 1981. DSE is exploring an alternative funding source to
circumvent this problem. DSE is overextended because of the extensive
water supply activity in Indonesia and the numerous aid offers and foreign
participation in the sector. It is at present in the process of increasing
its staff by 160 persons and also recruiting the services of a Resident
Management Specialist. It is to be hoped these two steps may help improve
its internal efficiency.



- 54 -
ANNEX TII
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   GOI with Bank and consultant
assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:            1978
(d)  First Bank mission to identify the   October 1979
project:
(e)  Dates of departure of appraisal            October 1980
mission:
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  April 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             September 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Start-up funds were provided in the NES IV project to help ensure
early implementation of the NES V project.
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of disbursement against individual project components
are as follows:
(a) Signing of Smallholder Development Agreements between the DGE and
the nucleus estates to specify work to be carried out for
smallholder development, in form and substance acceptable to the
Bank (para. 44); and
(b) Signing of Subsidary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and the
individual estates, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank
(para. 50).



IBRD 15634,
TRAICARR           Y~ERO.IR6IrA6S   MARCH 1981
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE
ZAMP~~~~~56RONSCRR
j    cl   v   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AASA E                                                                     NC,I CA
PANOEGELANO  COT H RAN TENNGERA
PRRRER6R  I                                                   C           Bandao~~~ (.fKASI                              -Y
L.b.h.  Fl ~     ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~             .~%> AA  NK                                                                 .y-
* Caolok       SakAbAf\liI                                                               IN
,,,j                                                                                                                              R  KAPRRSETUCESASATSSIEaT      <~eo    I  /
EXISTING  UCLEUS ETATLEBAK
RIVERS                                                                                                                             CASIKMAL                     CIAMS MAJ
INADTE OUNeDARBAES
NUCEUSESTTESA- RVSCMALLHOLDERAIV PROJE
PROPONSERNATINAL  EOUNARIES                                                                                                        P6RNERRARRCE    T
KI~OMEERS~  ~ STING N40LV ESTTE $ITE                                                                               CJO\,TTik-lXY
ROAD                                                                            bs~~~~~~~~~*O~XOalRR
RAILWAYS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
106           0060                                                      IRf                                                        bR0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TSIML  CAI






0-0                                                    109030'                                                    10'0                                                     1 10 030'
INDONESIA
...ej_kag                 NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS V PROJECT
WEST KALIMANTAN(NGABANG SITE)PNPVII
PROPOSED NUCLEUS ESTATE SITE                        ROADS
' -                                    //hago  PROPOSED SMALLHOLDER SITES                 RIVERS
PROPOW ~   /   \     EXSEDNG ESTATE- E SI TEE  -  - KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
.  .  __ _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0        10         20        30         40        50 KILOMETERS
,.t l- /< % O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10                                                                            2'0              30 MILES <031
0030-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                  X<-o N ZU OIL PALM z  
farn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rlUptr
',,,,"' ,tap loss  r~pmporp NbytTO                                                                                                                                                                        PNP   OCEAN  s
Wor , &ots st      '"'','f"   < laas/                                                                                                                          f                           I
,.     . w   '" ... ,, ,"....., '\\\1   
-;-. - R - -\ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~P   O N T I A N A K                                                                                                                       //SA 11C G    A U
an ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     aI
s    oo d,   h        t(.ISI                                                                                                                                  PNP V77                                S
, \\ | v \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT 
Thistnap lys   beona  t prp ed  bf  th e  4S/L    WE- --                                                                                                                                             1N tt            A  
wCtk tga/tk'sstcaff w1usively dlfO   5<                                                                                                                                        0tA                         PAt/FtCOCAN °
thetPOrt towh,chitis attached                                                                                                                                                                                             z k)/v5ztSoz,' sA 
ths eo.ntln   used snd ths  t   Rr\s 3rN,re l]ytAO tF =  
orudrrs6w"n an this nnap       \                                ,}                                 Xz(r(i                                                  Q            oniv)5   
>  Worda onok ant"d its afftiates, any "n
o jdgtnent on tha lopol status of                                                  tJAKARTA JAVA SA
0   fytettitoy OS OIY mlivtmanattt                                                                                                                                                       FOPRES)
or cyoptaoe fc t&tch boondaries                                                                                                           1                  I WA       A                   t                                (.)
to                       lo9                                            r        '09°109030'                                                 110°
-                          tft /   I  h   I  _  en






IBRD 15633
MIt 84*                                                                             102045               MARCH 1981
B7OOT CHONA             o                                                                    INDONESIA
SEA
0bW StA s fJ         p                                            NUCLEUS ESTATES AND
BENGKULU (SELUMA SITE) PTP XXIII
Ad) 4.4 AA                                                                                            PROPOSED SMALLHOLDER DEMONSTRATION AREA
«D<>3  .~ -.         .  3,                             Em3PROPOSED RUBBER ESTATE SITEIPTP XXIII)
CONSTRUCTED ACCESS ROAD
012'1 S'    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _____ROADS
s   102015                                                     102030t                              
Pasarpedati                                                                               . --   RIVERS
--   -  _- ,KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
\ \ Air Hira,m                          f-  - -,v,7ws@ Xf / INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\  - r    D-v         If         f     fS    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Karang 9irf 33ur
ungaihitnjnteama\                                          I    J  
tungaihitam   gS      l    (f                    >gz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2    4    6    B   10
KILOMETERS I_ '           _'       _'         _'
< > S t a X ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M I LES 
ENGKULU                                           bangdar8
X     \        D~~~~~~usun Bsar                               ,      ._/j 
\  4 ,gnsaptu yn 0 > l 4S                                                N  O g   
dewareaa00ah
.3P^5 )14( V                                                                   2                                                                          3°45O
/ / I rV / \ o r. m NU12LE~~~~~~~~~~~~US tESTA    lTE PTXXIIJ-=>,/)
\ 1 4 /4 ~~~~~~~~Smallholder Demonstratio_';  
) ,ri/.-G49 ~~~~~Area 200 ha _
,                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~Padanglebar       J 
n                                                                   pruan>
/ rX dt s a n   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ nnngggai   \
o  C e.Z  n   '    '-  '  \  <        !~~~~~~   ~~02'30'                                            1   f2445'    



