Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8889
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2203-PH)
JUNE 29, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office.
This domeut has a restrkited  stdbtion and may be used by rehuts edy In te perfoiun  bf
their official uties. Its contents may not othrwise be disosed  Woldd Bnk sathoatkn



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
KPTA      -   Kingston, Reynolds, Thom and Allardyce of New Zealand
NPC       -  National Power Corporation
OEA       -   Office of Energy Affairs in the Office of the
President of the Republic
PNOC      -   Philippine National Oil Company
PIOC-EDC  -   PNOC Energy Development Corporation
PNOC-EDI -   PNOC Energy Drilling Inc.
PNOC-GTC  -   PNOC Geothermal Technology Corporation
RP        -   Republic of the Philippines
UNDP      -   United National Development Program



THE WORLD~5ANK         FOR OFFICIAL us= ONLYf
Tlf WS:t>tFBNK
washmton. O.C 20433
U.S.A.
O06K. of Otve-Cfwaei
Opmatimm £valuatw
June 29. 1990
MDORANUM TO THE EMCUTIVE DIRECTORS AID THe PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Philippines
Geothermal Exploration Project (Loan 2203-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
-project Completion Report on Philippines Geothermal Exploration Project
(Loan 2203-PH)' prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This doument has a rsticted distrbuto and may bc used by recients ody in the porf_   I
of their oflci dutieL Its contents may wotoewis be discikmed with  Wod Bnk autbolamn



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2203-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETIONJ REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .................................................... i
Evaluation  Summ ary ........................................ ii
PART I             PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project  Identity .......................................... 1
Background .......................... .. ........ 1
Project Objectives  and Description ..................  2
Project Design  and Organization ........                .............  3
Project Implementation ..................................... . 3
Major Results  of the  Project .............                ...........  5
Project  Sustainability.  .. ..... . ................ .......... . . . 6
Bank Performance ........... ..... ....... .............  6
Borrower's Performance ..................................... . 7
Project  Relationships .............................. . 7
Performance of Contractors  and Consultants ..........  8
Project  Documentation  and Data ......................  8
PART II             PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the design and Implement-
ation and its Development Impact on the Project*.... 9
PART III            STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related  Bank Loans .................................. 40
Project  Timetable ................................... 41
Loan  Disbursements ...... *............................ 42
Project  Implementation ............................. 43
Project  Costs  and  Financing ......................... 44
Project  Results..................................... 46
Status  of Loan Covenants ............................ 48
Use  of Bank Resources ............................... 49
MAP IBRD 16643
Note: *This part has been prepared by the Borrower and its
contents and opinions are not attributable to the Bank.
I This document has a restricted disttbution and may be used by ecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMUAJ EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2203-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Geothermal Exploration Project in Philippines, for which Loan
2203-PH in the amount of US$ 36 million was approved on September
30, 1982. On PNOC's and RP's request, $27.77 million was
cancelled and the final loan amount was $8.23 million. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1988, two years behind schedule. It
was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was in February,
1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy
Operations Division, Country Department II, Asia Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in December, 1988, and is
based, inter alia, on the President's Report (there was no
*     separate Staff Appraisal Report); the Loan, Guarantee, and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2203-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives: The project was to help clarify geothermal orospects
and strengthen NPC's power generation planning options.  It was
intended to bring two prospective areas (Palinpinon II in
Southern Negros and Bacon-Manito in Luzon) to a stage where firm
development decisions could be taken and to help identify other
areas in Luzon which should receive priority attention for
extensive exploration drilling.
The geothermal exploration program comprised geoscientific
studies to identify drilling targets and locations; drilling of 4
exploration wells in Palinpinon (Southern Negros) to prove
sufficient reserves for a second 112.5 MW power generating unit;
drilling of 11 exploration wells in Bacon-Manito (Southern Luzon)
to prove sufficient reserves for 110 NW generation; drilling of 2
shallow wells in Bacon-Manito to establish use of steam for other
than power; drilling of about 8 other exploratory wells in six or
more prospective locations on Luzon; technical assistance in the
implementation of the exploration program, and two policy studies
to be undertaken by consultants.
Implementation Experience:   The project components were well
balanced in the low risk areas of Palinpinon-II and Bacon-Manito
and 4 and 11 wells were drilled to prove steam in the entirety of
the fields. Of a somewhat higher risk was the drilling of wells
in other areas of Luzon; but no wells were drilled until
geological and geoscientific surveys justified the drilling. The
policy studies were to address two topical issues, one on how to
prioritize various prospects for further work based on data at
any given time and the other on parameters for fixing the price
of steam. The latter was particularly relevant for attracting
private company interest in geothermal exploration. Due to
budgetary constraints, the Government explored ways to reduce the
cost of the policy studies and/or to finance them using grant
funds. The Asian Development Bank agreed in late 1985 to finance
a steam pricing study by consultants. Based on the study
recommendations OEA, NPC and PNOC-EDC reached an agreement on the
steam price for Bacon-Manito. The study concerning prioriti-
zation of prospects in Luzon was not taken up. Until closing



- iii -
date of the loan, sufficient data on the other different Luzon
prospects had not been gathered. PNOC has received the UNDP
study, in regard to non-power use of steam, and is proposing a
follow up through establishment of-a pilot program.
Results: The exploration project resulted in discovery of two
commercial fields. The delay in commercial development of these
fields was due to political uncertainty in the country and the
non-resolution of steam-price and inter-institutional issues.
Since this was an exploration project neither economic nor
financial rates of return had been calculated during appraisal.
It was however anticipated that geothermal-based steam generation
would be significantly less expensive than the alternatives.
This was confirmed in a comprehensive Energy Sector Study (Report
No.7269-PH, September 15 1988) which the Bank undertook in
1987/88.
Sustainabilitys The project has reinforced the Government's
confidence in the abundance and viability of the geothermal
resource. The Energy Sector Loan (presented to the Board in
1990) will partly finance a series of geothermal field
development projects and generation of power from geothermal
energy. The share of indigenous energy in consumption will
accordingly increase and this will have a salutary effect on the
economy. PNOC-EDC will grow as an institution and there are also
good prospects of overseas company interest reviving given the
open door policies of the Government and the precedent of
resolution of the steam price issue for Bacon-Nanito.
Findinas and Lessons Learned: During project implementation,
geothermal consultants of international repute were included in
the missions to help review in detail the strategy for
exploration, the interpretation of results of surveys, well
drilling and to guide PNOC-EDC.   The resolution of the steam
price issue was in large measure due to efforts of the Bank to
place the role of geothermal energy in a longer term, least-cost
power development perspective. The Borrower demonstrated
excellent capability to perform provided the Government would
support the corporate objectives consistently. The organization,
particularly in respect of geothermal and drilling activities,
had suffered, in the interim period of uncertainties at the
Governmental level, serious erosion of personnel and of the
painstakingly acquired technical skills. It is being
rehabilitated but a greater resort to expatriate assistance has
been found necessary. The imperative need is that geothermal
development should continue to be encouraged by the Government,
and specially NPC, so long as it ts seen to be a good economic
alternative.



THE PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LN 2203-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
Name           Geothermal Exploration Project
Loan No. :    2203-PH
RVP Unit :    Asia Region
Country  :    Philippines
Sector   :    Energy
2.   Backaround
2.01 The role of geothermal energy was considered during an
energy assessment undertaken by a joint World Bank/Asian
Development Bank mission in 1980. In 1980 imported oil (74
million barrels) accounted for 84% of commercial energy consumed
in the Philippines. The contribution of geothermal was a mere 4%
in the commercial energy consumption. Of the indigenous
resources which could be explored for and developed - hydropower
and geothermal mainly with coal a distant third - the geothermal
alternative was judged to be the most promising and the least
cost one. Although the hydro potential was a high 10000 MW, most
of it was in remote areas and expensive to harness.  The
geothermal potential was estimated at 8000 MW, 550 MW of which
only had by then been tapped by a private overseas company. Two
other overseas companies were showing strong interest but had
hesitated to make investments. Without shutting them out if they
decided to come in, it appeared the PNOC Energy Development
Corporation (PNOC-EDC) should maintain and accelerate its efforts
to explore for new geothermal resources. PNOC-EDC had achieved
success already in two areas, Palinpinon I in Southern Negros and
Tongonon in Leyte where steam had been found and fields had been
taken up for development. This was the context in which the Bank
project for further geothermal exploration by PNOC/PNOC-EDC was
designed.
2.02 The project succeeded in a considerable measure despite some
planned drilling and studies not being undertaken, since it
helped to prove commercial steam in Palinpinon II in Southern
Negros (112.5 MW) and in Bacon-Manito in Southern Luzon (110 MW),
two areas where all the exploratory wells were drilled before the
onset of the economic difficulties. Development of the
Bacon-Manito field became a component in a latter loan to PNOC,
2969 PH approved in FY 1988. Additions made until 1987 to



2
indigenous resource and the energy conservation measures
undertaken enabled the Philippines to limit oil imports in 1988
to 73% of commercial energy needs. In that year geothermal
energy provided 22% of the total electric supply of the country.
2.03 The project under review had an overall cost of $58.75
million with the Bank financing $8.23 million, against the
appraisal cost of $71.5 million and the original loan provision
of $36.0 million. On PNOC and RP's request, $18.0 million of the
loan was cancelled in June 1985 and a further $9.77 million in
February 1988. The savings in the overall cost were a result of
2 out of 25 wells provided for under the project not having been
drilled, but more a consequence of the economic crisis of 1984-86
and PNOC-EDC drawing heavily on its own inventory of drilling
materials and not replenishing these out of Bank funds.
3.   Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01   The geothermal exploration program was to comprise the
followings
- geoscientific studies to identify drilling targets and
locations;
- drilling of 4 exploration wells (in addition to 7 drilled
earlier) in Palinpinon (Southern Negros) to prove
sufficient reserves for a second 112.5 MW power generating
unit (the first 112.5 MW was under commissioning);
- drilling of 11 exploration wells (in addition to 3 drilled
earlier) in Bacon-Manito (Southern Luzon) to prove
sufficient reserves for 110 MW generation;
- drilling of 2 shallow wells in Bacon-Manito to establish
use of steam for other than power;
- drilling of about 8 other exploratory wells in six or more
prospective locations on Luzon;
- technical assistance in the implementation of the
exploration program.
3.02   The project included two policy studies to be undertaken
by consultants, (i) the approach for determining priorities among
various geothermal locations on Luzon and bases for contracting
steam supplies and (ii) evaluating the economics of non-power use
of steam and the extent of drilling for that purpose. Studies to
determine the extent of reserves at Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito
were also provided for.
3.03    The project helped clarify prospects and strengthen
NPC's power generation planning options. It was intended to



3
bring two prospective areas (Palinpinon II in Southern Negros and
Bacon-Manito in Luzon) to a stage where firm development
decisions could be taken and to help identify other areas in
Luzon which should receive priority attention for extensive
exploration drilling.
4.   Desian and Oraanization
4.01   The project components were well balanced.  First there
were the low risk areas of Palinpinon-II and Bacon-Manito, where
7 and 3 wells respectively had been drilled already with steam
finds and 4 and 11 wells were required additionally to prove
steam in the entirety of the fields. Then of a somewhat higher
risk would be the drilling of wells in other areas of Luzon (8
were estimated as necessary), but no well would be drilled until
geological and geoscientific surveys justified the drilling. The
policy studies were to address two topical issues, one on how to
prioritize various prospects for further work based on data at
any given time (not carried out) and the other on parameters for
fixing the price of steam (This study was carried out under an
ADB grant). The latter was particularly rele-ant for attracting
private company interest in geothermal explor. ion. Training and
transfer of know-how and guidance in project execution through
technical collaboration were other ingredients in the project
definition. A bilateral agreement with New Zealand for technical
assistance to PNOC-EDC was in operation and that having been
reviewed for its effectiveness, supplementary assistance was
built into the project.  PNOC- EDC's organizational and technical
strengths as well as those of the drilling subsidiary PNOC-EDI
were analyzed and found adequate to the job under the project.
In the event, the project was successfully executed.
5.   Project Implementation
5.01   Palinpinon (Southern Negros):  Four project wells were
drilled during 1983. Based on the production tests of these
wells, and of the seven which had been drilled earlier,
consultants concluded that the heat energy available in
Palinpinon-II would support an electrical generating capacity of
the order of not less than 133 MW(e) (25 year plant life). In
the usual course PNOC-EDC would have proceeded with the
development of the field to support a 112.5 MW power generating
plant, which would have involved the drilling of about 23
production/injection wells, along with installation of related
surface steam gathering facilities. However, the deteriorating
economic situation in the Philippines in 1984 led to suspension
of drilling activities in Southern Negros, and further
development would need to await the revival of industries and of
power demand in excess of the Palinpinon I (112.5 MW) power
station's capacity. NPC's power expansion program presently
foresees the need for more power in 1992. The absence of an
immediate market for the energy from Palinpinon IT could not be



4
foreseen in the early 80s, but in future NPC's new strategy for
installing power packs in 20 MW modules, such modules having come
into the market recently, would assist in the planning of wells
both for proving resources and for development not too far ahead
of the use of steam for power generation.
5.02 Bacon-Manito (Southern Luzon): PNOC-EDC had drilled 6 wells
in the area before implementing the project. Twelve wells were
drilled under the project by August 1984. In fact, PNOC-EDC had
proceeded ahead with the drilling of more wells towards
development of the field, reservoir evaluation by independent
consultants having confirmed steam availability to sustain
support for power gereration of 110 MW(e) over a 25 year plant
life. Five development wells were thus drilled by August 1985,
when the economic situation temporarily put a halt to the
program. With the upturn in the economy from 1987 input of power
from Bacon-Manito became a priority, and NPC expect to commission
the Bacon-Manito 110 MW plant in early 19"?. Loan 2969-PH for
Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power Project effective from December
1988 includes a component for Bacon-Manito geothermal field
development comprising the drilling of 3 wells needed to attain a
120 MW capacity (110 MW for generation and 10 MW as reserve, and
construction of the steam gathering system.
5.03 Low Enthalpy Wells for Non-Power Steam: PNOC-EDC had
drilled two wells in the Manito lowlands and the project provided
for two more. The primary industrial interests were salt and
pulp/paper production. One well (MO-3) under the project was
drilled in 1987. With the subsequent budgetary constraints, the
non-power steam development program was suspended except for a
UNDP study on non-power uses of steam, which focussed on
evaporation of seawater for salt production and rice drying.
5.04 Exploratory Drilling in Other Areas: At appraisal, six
prospects had been identified for testing by drilling of 8 wells
in due course. These were Balungo, Del Gallego, Irosin, Mabini,
Montelago and Mt. Pinatubo, all in Luzon. Balungo was later
found to lack significant thermal activity following
reconnaissance surveys undertaken during 1982 and 1983. Mabini
and Montelago were more appropriate for low enthalpy utilization,
not for power. Del Gallego, Irosin (Bulusan) and Mt. Pinatubo
have continued to remain fit candidates for drilling, with some
other prospects meanwhile being added, such as Mt. Apo in
Mindanao, Mt. Labo, Mariveles Latib and Bacon-Manito extension in
Luzon. Nevertheless, only 3 wells were under drilled in 1988 in
these areas by PNOC-EDC partly due to budgetary constraints but
mainly due to the non-resolution of the steam-pricing issue with
NPC.
5.05 Policy Studies: Due to budgetary constraints, the
Government explored ways to reduce the cost of the policy studies
and/or to finance them using grant funds. The Asian Development



5
Bank agreed in late 1985 to finance a steam pricing study by
consultants. Based on their recommendations OEA, NPC and
PNOC-EDC reached an agreement on the steam price for
Bacon-Manito. This set a precedent for steam prices from other
fields to be developed in the future. The study concerning
prioritization of prospects in Luzon was not taken up. Until the
closing date of the loan sufficient data on the different Luzon
prospects had not been gathered and by then the development of
all prospects had become important in view of the power situation
in Luzon. In regard to non-power use of steam, PNOC has received
the UNDP study and is proposing a follow up through establishment
of a pilot program for which purpose official development
assistance is being sought.
5.06 Environmental Impact and Safety: PNOC-EDC complied with the
environmental reaulation' stipulated by the environmental
regulatory authorities. A separate division of PNOC monitored
the project to ensure that adequate safety precautions were
taken. In Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito, PNOC-EDC maximized the
use of directional drilling in order to reduce the amount of land
disturbances.
6.   Xajor Results of the Prolect
6.01   The exploration for geothermal energy under the project
resulted in discovery of two commercial fields. The delay in
commercial development of these fields was due to political
*     uncertainty in the country and non-resolution of steam-price and
inter-institutional issues. With the resolution of these issues
the course has been set for a rapid development in the geothermal
*     subsector of the economy. There is, however, a constant need to
ensure continued coordination among the various energy
institutions; effective and timely implementation of projects,
and pragmatic adaptation of the policy framework to encourage
greater private sector participation.
6.02   Since this was an exploration project neither economic nor
financial rates of return had been calculated during appraisal.
It was however anticipated that geothermal-based steam generation
would be significantly less expensive than the alternatives.
This was confirmed in a comprehensive Energy Sector Study (Report
No.7269-PH, September 15 1988) which the Bank undertook in
1987/88. Analyzing the data on hand the Study estimated
levelized cost of generation (in 1987 dollars) from alternative
sources of energy as below:
US Cents/kwh
Luzon geothermal         3.10
Tongonon geothermal      3.44
Imported coal            3.67
Domestic coal            4.45



6
Heavy fuel oil           4.47
More direct to the project, in respect of Bacon-Manito the
resources of which were proved under the project and the
development of which together with the installation of the power
plant is being partly financed under a follow on Bank loan (Loan
2969 PH, FY 1988'. the economic rate of return
for the Power Pi ,ect as a whole has been reckoned at about 19%.
6.03   PNOC and ?NOC-EDC's financial position has benefited by
the enhanced geothermal activity. The steam price (on sale of
steam by PNOC-EDC to the National Power corporation) for the two
fields -Tongonon I and Palinpinon I- was initially fixed so as to
provide a return of about 12% on the corresponding revalued
investments, with appropriate escalations thereafter for rise in
costs of operation. The formula adopted for the Bacon-Manito
steam price also provides for a similar satisfactory return to
PNOC-EDC. PNOC-EDC has recorded increasing profits after taxes
consecutively from 1985, which was the second year of commercial
operation. The results are as expected during appraisal.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.01   The project (as well as the Bank's Energy Sector Study)
has reinforced the Government's confidence in the abundance and
riability of the geothermal resource. The Energy Sector Loan
under appraisal (tentative Board presentation in January 1990)
will partly finance a series of geothermal field development
projects and generation of power from geothermal energy. The
share of indigenous energy in consumption will accordingly
increase and this will have a salutary effect on the economy.
PNOC-EDC will grow as an institution and there are also good
prospects of overseas company interest reviving given the open
door policies of the Government, the precedent of resolution of
the steam price issue for Bacman-Manito and the proposed
resolution of the royalty issue.
8.   Bank's Performance
8.01   The Bank's involvement in the geothermal sector was with a
view to supporting the Government in its efforts to reduce oil
demand for power generation. It was also aimed at making some
progress with the NPC planning process in relation to geothermal
steam. Further, conditions were sought to be created for private
sector interest in geothermal investment in the Philippines.
Through this project and its sequel the "Bacon-Manito Geothermal
Power Project" the vital importance of the geothermal resource in
the economy has been amply established. The Energy Sector Study
carried out by the Bank in 1987/88 has examined the place of
geothermal energy in the power development program and NPC has
taken note of the recommendations in the Study. Bank's efforts
to have the steam pricing issue resolved resulted in the



7
determination of a fair price for the steam from Bacon-Manito and
the evolution of a method for fixing it. This combined with the
Government's policy of encouraging the private sector to
participate in energy development and the proposed liberalization
of conditions in respect of royalty terms, it is believed would
help to promote joint ventures with PNOC-EDC as well as
independent geothermal exploration by qualified companies.
8.02   As many as 10 supervisions were carried out by Bank staff
during project implementation. Geothermal consultants of
international repute who were included in the missions helped to
review in detail the strategy for exploration, the interpretation
of results of surveys and well drilling and the report and
comments of the in-house consultants of PNOC- EDC and to guide
PNOC-EDC. Bank's consultants also made recommendations on
improvements of power equipment/field equipment designs so as to
optimize steam use. The resolution of the steam price issue was
in large measure due to efforts of the Bank to place the role of
geothermal energy in a longer term, least-cost power development
perspective.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01   The Borrower demonstrated excellent capability to perform
provided the Government would support the corporate objectives
consistently. Under the restabilized conditions prevailing
presently, PNOC has reset for itself and its subsidiaries new
goals. The organization, particularly in respect of geothermal
and drilling activities, had suffered, in the interim period of
uncertainties at the Governmental level, serious erosion of
personnel and of the painstakingly acquired technical skills. It
is being rehabilitated but a greater resort to expatriate
assistance has been found necessary. While there is no
apprehension about PNOC-EDC once again establishing itself as a
competent institution, the imperative need is that geothermal
development should continue to be encouraged by the Government
and specially NPC so long as it is seen to be a good economic
alternative.
10. Prolect Relationships
10.01 The one area where the relationship was not as it should
have been was between the Borrower and the consumer of steam,
namely, NPC. This affected long term planning by PNOC- EDC,
since it had no assurance that commercial finds of steam would
lead to utilization by NPC in due course. The position is
presently different and one of closer cooperation and it should
be maintained. The recently created Economic Coordination
Council, on which PNOC and NPC are represented at the highest
levels, will also provide for the necessary linkages required for
integrated energy planning and implementation.



8
11. Performance of Contractors and Consultants
11.01 The drilling contractor was PNOC Energy Drilling INC.,
(PNOC-EDI), a wholly owned subsidiary of PNOC. PNOC-EDI's
relations with PNOC-EDC were similar to those of a drilling
contractor with an oil company. Its performance under the
project was satisfactory after the normal, initial "learning
curve".
11.02 Specialized services of internationally reputed
contractors were engaged for cementation, directional drilling,
tubular inspection and hardfacing, logging and fishing. All
contractors performed competently.
11.03 In-house consultancy was provided by KRTA of New Zealand
and covered (a) engineering services for steam collection system
for Palinpinon-I, (b) drilling management services, (c)
geoscientific and geothermal engineering services, and (d)
general engineering services (design and development). KRTA's
performance was of a high standard.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 A staff appraisal report was not prepared for the project
but the President's report was comprehensive. The legal
documents were drawn clearly. The supervision reports were
prepared in adequate detail. The Borrower was regular in
forwarding the reports and statements which had been prescribed.



-9-
THE PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LN 2203-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Office of Energy Affairs in the Office of the President,
Republic of the Philippines prepared Part II of the Project
Completion Report of this project in June 1988.



- 10 -
LOAN 2203-PHs GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Table of Contents
I. SUMMARY
II. HISTORICAL RETROSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
8. Project Background
C. Project Objectives and Description
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
B.- Project Management
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan
D. Procurement
i) List of Major Contracts
ii) Performance of Contractors
iii) Performance of Consultants
E. Disbursements
IV.   ENVIRONMENTAL & SAFETY
V.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Performance in Complying with Covenants
B. Meeting Institutional Goals
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
VII. CONCLUSIONS



- 11 -
I. IUMMARY
The Geothermal Exploration Project was conceived in 1980
after an energy assessment undertaken by a joint World
Bank/Asian Development Bank mission which considered in some
detail the role of geothermal energy.   The appraisal of the
Project was thereafter concluded in February 1982. The loan
agreement signed on October 28, 1982, became effective on
January 1, 1982. Project completion and loan closing dates
have been initially set on  June  .O,  1986 and December 31,
1986  respectively,  but extended  to December 31,  1988 and
June   30,   1989,  respectively, to  account  for  proaram
adjustments.
The project seeks to improve the national strategy for
geothermal exploration, with emphasis on new areas close to
the Manila market and to help in the development of
geothermal police by the Government and PNOC.   The proposed
geothermal     exploration      program      consisted     Ot:
(a) geoscientific studies to determine potential drillina
locations;  (b)  drillina  of  about  25  wells  as follows:
4 wells at  Palinpinon  (Southern Negros)  and  11  wells at
Bacon Manito (Southern Luzon)  to  prove sufficient reserves
for 110  MWe oower stations.  2 wells for non-power steam at
Bacon-Manito and 8 wells in other prospective geothermal
areas in  Luzon;   (c)  four  studies which  include  two on
geothermal policy and two to determine the extent of
reserves at Bacon-Manito & Palinoinon; and (d) technical
assistance in the implementation of the exploration program.
II. HISTORICAL RETROSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
For  many   years'   the  Philippine  energy  situation  was
characterized by a heavy deoendence on imoorted oil and
limited   activity  in   exploration   and   development  of
indigenous  energv   resources.    At  the  same  time.  its
relativelv low energy consumption per capita grew at a rapid
pace in line with urbanization and industrialization. In
the wake of the 1973. oil crisis, the Government moved
promptly to reduce the country's deoendence on oil imports
by increasing the efficiency of energy use through domestic
pricing policies among other means. bv initiating measures
such as investment incentives to stimulate the discovery and
development of the country's energv endowment in hvdra,
geothermal and coal and by strengthening and improving
coordination among national energy agencies.



- 12 -
Oil imports in 1981 nevertheless, were about 30 % of total
imported goods having grown from 127. in 1973. The value of
oil imports was about USS2.4 billion amounting to about 30S.
of foreign exchange earnings.   Within commercial energy use
(about 88 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBOE) in
1980), oil accounted for 987. of consumption, of which 95/.
came from imports, hydropower supplied 7'. of commercial
energy needs, geothermal power not in use a few years
back, 4. and coal  only 1%.   The Philippine government, in
reaction to the spiralling of oil prices and within the
context of its policies, realized that much remained to be
done to promote exploration for a countryside search for
energy resources, to rank priorities in capital-intensive
developments given the scarcity and high cost of capital,
and to rationalize the structure of domestic prices.
At the end of 1973, accelerated efforts to develop the
country's indigenous resources and reduce its dependence on
imported oil were implemented. Appropriate legislations has
been formulated to encourage exploration and development of
indigenous  energy  resources  such  as   geothermal,  coal,
petroleum.   By  mid 1970 s,  there had  been some important
changes in the sectoral pattern of energy use, with the
share of industry rising and that of transport declining.
High gasoline prices had generally restrained consumption
growth in the transpcrt sector, however, in the industrial
and power generation sectors, despite a moderation of past
trends, energy consumption has continued to grow at a fairiv
rapid rate.   Electricity consumption had  grown about twice
the rate of overall commercial energy consumption, with
industrial  users  accounting  for  about  a  half   of  the
electricity sales. Imported petroleum's share in commercial
energy also declined, and this was attributed to the
initiation of production in the first domestic commercial
oil   fields,   growth   of   hydroelectric   capacity,  and
commissioning  of  geothermal  power   plants.    In  1980's
nonconventional energy resources, hydropower, geothermal,
oil and coal contributed much to the country's energy
requirements.
B. Project Backoround
Geothermal energy is steadily increasing importance in the
energy  economy   of  the   Philippines.    The  country  is
relatively richly endowed with geothermal resources due to
its geographical location which is along the boundary zone
between  the   Pacific   crustal  plate  and   the  adjacent
continental   plates.    Volcanism  and   crustal  movements
characterized this zone, providing favorable conditions for
the formation of geothermal  systems.   In this respect, the
Philippines may be grouped with countries such as Japan,



- 13 -
Taiwan. Indonesia. New Zealand and also the west coast areas
of North and South America, all of which possess geotnermal
resources abundantly.
Early in 1979. the government requested the Bank assistance
for geothermal  development.   World  Bank  consultants then
visited 25 of the major geothermal manifestations in the
Philippines and identified eleven (11) as oriority areas for
further  investigation.   In addition,  there were eight (8)
other areas where exoloration drilling was olanned or
already under way, and several additional areas where
ongoing geoscientific work were likely to lead to additional
drilling prospects.   Total  geothermal  resources  was then
estimated at 8000  megawatts (MWe).   Four fields, Tiwi, and
Makban on Luzon and Tongonan and Palinpinon in the Visayas
were under development.
In 1980, the role of geothermal energY was considered in
some detail in the energy assessment undertaken by a joint
World Bank/Asian  Development Bank Mission.   Appraisal of a
modified  project.  comprising components for the Palinoinon
and Bacon-Manito fields and exploration at up to seven other
sites was comoleted in February 1982.
During the negotiations it was agreed that PNOC shall carry
out Part C of tne project and PNOC-EDC oarts A and b of it.
as described in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement. however.
the number of exploration wells and the areas in which the
exoloration was to oe undertaken as described in parts A-2
and  A-3  tdrilling  of  exploration wells)  were subject to
certain  changes  on  the   oasis  of   new  information  on
geological,   geophysical,   geochemical.  toooraohical  or
eConomic aspects acquired along the way.
Negotiations for this project was held in Washington D.C.,
U.S.A. and the loan agreement was formally signed on 28
October 1982.   The oroject was  originally  exoected  to be
complete by June 30, 1986 but was later moved to December
31, 1988.



- 14 -
C.  Project Obiectives and Description
PNaC-EDC Geothermal Exploration Project's primary
objectives weres
(a) to improve the national strategy for geothermal
exploration with particular emphasis on exploring new
areas close to the Manila market
(b) to help strengthen the development of geothermal
policy by the Government and PNOC
The  project  was  aimed  to  help  clarify   prospects  and
strengthen NPC's power generation planning options. It was
meant to bring two prospective areas up. to a stage where
firm development decisions could be taken and would identify
which of a number of other areas should receive priority
attention for extensive exploration drilling.   The Bank had
been closely involved in studies of the power options for
the Luzon market and had worked with the Government on the
ootions for the  Western Visayas.   Policy studies under the
project were designed to facilitate contract agreements with
the private sector.   They would determine the technical and
economic basis for ranking exploration sites and would
examine the economics of major non-power uses of steam with
a view to early development.
Geothermal project exploration program consisted of:
(a) carrying out of geoscientific studies, including
geological,   geophysical  and  geochemical  studies,
which identified appropriate locations and targets
for drilling operations
(b) drilling of  about 25  wells  as  follows:   four (4)
exploration wells to a depth of about 10,000 feet (in
addition to 7 already drilled) aimed to prove
sufficient reserves at Palinpinon (Southern Negros)
to support a second 110 MWe power generating unit;
eleven (11) exploration wells with an average depth
of 9,000 feet (in addition to 3 already drilled) to
prove sufficient reserves at Bacon-Manito (Southern
Luzon) to support 110 MWe power generation capacity;
two (2) wells for non-power steam at Bacon-Manitoi
eight (8) exploration wells to an average depth of
900 feet in the more promising of seven locations on
Luzon.   These  areas  are:   Balungao,  Daklan,  Del
Gallego, Irosin, Mabini, Montelago, Mt. Pinatuba.
Finalization of drilling - locations was based on
geoscientific tests



- 15 -
(c) four studies, including two geothermal exploration/
development policy studies and studies aimed to
determine the extent of reserves at Palinpinon and
Bacon-Manito, and
(d) technical assistance, financed by New Zealand, Italy
and Japan to BED\PNOC-EDC in the implementation of
the exploration program.
The project was expected to bring two prospective areas
which form a logical part of the national power program to
the stage where firm development decisions can be taken,
and would identify prospective areas  close  to    potential
markets  which warrant  expanded   exploration.   The policy
studies were aimed to enable the government to take a more
carefully developed approach in determining priorities of
future  exploration  locations,   identifying  steam  supply
contract  options,  and   encourage  the  foundation  of  an
integrated basis for non-power steam developments.
The risks associated with the project were seen to be rather
less than  that  for all exploration.   Both  Palinpinon and
Bacon-Manito   are   areas   with   demonstrated  geothermal
potential,  and the very nature of geothermal made it likely
that   resource existed in  any of  those  areas  chosen for
in-depth   investigation.    The   risks   identified   were
essentially economic, e.g. how productive are the wells, how
costly,  how many,  how big is the resource.   This had not,
however  been  a  problem  in  the  other  commercial fields
earlier developed in the country.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Achievement of Project Obiectives
World Bank Loan No. 2203-0-PH was formally signed on
October 28,  1982,  its effectivity  being   retroactive  on
January 1, of the same year. Drilling of the wells financed
by the said  loan started  even before the   signing to take
advantage of the rig availability in areas to be explored.
The rigs used by PNOC-EDC were operated by PNOC-Energy
Drilling Incorporated (PNOC-EDI), a subsidiary responsible
for drilling oil, gas and geothermal wells on a contractual
basis for PNOC  energy companies and  outside parties.   The
following had been achieved in various projected exploration
areas:



- 16 -
BACON-MANITO (Albav)
PNOC-EDC  had   drilled   thirteen  wells   under  the  loan
including MO-3, a low enthaloY well as against the original
target of eleven exploration and two   low  enthalpy  wells.
Deviations just like in any.otner    areas were  mainly  the
outcome  of continuous geoscientific studies  which assessed
potentials of various target areas.
Bv the end of the third quarter. 1982, geoscientific
findings revealed that drilling in the area nas confirmed
the   extensive   hydrothermal    convection   system   with
temoeratures of uo to 270 Celsius and possibly higner. The
distribution of sub-surface temperature based on seven wells
oreviously drilled together with inferences drawn from botn
shallow and deeo resistivity revealed that exploitable
resource exists.
Sv the end of 1984. when fifteen wells had been drilled
(including. 2 otners not covered aY tne loan) structural
mapping and regional gravitv survey were carried out in the
development area to assist geoscientists in interpreting the
tectonic development of Bacon-Manito region and also to
identify future drilling targets.
Studies to identify the permeable structures to be drilled
for  Production  and reinjection  purposes  were  also done.
Reservoir evaluation of independent consultants confirmed
steam availability which would sustain support for target
oower generation of 11 MWe over a 25 Year plant life.
After drilling of tne eighteenth well (five of tnem not
covered by tne loan) on August 10, 1985 drilling activities
were   susoended   due  to   unstable  economic  conditions.
Geoscientific     studies,     however,      continued.      A
Landsat-assisted  geostructural  analysis  conducted  bv the
National Resources Management Center (NRMC) and PNOC-EDC in
October and November 1985 identified dominant structural
directions.   The overall structural framework  was found to
oe normal, faulting in resconse to volcanic and magmatic
activities.   On  Novemoer  15.  1986.  drillinq  operations
resumed wherein PAL 140 the last well drilled in Bacman 1
was spudded.
Drilling  in  Bacman  1r  (Osiao-Panqas   area)  started  on
June 15. 1987  with the souddinq   of OP 1D.   By the endeof
1988 three exploration wells were drilled in the area. Two
wells in Bacman 1 were still undergoing discharge testing to
add to twenty wells previously discharged (this is contained
in detail in the quarterly reports).



- 17 -
Before the closing of the loan on December 30, 1988
activities under the loan was appraised by the World Bank
and found out that PNOC-EDC  has   considered itself to have
substantially   achieved   its   objectives   in  develooing
geothermal power projects and it has further discovered
promising geothermal sites which will be delineated under
the Bacon-Manito Geothermal  Power Project.   This is funded
under Loan 2969-PH, signed on September 1, 1988 in which.
one   of  the   main  objectives  is   the   development  of
Bacon-Manito I geothermal field including the drilling of
additional production and injection wells to support the 110
MWe of  oower  generating  capacity  and  10  Mwe  for nower
reserve in the area.
PALINPINON II (Southern Nearos)
Four wells were drilled under the project in Southern
Negros.   The drilling of  the first well  during the fourtm
quarter of 1982 confirmed deep permeability in certain areas
of the site, thus followed by the drilling of three otner
project wells.
Although findings of KRTA consultants revealed that heat
energy  available  in   the  area  could  sucoort   a  oower
generating capaci-.y of 116 MWe of a 25 year plant life (as
against  the  bank  consultants'   findings   of  133  "We).
operations in the area stopped by the end of 1983. This was
after  the drilling  of nine wells (five not  funded  by the
loan). No drilling works were carried over in 1984. At that
time, confirmed cower ootential on wells discharged was
45.2 ffWe. This includes three other wells drilled prior to
the inception of the project.
Exoloratorv Drilling in Other Areas
The following areas were initially identified as sites for
drilling eight project wells considered close to potential
market in Luzon:
1. Mt. Balungao
2.  Montelago
3. Mabini
4. Irosin
5. Mt. Caqua
6.  Mt. Aravax
7.  Mt. Labo, Del Galleqo
8. Mt. Natib
9.  Mt. Pinatubo
Mt. Balungao, located in Pangasinan is a conical peak which
is composed of oxyhornblende andesite and dacite. A closer
examination of the geocnemical data suggested that discharge



-18-
waters maY not be related to a geothermal system. Appraisal
in  1982   and 1983  revealed that Balungao lack significant
thermal activity.
Similar appraisals were conducted in Montelago and Mabini
and it was discovered that both do not have power resource
motential, instead low enthalpy steam can be exploited.
In June 1982 a one week geological investigation was
conducted   at  Irosin,   8ulusan  in   Sorsogon  to  assess
geothermal resource, but was temoorarily susoended due to
securitv problems.   No  significant findings  regarding the
potentials of the area were gathered.   In lay and June 1984
a photogeological study in the area was conducted and it
showed that the region was dominantlv overlain by volcanic
rocks and appeared that geothermal exploration in the future
should be concentrated in one region called Bulusan Volcanic
Complex.   There was no drillinq yet till-the closing of the
loan.
Mount Cagua is located in Cagayan.   The volcano  is part of
the north-south trending volcanic belt which occuoies the
northeastern section of Luzon. Reconnaissance 6eoscientific
Survey of the volcano revealed that it was at its solfataric
stage.   Hydrothermal  activity  was  going  on  inside  its
circular crater and it was found out that solfataric
activity inside the crater was characterized bv numerous
steam vents and vigorously bubbling mud 1ools. No drilling
activities were carried out under the loan.
ReconnaiLssance geological  survey was also conducted  at Mt.
Aravat,  located near  the boundaries of Pampanga  and Nueva
Ecija Provinces and it was found out that the area lacks
hvdrothermal  manifestations  despite the young  age  of the
volcano.  It was  an unwise decision  if exploration orogram
was to be carried out in the site.   It  was widely regarded
that since basaltic magmas were very fluid and rose to the
surface very rapidly, their tendency to be trapped as
intrusions and their potential to be sources of geothermal
heat were  very  low.   Basaltic volcanoes,  like Mt. Aravat
were likely considered as ooor geothermal Drosoects.
Schlumberger  Resistivitv  Traversing  (SRT)   and  Vertical
Electrical  Sounding  (VES)  techniques   were  used  in the
geophysical exoloration of   Mt. Labo Geothermal Prospect in
January  1987.   Data  related to  the survey  revealed that
resistivity  anomalv  is  associated   with  active  thermal
manifestations such as hot and warm scrings.   In the latter
part of 1987, geoscientific findings suoported the existence
of a large  geothermal  resource  in  Mt.  Labo.   The close
relationsnip  between  geological  structures   and  thermal
manifestations indicated that the Northeast trending faults



- 19 -
orimarily control the flow of geothermal fluids and depth.
No wells were drilled in the  area   till the closing of the
loan.  (See Fig. 1 for the prospective site at Mt. Labo).
SRT survey was also conducted in Mt. Natib and Mariveles,
both in Sataan in March 1987.   Except  for isolated patches
of altered grounds  inside  the  Mariveles  crater  no other
significant hvdrothermal alterations were observed in the
area.    During, the  fourth  quarter  of   1987  geological
evidences favored the existence of a geothermal svstem in
the vicinity of Mt. Natib, however, geochemical indications
suggested that the postulated hydrothermal system may not be
economically viable. No further exploration activities were
carried out.
During the fourth quarter of 1982, geological studies in Mt.
Pinatuba showed that the change in lithology from andesite
to dacite and the predominance of fragmented materials as
one stratigraphically upsection suggested an increase in the
volatile content of the magma chamber with time. That was a
ohenomenon favorable to the development of a geothermal
system.   BY mid 1983, it was further discovered that two or
oossibly three hydrothermal systems exist in tne area.
Geoscientific  exploration  team,   consisting  of  PNOC-EDC
geoscientists recommended deep drilling as the next logical
step in the exploration program, however, the most promising
drilling target with an area of 5 sq. km. appeared small
compared with other exploited geothermal fields. Pin 1, the
first exploration well in Mt. Pinatubo Geothermal Prospect
was spudded on August 3, 1988, was completed, then followed
by the drilling of the second well. Pin 2D which is already
funded under Loan 2969-PH.
While  some  of  the  identified   drilling  prospects  lack
significant   thermal   activity,   some  other  areas  were
discovered, such as Mt. Natib in Bataan, Mt. Pinatubo in
Zambales, Mt. Cagua in Cagayan, Mt. Labo in Camarines and
the Bacon Manito extension, all in Luzon and Mt. Apo in
Mindanao.   In May 1986,  PNOC-EDC showed the Bank mission a
orogram for drilling two to four   wells each in three Luzon
areas:   Bacman  II   (OP 1D,  OP 2D, OP 3D), Irosin Bulusan
( 2    wells to be drilled in 1989) and Mt. Pinatubo. (Pin 1
and Pin 2).
Drilling in Mt. Apo began in SePtember 1987 when Apo ID was
spudded .   Another exploratory well,  Apo 2D was drilled to
further assess the quality of geothermal fluids present in
the site.



- 20 -
Policy Studies
Economic difficulties which began in the late 1983 prompted
the Government to exclore ways to reduce the cost of
policy  studies and/or  to  finance them  using grant funds.
The Asian Development Bank (ADB) agreed in late 1985 to
finance  a steam pricing study .  Consultants  were engaged
and came out with recommendations in September 1987 . This
was the basis of the steam contract price of Bacon-Manito,
as negotiated between the National Power Corooration (NPC)
and PNOC.   This  also  set precedent for  steam  prices for
other fields to be developed in the future.
With regar-.d to non-power use of steam, a United Nations
Develooment Program (UNDP) funded study was conducted and
completed in July 1988, identifying Palinpinon in Southern
Negros as the most promising area for non-oower use of
geothermal  energy.   A development plan  for  the  area was
completed under tne study and as the next stage, a prooosal
to set up a pilot crop-drYing plant is being discussed
between PNGC-EDC and UNDP.
The main objective of putting up the pilot plant is to
demonstrate its viability to prospective Private investors
and at the same time to verifv technical considerations used
in the study. The intention is to let private operators buy
low cost heated fluid from PNOC for their use in product
orocessing.
Technical Assistance
KRTA of New Zealand provided in-house consultancY under a
technical assistance  program of  the  NZ   Government. Four
other subsidiarv contracts were later concluded:
(a) engineering services for steam collection
(b) drilling management services
(c) geoscientific and geothermal engineering services
(d) general engineering services
The skills and expertise of Filipino geologists, engineers
and technicians skills and expertise were upgraded via
on-the-job training and academic development in the field of
geothermal exploration, drilling and development. This was
funded   under   the   RP-New   Zealand   Geothermal  Energy
Cooperation Programme (RP-NZGECP) and the UNDP. (See Annex
1 for the list of grantees )



- 21 -
S.   Proiect  Manasement
The Philippine National Oil Companv (PNOC) was created as a
commercially-oriented,   government-owned   corooration   in
1973, under Presidential Decree No. 334 (later amended),
for the primary Purpose of transPorting, refining and
marketing crude oil  and  petroleum  products.   PNCC senior
arofessionals were mostly former employees af ESSO and Gult
subsidiaries which were bought bv the government who then
corrrised the core  staff of  PNOC.   PNOC has  now grown to
include thirteen (13) subsidiaries, several of which are
involved in exploration and develooment of indigenous energy
resources including geothermal, petroleum, coal and alcogas.
One of them, PNOC-Energv Development Corooration (PNOC-EDC),
started its operations in 1976, and is responsible for
geothermal and uranium exploration. It negotiated contracts
with the government and the National Power Corporation (NPC)
assuming the posture of anY other oil comoanies in the
Philippines. While Union Oil, a U.S.- owned oil company was
concentrating on develoPing and operating two orosoects in
Luzon,  PNOC-EDC  in  cooperation with  the New  Zealand Aid
imolementing  agency,    KRTA  worked  in  the  Visavas  (in
Tongonan, Biliran and Palinpinon) and also  Bacon-Manito in
Luzon.   PNOC-EDC's policy nad been to  euolore areas which,
in accordance witn the national energy plan, would enaole
geothermal resources to  be brought   onstream as raoidly as
Possible.   The concern  of PNOC EDC's effort  was therefore
orimarily diverted to the mighly productive areas in the
Visayas and project sites in Luzon wnicn are closer to tne
market or assured of a market.
With the assistance of foreign consultants. PNOC-EDC's
staff were able to competently undertake its mandate tor
geothermal exploration.   At toe  start,  professional staff
included 50  geoscientists  (geophysicists.  geochemists and
geologists), 30 civil engineers and 50 operating/field
engineers.   Later,  additional geoscientists were hired due
to the widening exploration, pre-drilling exploration and
post  development  drilling  activities.   Adequate training
arrangements  were  made  making  particular  use   of  UNOP
funding.   PNOC-EDC has a record of engaging  consultants as
needed.   Kingston,  Reynolds,  Thom and Allardyce (KRTA) of
New Zealand, Electroconsult of Italy and Japan International
Cooperation    Agency,    were    the    consultants        to
BED/PNOC-EDC under  bilateral  aid  arrangements.   all have
experienced   and   competent   geothermal   staff.       KRTA
entered   into  a   joint   comoany   with  PNOC,-Geothermal
Technolgy  Corporation  (PNOC-GTC),   to  provide  technical
assistance on a longer-term basis.



- 22 -
The twenty-three wells under the proposed project were
drilled bY PNOC-EDI under contract to PNOC-EDC. PNOC-EDl
had previouslv drilled over 100 qeothermal wells and 9 oil
and  gas   exploration  wells  for   other  comoanies.   The
Philippine crews were generallY assisted bv two to four
expatriates hired under a labor contract with a drilling
supervision  firm.   PNOC-EDC  provided  its own supervisorv
staff, procured all other drilling equipment and materials,
and negotiated contracts with various service companies.
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan
The total cost of the project was estimated at US*71.0
million, of which US*45.0 million was the estimated foreign
exchange component.   Although the project was exempted from
duties and taxes on direct imports, the total cost included
taxes on rig rentals, professional services and locally
procured  imported  materials (e.g.  fuel).   The major cost
elements were associated with the drilling of 23 exploration
wells (*40.5 million base cost) and related geoscientific
studies ($7.5 million base cost)" estimated on the basis of
PNOC-EDC s   experience   on   geothermal   exploration  and
development costs.   The  studies  and  technical assistance
were estimated to cost US*2.5 million (base cost). The cost
of the Bank-financed studies was based on 100-man months of
consultants at an average cost of US$12,000 per man-month
including  fees,   international   travel  and  subsistence.
Physical contingencies have been based on 20. for well
drilling,   price   contingencies  on   foreign  costs  were
calculated at the rate  of 8X  per year for 1982  and 8X oer
vear for 1983-85.   Front-end fee was set at US$O.5 million.
About US$1.0 million for technical assistance was expected
to be financed through foreign aid, the New Zealand, Italy
and Japan-Bilateral Aid.   The bank loan was aimed  to cover
the remaining foreign exchange cost of the project. The
loan was set for 20 years including 5 Year grace Period,
subject to  variable  interest  rates.   PNOC-EDC subsidiary
loan from PNOC was subject to same terms and conditions,
however, the former as the beneficiary bore the foreign
exchange   risk.     Subsidiary   loan   agreement   was   a
pre-condition  to  the  loan  effectivity.   PNOC-EDC  local
exploration costs for the project equivalent to US*36.0
million and any costs overrun were agreed to be financed as
equity.



- 23 -
D. Procurement
i.    List  of  Major  Contracts
PNOC-EDC's procurement procedures have been reviewed and
were acceptable to the  Bank.       Most   major    purchases,
including   drilling    supervision,        labor    contract,
materials,  equipment  and casings  were   procured  through
International  Competitive   Bidding  (ICB)   in  accordance
with   the   Bank's  procurement        guidelines.      Highly
specialized services supplied by only a limited number of
contractors operating in the area and including electric
logging,   cementing   and   testing,   mud   logging    and
geochemical  analysis   were   procured   through    Limited
International Bidding (LIB).   Small purchases or rentals up
to $150,000 for equipment, parts, materials and consumables
were procured on the basis of Local       Competitive  Bidding
(LCB) or limited tendering procedures acceptable to the
Bank, for amount not exceeding $2.5 million. Some advance
contracting of  materials and services   (particularly  well
casing and drilling supplies) for exploratory drilling at
a  maximum   of  US$12 million   were  allowed    in   order
maintain continuity of operations.   Procurements  were done
accordingly on the basis of  Bank s  procedures.    (Refer to
Annex 2 for the list of major contracts.)
As mentioned earlier, PNOC also entered a joint venture with
KRTA of  New  Zealand   on  January  1,  1981  for technical
services   and   as  a   result  PNOC-Geothermal  Technology
Corporation (PNOC-6TC) was formed, to render consultancy
services to PNOC-EDC. At present, this joint company does
not anymore exist, however, KRTA continues to function as
EDC's   consultant.   The   contract is  being renewed  on a
yearly basis.
ii. Performance of Contractors
PNOC-Energy Drilling Incorporated (PNOC-EDI), a PNOC wholly
owned subsidiary, responsible for drilling of oil, gas and
geothermal    wells   was      EDC's   drilling   contractor.
Relationship between EDI and EDC was just like that of EDC's
relationship with any other third party contractors. It
performed  satisfactorily  under  the   project.   In  fact,
previous records of EDI revealed that it performed within
budget and in a technically efficient manner. Various other
international  technical   services  contractors   who  were
engaged  by  PNOC-EDC  were  knowledgeable  enough   on  the
technicalities  of  the   project  and  they  all  performed
competently.



-24-
Consultants   servaces were procured in  accordance with the
Bank s  Guidelines  on  the   Use   of   Consultants.   K.RTi
L.onsultants    periormance   was   a   remarkabla  one.  fle
engacement  by  PNOC  EDC  of  which  had   on  e  h;eisis  ori
technoloqv  transfer.  Experienced  and knowiecaote L oe nl
provided the most necessarry technical assistance anc tneeew
were carried out under a wholesome atmosohere con..icive ta a
harmonious workino relationshio with PNOC-ELC stes-.
t Oisbursements
uL3bursements on all Sank-*tnanced items w-cre Ioia.e ie
fol i ow,:
4.nount of the              f
Loan Allocated       t      t!..    ea
C.ateqory             (In US* Eauivalent)  to De Financed
1. Eaqpt., matis. and      4,100,000.00       100l   of foreign
consumables (other                        expenditures:
than fuel)                                 100 of local
expenditures
tex-+actory) I
and 80% of local
exoenditures for
imoorted items
locally orocured
2. Fuel                      516,723.10             50%
S. a. Consultants'         1.517.745.00            l00X
Services for
Part B of the
Project
b. Consultants'            cancelled            100.X
Services for
Part C of the
Project
4. a. Soecialized          1.347,402.60       100vY. of toreign
Services for                           exoenditures
Part A.2 of
the Project
o. Specialized            100,000.00       1007. of foreign
Services for                           excenditures
Part A.3 of
the Project
S. Fee                       532.000.00       Amount due   s
6. Unallocated               15*099.30
T 0 T A L              81,230,000.00



- 25 -
rho adJusted loan amount of US*8.23 million had been
discursed bv February 19S9 exceot for the remaining unused
balance of  US31105.11.    Succeeding disbursements  for the
development of the Bacun-Manito I geothermal field   and the
drilling of additional production and injection wells are
covered by the new project, funded under Loan No. 2969-PH.
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT & SAFETY
PNOC-EDC    has    its    own    Environmental    Management
Department (EMD). Local universities are also being used to
assess and monitor the imoact of PNOC EDC's activities.
Potential problems are taken verV seriouslv and have caused
extensive   changes   to  the  drilling   program  to  avoid
environmental  damage.    Drilling  operations  require  the
construction of roads and levelling  of areas to be  used as
drilling sites; tree and grass replanting is undertaken soon
after construction is comoleted. Flow testing ooerations are
planned beforehand so as to restrict the temporarv discharge
of geothermal fluid to a level within environmental limits.
Well testing programs are deffered so as not to permit fluid
to exceed  certain environmental limits.    Some destruction
of foliage within a hundred meters of the wells are,
however, unavoidable during testing but most recover during
the  subsequent  months.   In  some  instances   operational
effluent would be reinjected and if necessary trees would
be replanted.   Safety procedures have been designed and are
considered for each well prooosal, and aporooriate industry
practices are being followed regarding disposal of fluids
recovered in tests, borehole cuttings, and otner waste
materials  normal  to  drilling  operations.   PNOC-EDC  has
agreed to make adequate safety provisions, including the
immediate acquisition of specialized services required to
mitigate the consequences  of a blowout.   This is contained
in Section 3.4 of the Project Agreement.
In Palinoinon and Bacon-Manito. EDC maximized the use oa
directional drilling in order to minimize the amount of land
disturbances.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFOR"ANCE
A. Performance in Complyina with Covenants
Geothermal  exploration  and  development  is   governed  bv
Presidential Decree No.. 1442 (The Geothermal Exploration and
Development Act, 1978). The terms apply equallv to foreign
and local contractors  and joint ventures.   From a resource
development perspective geothermal has many parailels such



- 26 -
as  oil   and  gas,   and  in  tMe  Philipoines    they  are
administered comparably bv the Ministry of Energv (MOE), now
the Office of Energy Affairs (OEA).   The  basic features of
tha service contracts entered  into  bv  OEA  for geothermal
excloration drilling and oroduction are tyoical of petroleum
production-sharing  agreements.   Although  details  may  be
negotiated and variations may occur, the contractor In all
cases takes all exploration and development risks, pays all
cost and be reimbursed out of the share of future production
(the contractor takes a maximum of 40% of Net Value, 60%
goes to the government in the form of taxes and royalty).
The contract is supplemented by a prior contract for
geoscientific studies, a geophysical oermit which is a
non-exclusive  right to  an  area.   EDC  complied  with the
contractual arrangements with the government in undertaking
the project.
As  the  beneficiarv  of  the  loan,   it  has  carried  out
exploration activities in accordance with the terms and
conditions set in the loan agreement.
8.  Meeting Institutional Goals
In October 1987. Presidential Decree No 1206 (amended in
June 1978) established the set-uo of the energy sector in
the Philiopines and created the Ministry of Energy (MOE).
now the OEA, as the central policy, olanning and regulatory
agency in the sector.   The two major public corporations in
the  energy  sector,   the  PNOC  and   the  National  Power
Corporation (NPC) are attacned to OEA for program and oolicy
coordination on energy develooment and utilization orojects.
Energy policy in the Philippines is character -ed by the
thrust to reduce the country's decendence on impor'.ad oil by
emploYing the following strategies:
(a) diversifying energy resources and develooina
indigenous resources
(b) limiting the growth consumption of oil-based forms of
energy and   increasing  efficiency in energy-using
activities
The   supply  strategy  includes   the   intensification  of
exploration for indigenous  resources.  use of hydroelectric
and geothermal energy for power generation, and utilization
of coal in oower and industry as a fuel oil substitute.
Accelerated efforts to reduce the country's dependence on
imoorted oil through tne development of these resources
beqan in 1973.



- 27 -
PNOC-EDC could be considered as one of the offshoots of this
effort and as a result it has been able to assist in the
rapid exploration for geothermal energy in line with the
policy set out in the national energy olan. Geothermal
steam was expected to cost onlY one-third of the cost of
fuel oil, and, in appropriate circumstances, develooment of
geothermal-based  generation  capacity  mav   be  considered
significantly less expensive than the alternatives. The
disadvantage of geothermal steam is that it can only be used
where it  is  found.   As a   consequence,  the  most likely
geothermal fields for economic development have been limited
to those close to existing major transmission lines such is
the case in Palinpinon area of Southern Negros and much in
Luzon area.   The develooment of  Tongonan  I in  LeYte was
primarily   to suPplv  fuel  requirements  of tne fertilizer
and   copper   smelting   comolexes,   Philonos   and  PASAk
respectively.
the Bank has conducted an extensive study of alternative
least cost oower programs for Luzon and  has  identified toe
probable role for geothermal power. Bacon-Manito geotnermal
power was.seen to contribute significantly towards deferrino
major  transmission  line  investments  and    could  be  an
imDortant  factor    in   meeting    tne   country's  energv
requirement leading to significant foreign excnange savinqs.
On the basis of the oresent knowledge of the country's
substantial but undeveloped resource potentials, it is
likely  that  the   Philiooines   could   become  adequatelY
self-sufficient in energy.
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The  initial   amount  of  the   Loan   as   negotiated  was
US$3S.0 million,    however,   subsequent  cancellations  in
December 1985 and February 1988 reduced the proceeds to
USt18.O  million   and finaliv to US$8.23 million.  Original
financing olan of US*71.5 mi-ilion for tne Project consisted
of foreiqn and local costs in the amount of US*45.u million
and $26.5  million resoectively.   Total cost of the project
amounted to US$58.753 million. of which USS29.784 million
represents the local comoonent and USS28.969 million. tne
foreign  component.   Only   US$8.23  million of the foreiqn
comoonent was the portion financed by the World Bank. while
USS2.751 million came in a form of Silateral Aid from New
Zealand, Italy and Jaoan. rhe rest came from PNOC in the
form  of  of  inventory   advances  and   drilling  supplies
inventories.account. (See Annex 2 quarterly disbursement..of
project cost).                                             e
Reduction in actual World Bank disbursement   as against the
estimate was mainly due to modifications in exoloration
program such as the curtailment of exPloratorv drilling in



- 28 -
other Luzon areas (other than bacman area) and the absence
of the need to replenish   inventories of drilling materials
and consumables at the required rate or as a result of
FNOC's reduced overall drilling program. A shift of foreign
exchange exoenses for drilling from the bank to PNOC'S
account was made based on the 1985 revised project cost
estimate.
Front end fee under Category 5 was totallv disbursed during
the negotiations of the loan while the amount classified for
unallocated  expenses  was totally cancelled.   (See Annex 5
for Disbursement of Loan Proceeds).



- 29 -
VII. I. JsAUQN
The Geothermal Exploration Project was a success as measured
bv  the  achievement  of  its  objectives.    the  extensive
geoscientific  studies  undertaken  in  the   various  Luzon
geothermal prospects identified potential areas where deep
exPloration  drilling  should  be  conducted.   From initial
indications, about 400 MW of power generating capability can
be tapped from the areas of Mt. Pinatubo in Zambales.
Mt. Natib in  Bataan,  Mt.  Labo in Camarines Sur, Irosin in
Sorsogon, Mt.  Cagua  in  Cagavan and the  Bacman extension
outside of the 110  MW Bacman I resource.   Additional wells
drilled  in the Bacman I area  &  succeeding tests confirmed
reserves sufficient to supply a 110 MW power station which
can be on line in the Luzon grid in 1991. Additional wells
drilled and further resource assessment of Palinpinon II
uroved the presence of a resource to support an 80 MW oower
station.   Exploration  drilling  in  Mt.  Apo  in  Mindanao
yielded Positive indications of oower generating octential.
*         A long term geothermal steam pricing policy based on a study
financed  by  the  Asian   Development  bank   can  soon  be
formulated to facilitate steam supply contract arrangements
between  NPC  and  interested  orivate   investors,  tAereov
accelerating exploration and development. The UNDP - funded
study on non-oower uses of steam has identified PalinPinon
in Negros as the most suitable site to be develooed.
PNOC-EDC expertise in geothermal has been further enhanced
by on-the-job and academic training under various technical
cooperation oroqrams.
To follow up the success of tne Project, another one was
conceived,  this  time. to  comolete  the  development  and
construction of the Bacman I geothermal power project and to
delineate the geothermal resources oresent in the various
geothermal areas in  Luzon.   Designated as the Bacon-Manito
Geothermal Power Project, it is a result o+ tne least cost
analysis of NPC's poaer development program which gives
priority to the development of Luzon geothermal resources as
rapidly as possible.



*                           ~~~~~~~- 3~) -
&.OiT 'Dtf. PV           UJ
~~ "4 ~        -A
-~~~  -'r0"   ~~~~~t11** 
°°>$ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~TXI~S~     Ifh-STtA.p0t Of  U        O     PA 
IouAmYawt AU.UVML CEFoaT,                      ~                     ~                            .~F'   0  ~             t °l
J!IA                  ISZTe{flCt        elosr
1.580 V0%~~~~~~~A56IChU(MU  NDFLSNERML FArUSE
LAt W    tOEtE lDU!faCT o S.t                                                                         S C A L S
I:R OWTIElAMOCrt fll       1       UAL FAULT SAM go tWNflf  slOt
LARDEMY WN MaTC-ANDMIt LAVA$ AWLAOM  ~OASIEgO WN(N liIFangto
3 or1            N. GEOLOGt. MAP
VINAS FO         BO AT14N(PUOGENSA)            E U             AOSLFWAT
jn-To1M TNAM OML1 805511 (CAWCAASA.                       NSUTNAL. SuLl"AlE
9JisoOA5A50 VOICANCS I UFC U1OCINE I                    0    MUTUAl SICARK ~Zg
gure i. GEOLOGIC MAP
MT. LABO GEOTHERMAL PROJECT'



Annex I (p. 1)
hi ff atil IlWX16U ft          t
A. 8. a EecIa.l,                                              J.f. bas.           Vintom  teawetuaSt 114.             #411N Kw                       5*      'f~*u lah . LWU  _ls.
ft. L      wow  ftus                                          4t. butt                     I          QUV4  twUhtf.                                  i6             1 b,r ,, I.. bLs ft ,.. a
it.    -
Lk.. t ftroiqe                                                is.F. (erro        tOn*. o4f Cs,f.A., ILL.L       f      Mr t4fit             S        162        Natw$ Agharfjo$ *C                                                               a
rl de tosalcelw s                                             Lf.8.  o            Au. d lost, dl lotS.. la.           lash   halv 19*                                fa rIb..(q'..5 t
F.kt. so Eetcteasla                                           LI. ".iA            ViKt.'. gisw;tf, &.                 5P   811                       1           rftw"lo   WeIS. cards GWWWrn.40 
I.k. is fItrdoo                                               8.. Sfow,          teas. d @4Al. 8.1.9    UP                                          Jo 1         sr. Eotssp,, fhopw, SI
lk. I. hwtusr fAues                                          L5. Castaillo        sacv. at lA   4, LI.                ItL to 11 tlP WS                          bow * A eld. 111
Ot. it A"too                                                  tf. Iawot           OV. tO #UAk . LI.                   06  8                          SW          Wood.ql,  t      D..8l
P.U. to  t t                                                  o.L. vtlw           Wtegra >te., 11*.                   I t481(                        IV         bS1q  tkuO       sts bsIt..8
IL.ra ies wr 1.                                               J.l. sAiea          t"v. of AW004. d84.                     L tw 80                            ,  lowr.,   . £tq., 1
lI. la scow fJ, law                                                               teA. od tawtpbtt. I.                5C SPW ?"S    ;  f1lt11t, tA5i, IC
n11ki. so 9q  .                                               I,8.9.  4lat,t      il1. PA WS,sI. 'Li.                 "4  W                         IN0                 !ar y., 6L  Wt .  la
141,il. 1is   . toia t *u   t q6                             ILL. 11aag           ou. @4 &IIPt.    11.1.         *    CP.SWD                         I89        &*t,    oil W10OLa. tLq-.
Lt-. so aetw  ,stv                                           4.6. tfetw  . J.   taw. of WIl,S. P.L                     "   W                         Ilt        kthmag  ltre. a
Sastettts INla ,. Ilcm                                       f.L.. Its. ha        tb1,. P A.ctU,*, Lt.                t       0.                    lo          also I oge., la
fiat.e at to 1q49. v".)                                      IL.L *p              ta. @f AmtUlr4. LtL.                f/4        W tf                        t Ni. 6vair s Lip, law  tS. htj.
5I .. SWDITttl    04'L                                       3.11 tm              sls,E t    wlhrltt. MEt             &E4.                           Uot &t v.
L.1* toSa wow 19.                                             :.F. ol.a           t    cO*e(tsr&l   WWt. ItvS W        UAYfAW                       19             nerlo tw.
Ill.   !
1sap2  Cwite 111 to lettas.                                  t.0.I. 6i-amm        0141. 3i. 0 Sthac*. Lta,           IMuthlCaao  o.,               1911        to.he A   ". tuo a         . 8
KtSo       tfo.olMCI                                         ;.s. W-+s                aa4tvI  to>vvto.                11811                         t9n   t     Sr.l furs*it. s , to
K u        s to&e411 WOOl                                     1.6. Ia1asuSald      AOtA.  selst                       Uu                            l*i9        imp,aejm n1 g$ so   5efl atm
iC la 2t4tt.FWa  leti.                                        iA 1. 46 C*l        tM#l. 0, C.,&lla.. M..              III I' I19'                               fool. ktulOa,. Sal Sesapa  J"t
X ta Gettut hIa.                                             ;. ;4j.ar           L..  to e.. 0 LI.                    U tt f P                      191         Pros. kwolrt. W   tS o          19
iC to tss4to tfOmsilo8w.o; 14a.                              2.5. Imumto t        *     i... iNo10 t ttnW . brt,     ta,. 8O
M   tis t Wul* lts.                                           I.A.l.. .U           W*.  A          5.1 .              B LI.                           0)        OW,    wo Mpo,             .
lC@r m  *XNSg  le4...LA."m                                                       L4U.4; lt.iw.u*s.*?                  1151                          *?)           ,nk bs , bolata..t
It i dWlhoal letS.'.. Soil                                                       1.. a      1,Md.I.                   (3w5 r                        1*          Etst,tl t, t      il. r, MD
I Cs to tt  4 tctt.                                          Ni.                  Wis t.  L4. a4 _xia t . 14. B.ot b P                              *4           As. l    NOW ., MW
t la Ritorwt bt.                                            ). 4..sa            t1.. P    last                       tIll                          1911 U&Et .    odIgN,t, otOs. IS tl
Clts?etteusatbclc                                            ..tl.tL  tSt        t)is.tlMk1#ll.lk.                    Utt50                         21         lav waeo.k.4,8
CC s ta5stlwslloS                                            l..r  at.           19mw {ts' Aaufrd  1? tt U81                                        191         ftroos 01..  W
K to tawtvea  ILeS                                           I.W. Cfrt1st,.  i4t. ttm.   Jwcl.x4,8. LI.89                                           IN98        Smurvimim; Earttal, ftopl., i0
' II ;to sostrp                                              .t. wit          '  t>.slA. k#1et4                      (3. it5                                    Poni. a0wwl£h, so..        tO
PC to ttteitwiac                                              5. lvt.oo          tWlA, IctrV4                      ,                                lID         EKclta it. Eapl.# 
K is ttarAl let.                                             t.V. ;trra          tuu. to DK.l.a.. Ia  .               WQ gO                          M5         frl1 W 11 awonw  tres; M
K to tturalt lts.                                            114,   L.uetWA      fW. (. AciM,1#.L.                    1f11                          19*2       lhasw 1st [oy., hilt., t1



Annex I (p. ')
IC to Stw.a£ ticJh.A%                                                    ibv of hoIi., h.Z.              NO##,                      SI         hoipc4t  kick..O, (wt  waus
K to Iwfi. s*.o Uwmt                                    .. Pma'          1824. kiIni                     $30                        119        t.vwa'h. %NriA Iu.Aife.. up
X a. kw*,&asai  UCLL. hestfi   ~ 3t. of kiulvJ. LI.                                                      *14 KU'                    £15       #.wOW 19., 93 mbo. so
CC ti [**4rol lsoh.                                    A.C. VOWS         Os. o1 ,, Ii. L_.        ,        4                                   1"Pom"fq&      3pad*. .ea&* 0
I la kiftpa  ftec                                      L.A *O do         om of AOWlv4, LI.               03,5                          3       GKNV* I       St "   £ruaU MD
Xt' t.w.       I, bI,q  A                              U. Mau            WINE4A. WO                      0d 3401s   I LtkA. &W-. ft    Swa*, bS4
t is ItrAwp    r                                       LL &A"&           6%3.. hulo fLiltAd. k11g . I3: .                                      kIPuC £ar. 911. la  fcs ke-
e to   si        .                                     Id. sogla  tL5. ft WAO't4, Itd                      U                        11         to.4 ,        19 k.,is     £1)
K a' oct04a"1 lrc.                                      .. 1mrwi         tu9i.. if A.O4. Lt.                 tt"tl owir    S im., ha. _.s
SKto     ruI lc                                        4.1 tl Jatr.      go... &. ot 7 ttd4 .            03 £t14t                              v D  ate k@st -ui*W" a
K ta 6eIA Ih.                                         V1. 4f" A,te       ha.. p la1)140. LI                "  Kw'                              W     d, f . lS
Ittt6£ krWW                                           I.$ val.5  w      att t Cit8;. Di t.£.1144        1111 tal D   0 F.          11e0       ktLkftltt £   ,    £
.IC 141 t1t.t. 5.II,..ea'                                                 I 1. iO ; i"44h.   .          oust4d  WIthvti.f b ht.               udW01. 1 , 1
K se Iicwad t tih                                        .4. t t,. J.   t.u. O :       .t. .             fPtt"P                     t3         S.."      94.8.. 01196. 
tC St a'kctOae c6                                      U.kI all:        ton.. 0 f    tr:. L..            tt-4 fP at4                              . .   *ehc     all   t u'19
W. to WW"  I.                                          O. I. L           Ot,. Os kicitabO LI.            0P01 .5                    14         Itwou t*t. by , 96 &Ima p
Kt a'wul t     c                                       6U. Cpcaa         thet. eJ MlIo. It.                   so K ;15                          w.wt  SW.. "  a,$g le
K is ricAh    l h.                                    5.). $f l', 4  Ito .Um               . L    o1                                S          St. tiCl la.. le #mvap
CC sto  _ttw      ts                                   O-L rat"          twvt. of Xtlot. tl                    W          t                    AO. 6wst LW             616  £*t.  £'O
V la *aal _c                                           LA rWA            16. if WI)        .             #44 W                       ft        ft. dhlt, So              t.
It as £taawi Ih                                        VI. Load          IVA4. Of e.ottvd, ILL           IFIY  XtP                             14w.. £1 r.. SW
t It atherwa  I"                                      i.*1.# Mt          tt. el Ms£a. tL.               Iltt                                  LAL Bald, tkW am  ft;6
IC i* r1000  11 tKL                                 i"&L".              tbh. st it.Wc,. Lt.         L           Go                             u    *191   u 1 f*. SE aw t, la
;C t* kbowd Itch.                                      &t.  ead         ttildl tlt.L IF4. W    t         W6                         JIU I      ftcko aw,.
K a is   hrwi lKOh.                                     *.?. Wua        lb4.. Of lichUSa. Lt.            344W10                     £197       Sus fy.. SW
K  o  ati   h                                          91.t  ;"          84,. iod'. Wr., se
to bw tq        6hE4e.                                 LCtq uu. daa                                        a4.                      £110          twabl  u  pSW.
s fa rp IucTaMd$                                        . Unto          &,raI hvt  te                       rso                     ut &W., up
K   E. wq  f**%fag,                                   0.6. kwl&    (i;"&*A iu,1sh4                      140                        lug       fitaw.mg IsV, le
13st&s  Wmu. a 6..tL                                   hA k4aft         tS4 . cud tL EaaC tI RAY   Om                               toS3111    b    .
fWcIMAN'a-twit  510  *85 lo      tI    w.t             L$. lt4           vil                             i4harN  tuti,              fl        FrO14. ctwG atv, 19
St . tbvlcaw      S kothrI Sell..                      )J. lesoa         h4.                             Utt         0 688tmw        074       ilp". kiw2,  a    £13M
SICm  f".     rI (alt 10c5q.u                          4. ket                                             W0-ffaft4omatmw           l1o       Ma'0 twoautaw, aml, is
St £ GeItlaram  unititq ktlstuI                        IS. klo                                           *4it£ 188053t0             W$        ki1I (f.rda'd.  &mpW I=
121- %*SilAra fm" 140.                                46f.. 4t*Af        I .e.&g V~4*., lacb             jif4i                      Is's      E%n  Iua* f-O  A .p  1131,
$91 - swwogea EwlL krm.iq                             EdL Pens          (IWV-Ut*.                       3ibhm.u Ju0aco             177       luchset. bwa  toI~  £
StC . rf,4ct sr£ 9aI. Tk t.. 1t..                                        (-.                               utk.wad kuat,Wc          9w1        fuggt Isdw  ftt
PIC  kc£atoreat Fewd Woh                               CA le."          Oi..41 KOe.br                         W601ad                iota n    SueauIa  Soap, 19W 
sCU.lftiUit - kd)&t     lbk.                            E. tl*U             u - 4'..  *J51                                          884        O.tis  8 Ilug t Umet
SIX - etepWlf Fa4 trtl.                                  I.S. 4eA4a      S., K                            11.OttrJat ;ltOtDc#       ton        "W. _, o         Ot  a. low
Slt kifS   hi411        PWslIte                        J.;. ftdh         411hv.. s :.                    IC-wt4&a  fett             gm8         . aI*ut. t   1  4        t4a
SIC -hel   1       i  1r W. .f1. 16' (                                   Ad;t                            O .t-4muIherauu mutuC     "90        foa S        u. se  futy    llDb
Stt                                                                                                      (PC Ofb tar , ta t. Pt!*C            (iqWt y. *"*W Mit   -



Annex I (p. 3)
60til tn"u
tme.4,1us  witlIV1               .                               I.;.tsrsmt-tg-  wt  Ms$ etw       m    n              is .*                                          tfl                                    _W
.:     ts . 1-. Isl'tw ns      ive. Naitos*w sw                @; (biil i-'                          04aafts. WA          ftaoww    C:4;r                              0- @ rW+..l
sa-w#r4.*tiss;- ........... tt: t%r. ,r,:*. &t i;t-m                               It                                     U..-iu     ,,                    i          PM':tWk| 104... W
;;' WaImco'a. Vt.   St,b W icm                                     4e '. iut. Jo  --moe 4 ut. kal  ;r; i,L-4br4                             1*            fle t       4"Mil   ."    1
iSE - lica katti                                                 l.C ;.I .:>-|Cz                                                    t 0                      1`1 -l. feiw   is4 .             I1
t.t * F;ti-tw     t 4*141o-. 4 -1 4Ito                                                ::1:-:d b;6.                            S Za wS                       t;.:            f       ft- s.Z  04
{; :(tF t-u tw$ b$lv4%,4 folq.;                                    -'t aro                                                     ( ;                 :tit               rmw.4    buti .... Ptd-t~.   t us    M
:t; * kdtt.w&  hisd. a                                                                                                            itzt,s          ,      ,               h a @,,.; o It*  h          . L, w.r.. n. i It q  ItI t1 
SX - Sotj X It-o-o*f - -stv6,1                   .-. ;6'.                                       C-u '.- :F.t t Ottt ...... oft   I   ,; 4                IN           kaso'dels.t, W&1. la
It    f ..,l,    h        ww8 e-r* -|....          .         ....I .. ..4 e 'w'-  ''- ,.%J.     I.i.4.4  t-x 4i                                                       t"r-0110  'tff lo.  t6  on
tvs. hw"tvwtb+***eM^ t .............. ,  .*  ¢m-t.                                               ...  -*,.  Q.A*                                                      W.4 061^  r>. tvJ   udelVtl 
't,11sa to #MO# 1vowtat    lCf 01:.tlfbI^Wtol$144 t; str''    ,t -:  *             11%f ;.4 V.P tf . 0'11                       .-'                        0* Met   Ififtst,ID
Sb'st"41 I"lo"i^Ic tItWL-4                                    ~; ,,.               P . A .&.,4J. %;.                     t tYf    G  so                                *s" l. t ,"  Wt
Gor '-wl   tNtat T@f St4.                                                          6   toto$.  MA                           I C AX                                    ft%w., la |t"fas  tso Sraf , Sf
;: .-ri-esail siolf   .                                       *..}4F               §;;.e>                                tisW-s                            0S                s so
M;   W01-wi .lX (00      .                                                             .,-- iAW:                            SO'f itI                                     A.R fi l. IV.. Mt.  ¢
I'St 14 0Pt111"s C(rt411t                               WlX t -tit U ' tl:.                                                0-'' (A..         .          . ;   taU "'S S    kt.tt fw,, b4o's.. L
j:, t. t AWW t,tetft W.<9                                                                                              11;^ r.6-^i  4144fiS            141         stIt4.,tsow..
itW -   staredttft.                                                      I            t s itt 't-'fgilA.                    WtXt.                           tst ((OPn ifi 
Sn  - tatoto a 4ttt*4 A.' .                             .                             f+. 4-^5! P. f r o ; ; #                 %:t t%tsertttat
It -  &-artmMst   :g;-( Iff*0-tl %thst*Jr W mI   SfR.                   Wm.gil        loriw  -C. 'itw.sd lf CA.1fS ;ti       R--                              4                      Wiii,
S;   k4tkutAlt  M. ft S Itc,'44.4. I                                                  ;l  xi                                tS   fjN;P1                     'V.  (tat. bo ttt . W
St   i"C11444 t4.0 tat. S; cKts4,F                                                                                                *M f14-  *  l;'i            4         Sp. (""Vt. btPt. tt
'-U  v*e    Wg O*4',,,"I*                                                             C**  s                                    tis-*l                     I%;          t4*t11taO  " r. ttf
.t e . ;s#St.twttli4s,. Ft.          :                    tt;. ... l4. .  *           ,,, ,S 1'4t :i:.S if                                              "1
Woi    oto;.1 cloiSte'fs t                                                 *"-i                                                                                 it'i't R. 1j ,. t*'  h.; ;-ui t .,tt , t
t;; '"                                                                                                                                                                itt4M  6,eSettt  'ts .;. , ,.t,,;;ft;i(A S.4 ........t4, 1'0 ....tf4FS
.'t'ruJttf V;f - tt14   itilN                                              ^#      t*   v'  f J.9s*^  Is Lo."                    il,t                    I            t          S    t ritf
S  WIPI t: -s~ tttltet  D0 ;B  W    . t ' ;I. C* JI L 'i lf;$t&.  i;,1   % ;Cft:             1 't -'- .F  t os} tik@  U.t4.  ;Sa 4                       t S         ifW~,ue iStst4  tt)
eX    Ism-i Pr4 ti'. for Lintast:Icl.*itv*;n ............... to* ;,*-m    .,. t;, t4                     Kk  Pt,;I'' tiAlt. tii4tX t
S, , , tof tri2esOa tpeattit bS4 1..........                    -tltf4";- -4 ..  41t. 10-1                          *        i. ¢t   r t;tt .    1           ;4    4    t"Po       tS
itc ' ;0VAtlut ti L  M. t 4.%411 9itHt                          .,i    t;             tl   .t t-.  attb; *sti
i.   s'i'tft:v      Wit t4tft'                                   N, A.?s *-             d     r-                              tItt                          1. 4        "*Ai04 htttu            to
R:lJ wi -           {1111C ICtA  f .w-41404to,."   tt*.41        W,,i    I                                                  0 '1; t7f                       M&i         Otd4i1*   e4(Af
PC   Ilyt,fittStIlA 0              *c:;v;.ts                     k.t.4.  rfr          '* IttD1                                                              tff         ;..a.t st.
$I *t ti t-w.l  .                                                 *v;  t               r; :a4,t. (letr. ItP.  "I,.   'ttit ;v.4l;st     L: ;wicis i'vsina'st. K,X
S1    S * I  ^   t ,  X   ,,, ,  ,r,   , ,,  ,        $t-*.                                 i' lt.;* Is,b *. ,.; ^,         tj s        *.'U's ft4¢.~~~~Iao. 1.1, . 'ot4.  I



Annex 1 (p.4)
;a-    me"Op
__   ____    _  _ __  _ n m    n g               r n t                             _                                                         -~~~Omu ra KM
S:C *ltll mpq1 brutlt                             Lt. 6mm         lwb~t 6      Us.    h        WtmurRt I  '. Itr              , SAI imi L   .a"   bisr., IS frta
0t- owl LuouP Lg*im                              S.C.  5UO          t wt go" 1M. 0E             WINaWP ttq.            lEA       Mi UNO bEy., ftL eq,. 10
I* te   at. Vsdt: khnct ud of 61C0to  fwgv        CA. ro=s. Jr.  kg * EtJ                      P p                     tE.       Fwwt r.C  trEltm   att oaffiltb
Sbb t    lt: I v 0* Mts twICt " btbvd     EwQt Vb   . baltUo      tS; Is. tJ*P                                          IEW    1,0% D,Cl
Modb  e S au %5144 tvnet to. sk Wks.t twos,   t   .ll  5...teA mtrS t tVrt                                      1       S1       kit"  Wt. uvIS&
tSt. (0. COeu9 d 09*5. ftf C1w.ttU               0.1.. AsUga      USl 5                           MPO, tt                        Oms. maW tL
kt tal StV i. AwlseowlI.s                        LL.t    a h      khW.                    .   aV al*"                   W        Srojt bo-L m_
kotwla     k DqtO4  iQhtJtts                      N.C. '4ta      tvmnaPA                        V ml-0                  9*       9t9 * I   C Li  It
Ip sn" C"as aIsb,.  .. 0il f t, t,att IWA EJ-CM                   high )NO                     *1  £                             fla"1,4 baI1. U
. frl auq Crme so Ot. fslolla  c4tMrh fi*tias     LC. k4w;illo    I*ae Is.                       IC*                    tw       SruinW  otfa M
lttIPIIt tnM lst,,a d ow ictv   Ests              Lt. A     I           ast, of La., a         UI-lE                   sw        f7jwq kw, tI
**thctncal  pliutws of   t t tra  &.s            Lt. Seea         I. dJ0-l&AW                                          IW        Wt.-    lay.                                                    1.^
bk4tteII rus ta    S1"tt cJ hotlst ws,            I. wn           kgle                         tl0-k#14                 ISeU     bAlsa tUtu  ks.. W
OVA[m   'A$bt tlst ts                            t.l,v Olasu     t004lW                        "M-ebfO                &1S        f,onttm tel* fw
Slt  b rW U      logo                            L.ull   u        k0- sadA                      " W                   -IV °      fRawas fSntq   Is
Stt * %%sl In. of lLl twoa U. faw# Jr.   tt4                                                   Itus. tt                          U,ow SaW.
5 .  -    boct. d.o to  ar tt fWu                KV. V-AllO       ua SoIt                                              IV *t    4     , b   % _   ,
SWv MS  U1   r 0 lnas"  S Bit   W   tfof. &ON5^  P.fw   r         tl * 6 A                      tut                     M *Odb  kw# at4       *
fh *   w ON ks  t WxIia    40. 6 &   ftf,ttr. 5wP,  LA. 00 lt  tt S                          Mflt                   IV 11     ,a bte"of
Stt *&  th. aX tvN   f 6t Ul. b0. kgv. It1 So  LL ,A       1 111                             vol                      M    .     it : oo hbKt  C"
Itrdtq  tUS t6 u . tF6             StA. Ltil r                    MSt. Lt.                      "             t        Sl   t      d"W     lUbAt W
ltw  fFttl tbsett 5owtat                         L.t. $0o         Uw rflntt tjbr,v M6          wtstF                    M        b rv tEr.
%"frm  tb* d   6 t ttC              t             *.. hteO        uto. IL.                     0t11,M                          W       1   m
ft-l#Mtd go of Cv   twon J.. taw                                  sow.e L,.        ,         1 W-bttu                  M    t       id & qrSW
ot~    41 %tqo                                    J.s SWe6    6tr*ed tkWsmtt tS         f      ttAl                              ANS   folr tws.,
Sttq'                                             t.f.St kw"  Atatse  M  he-WfUt LtA4          tl                      tSSff     *wow (W.       **
ot~~~~ WK   t06P 



Annex 2
PNOC-Energy Development Corporation
LIST OF MAJOR TECHNICAL SERVICES & CONSULTANCY CONTRACTS
Present                     Date of
Contract               Centractor                 Effectivity Duration
1.  Cementation             T.A. Global Services           Jan. 1989    2 yrs
2.  Directional Drilling   B.J. Services Intl./             Jan. 1989    2 yrs
Halliburton Services
3.  Pipe Inspection         Ace Insp. & Supply Services   Jan. 1989    2 yrs
4.  Pipe Hardfacing         Ace Insp. & Supply Services   Jan. 1989    2 yrs
5.  Consultancy             KRTA                            Jan. 1989    1 yr                   V
Notes Contracts are subject to periodic negotiations/renewal
032989



Annex 2
PNOC-Energy Development Corporation
LIST OF TECHNICAL SERVICES & CONSULTANCY CONTRACTS
For projects covered by WB Loan 2203-PH
Date                                  Date of
Contract            Bidded          Awarded to           Effectivity      Duration
1.  Directional Drilling       Nov. 1982    Dowell Schlumberger        Jan. 1983       1 yr
2.  Cementation                Nov. 1982    Dowell Schlumberger        Jan. 1983       1 yr
3.  Logging and Fishing        negotiated   Schlumberger Overseas    Apr. 1982         1 yr
4.  Logging and Fishing        negotiated   Scientific Drilling        July 1982       1 yr
Controls
5.  Pipe Inspection            Feb. 1982    AMF Tubescope              Apr. 1982       1 yr
6.  Pipe Inspection            Feb. 1982    Vetco International        Apr. 1982       1 yr
7.  GTC-EDC Consultancy*                     KRTAIPNOC-EDC             Jan 1982
8.  Cementation                Nov. 1983    Halliburton Services**   Jan. 1984         1 yr
9.  Directional Drilling       Dec. 1985    T.A. Global Services       Nov. 1986       3 mos
10. Pipe Hardfacing            Oct. 1985    Vetco International        Nov. 1986       8 moB e
11. Cementatio                 Mar. 1987    B.J. Services Intl.**    June 1987         7 moe
12. Pipe Inspection            Oct. 1987    Ace Insp. & Supply
Services**             Jan. 1988      1 yr
Notes  Contracts were subject to periodic negotiationsJrenewal
* Joint company formed by PNOC-EDC and KRTA of New Zealand
** Present Contract
032989



- 37 -
Amnex 3
PNOC - ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
LOAN 2203 PHx SEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENTS:  JAN 1983 - DEC 1988
In Million US$
YgAR  QDIRTER    _        1 I S B U R 5 E M gE-,JTS
LOCAL                FORE:G0"_
WORLD   BILATERAL
?_AN*IK    A. r D   W&     TOTAL
Up to Dec. 1982   4.400                      4.200    4.20s'
1983  01         2. 800    .532    .2:4      .209    5.955
02          3.000    2.831    .21 3     .000   _3. c44
03          2.000     .727    .213   1:.161   2.101
04          1.200    .349   -2 3       1. 5.8  2!.1
Sub-total   9.000    4.439    .865     7.90S   13.200
1584  Q1           .400      .225    . '_.*   . I.     . 445
02          2.3 W     .208 3   .2:;    1.029    1.456
03          2.457     .624    . . ?  .  .986     .3?29
04           Z74      *0.51   .2;q      .'0    _4_0  Q
Suoa-total  5.871    1.108   .*.37      .iS-    5.000
1985  G1           .00*Q    .707    . 0b i    .0o00    .797
02           .  )000  .493    .9        . :?060    .5a2
03  .010  .066    . oaq   .000    .1*5
04             105-   .000   .089      .000
Sub-total    .115    1.266   .357       . 00)   162:>
1986  QI          *.000    .£047   .t083     .* Oki     I 130
02           . £ dO   .027   .083_    .000       .110
0:3         .014      .113   .083       .00      . .196
04          .007      ,  .015    .3     .00L txo  .098
Sub-total    . 021    .202    .* 32 2    000    .534
1987 Q1             Ol't)    .038    . O8    .oot,    .12t
02          1.294     .1;32    . :35    . 000    .215
03          2.l90     .014    . 08      .000)   .0397
Q4          .931    .368    . O8:,    .000    .451
Sub-total   4.425     .552    .332      . 0'x0   . 884
1988  a1          1.462    .368    . 0:A:O    .758    1.126
Q2                   .167   .000                .167
0 3         1. * 920    .063    . 0t0   .272     . 335
Q4          2.SiO     .0765   .ot:zb   1A.835    1.900:
Sub-total   5.952     .663   .t)Qv     2.865    3. 5 8
T 0 T A L        29.784    8.230   2.751    17.988   28.969
032989



- 38 -
Annex 4
11.  RMLINS MW    I SUTAS 0W   L16. EL TIW PRET
As of Cgcar Si, I&M  (Il : lliio t5 Dollas)
R    E   a -U   I  R  E i     d *     T  U  A  L  S
FORE I 6N IF                                jf    j 6
L0fL      NB Oml--        1WAL      LL         i     OM       MTAL
6EOSCIOTIFIC SIU0TE5
Painpinw   11.25 *   -                     -     .292       .292      -              .m
aSc-I I                 .J        -        -     .3         .6AN      -        -     .6:4
Other Aie
z.Mes                 .328      -        -     .32        .20       -        -     .20
S$m                   .6        -        -     .63        .047      -        -      O7
nin4aaao              .493      -        -     .493       .135      -               X5
inc-Ite1                -       -        -       -        .44       -        -     .446
*ta                     -       -        -       -        .024      -       -      .024
Crutr Svicns                    .35              . .35      '       .35       -       *
Pahnpim  Oi il)         VA      1.4      4.9     10.1       3.8     C.       1.7     10.1
SIc-NM UllZITLT els) 0.9        3.7      9.8        4      89       10.5    3.0      22.4
uSac-     ILTm1i)         -       -       -       .0        -         _       _       .0
Mthu km  lb mi          4.2      .6      2.9     7.1        4.6     4.7       .4     9.7
3aL & A       STE    5.6          -       -      5.t       10.1       -       -      I).!
s$iLES                 .01      .02       -      .03         -      .02       -      .02
IM!flI3        -       -               .0                  -        -     .u
TENICTL ASSISTIa         .6     l.t     1.6      3.8        .6      1.6      1.6     36
FRrJa-EeFEE               - 55'5~'
.rOff-    FEE  .3          .,         *    0            -  _ 5
1D3LOcAED                        -        -      .00         -    -                  .0
T o T A L         Z5.:4    L2       19.2   52S5D       2.. 34   22.21    6     Si54
**Revised Project Estimate
* T  figqw. ref       eligible kg finmang, howow. m1v   25   f  iiAa
wa the awnt   tlly f im tr the Wi the rest was  wdulted by FIXt.



Annex 5
FWECT          s 6oth4aual Exploration
FROJELT cai ESTIME  EMIlUES I CMTN StTIA
JfthiUW_L..
awaninq
___     l. .  __E           dLL    h1 A    ... QLi £8  LQIIiA.t!£             j _ -  ......                          lost tu
total        alae of                  CW4iete
riginal      First                 !-cicd     .kend                    Ibis   hD remt            utitdanino    lotal      ProDjt
S "tBslI.i^~~~Adll  ii. WIN&                           0   wti  ICO.                        ino  leo. "               F,10)
I1)       12)        13)        14)          15)          10)       47)          1            (9)          110)         Hfi,
1. EWTI,1 ILERlS
/ MW       "              21.0      112.003     9.0        14.90)      4.10          4.03      .00          4.03          .01         4.04          .06
2. FlEL                      1.3         .00       1.30        .8)        .S2           .52       .00          .52           .Q0         .2            .00
L Al C LtMTSI IB1E
FR IPMT BOF TE
F9WECT                  1.5        .02        1.52       .00         1.52         1.S9      .02          I.bl          .01         1.62         1.10)
FOR PMt C OF TIE
FItOJLT                  .7        .00        .70       1.70)        .00          .00        .00         .00           .00          .00          .00
c) iRAINIlS am   PAT 9
OF THE RMT               .0        .00        .00        .00         .00          .00       .00          .00           .00          .00          .00
4. a) 1ItiE  EfISB
FDRP MT A.2 F THE
F8AOECt                4.1        12.;il      1.31       ,t)         1.31         1.31      .00          1.31          .00         1.31          .00
FO  MT U   F DES
MUT                     1.4        .00        1.0       41.30)       .1          .19        .03         .22           .00          .22         (.12)
S. fEE                       .'..        .0        .53         .          .53           .53       .           .53           .Al          .53 ,0
3.23                 1.09
6. III5.4OFTE1 -00 L°°                                                                                      W        WO                                      .
18.00                  9.77
1 0  1 A L         36.0     4           17.73      IM,wa       (5.23         8.17       .14         B.22          .02         (.24         .A
Disrepany of 1.01 (revised loan was $0.23) was due to rowina oft.



- 40 -
PMlt Illt
STATISTICAI IEFOMIATION
1.    elated lak Loa   for Ohelout of Enyrgy   sorc
Loan                  Ppose                Year of
Titl  IID.                                  Approval             Status            Commnts
Coal Exploration       Exploring for           Ft 192         Copleted          Reser    proved;
12101 PIl              coal                                                     Difficult to
devlop
Petroleuo mxplo-       Attract oil             FT 199         Copleted          Oil com in
ration promotion       compies                                DOcmber 19        attracted
/2201 PR
Petroleum  xplo-       Attract oil             FT13           Completed         Oil comaies
ration promotion       compains                               Deemer 16          ttraCted
/2202 P1
lan Haito 00-          Pme supply to           FT 1988        Loa effectiv      Proresf just
therm    Powr          Luzon I araial of                      from Decbr    c_omed
Project                 eotherml fields                       1968
/2969 pH



- 41 -
2.  Poject Tisetable
Ite                  bte Planned         Dte Revised        Date Actual
-Ifdtificatiom
(Exec. Project
tummary)           1M0o                                    1930
-Preparation          lte 1901                                Late 1981
-Appralil             Fbruay, 1962                            February, 192
-Lom   gotiation      August, 1962                            August, 1962
-bard Approval        Septewt, 1962                           Segtemr 30, 1962
-Loa  Siatur          October, 1962                           October 26, 1962
-Loan Closing         Dceber 31, l196    Decembr 31, 198  DOrceber 31, 198l
-Copletion report   June 30, 16            June 30, 1M        ,une 30, 1989



- 42 -
3. Loan Oiburssermts
Cumulative Estioated and Actual Disbursements
(US   illion)
IBRD F1 M                        1984   1995   1904   1987   190   1m
Appraisal Estimate                  0.0    17.0   26.0  34.0  36.0
(1)
Revised October 85 estimate                        0.0   20.0  20.0  20.0
(2)
kctual                              3.4     4.9    6.8    6.9    7.2    0.1   8.23
ktulal s I of (1)                    43      29     26      20     41     41
ctulals I of (2)                                    85      35    3t      41     41
Date of final Disburse mnt                 February 198
Note: $ 18.0 4illion of the loan am*unt vas cancelled in Deceer 195 and
S 9.77 sillion in February 1998. $1,105 was undramn n loan closing.



- 43 -
4. Project loplementatimn
Indicators         Apprisal Estimate           Actual         I fulfilumnt          Coomnts
Exploratory wlls
Palinpinon                  4                    4
bhun4anito                 t1                   12
Othbr Luzon                 B                    4                             lhdget Constraints
a                       Low enthlpy                 2                     1
25                  238                 92
Policy Studies
Priorities for        b ono different         Not Done                          Sufficient Data
exploration            Luzon Prospects                                          not available for
initiating study
Steam pricing          Uases for              Done
contracting
Reserves Studies          Ivo fields             Done
$ Two wells were homever spudded in December 1980 and financed wholly by PIOC-DC.



- 44 -
5.  Project Costs and Finanting
As  ProJect Costs
Appraisal Estiiate of                  Actl aI
--19 million---- -US  gillio-
lorld     Other                    lorld   Othr
Loutl  ank    Foreign   total   Local    Bnk  Forip   Total
moscientific Studies
Palinpinon                             1.3                         1.3     .35                         .35
hcon-uito                              3.8                         3.0     .71                        .77
Other Luton                            2.4                         2.4    1.04                        1.04
Computer Services b                                                                 .35                .3S
Exploration Drilling
Palinpinon                             3.5      4.0      1.4      10.9    5.91    1.34    4.94       12.21
Dacon-Raito                            5.4    11.5       2.8      19.9   13.58    3.02   10.48       2.048
Otber LUzoI                            4.1      8.1      2.0      14.2    6.63    1.3      3.3       11.73
Studie
Policy Studies                         0.2      0.7        -       0.9
'srvoir studin                          -       0.3        -       0.3              .02                .02
Technical Assistance                      0.7      1.2      1.0       2.9    1.55    1.0      1.52       4.7
use cost                                 21.4    27.8       7.2      54.4   29.03    7.70   20.4        511.22
Phsical contingency                    2.0      3.6      0.9       4.7     -        -       -
Price contingency                      2.9      3.9      0.9       7.7     -                -          -
Total projet cost                        24.5    35.5       9.0      71.0   29.83    7.70   20.49       58.22
Front nd fee                            -       O.5                0.5              .53                .53
TOTAL                                    26.5    36.0       9.0      71.5   29.83    8.23 cl 20.69 dl   8.75
al Appraisal estisate use P 8.31$ 1.00 and actual ue the echange rate
effective at the tie the expenditure is incurred.
bi Reresents foreign exchange costs allocated to the project for the rmote
subsystm  and associated services of the P    sismic procesing cpter
being used by PllOC-E0C for its geotherml activities.
cl PIOC-EDC was qualified to draw another $14 million from the World Dank, but
it chose to deplete its inntory and not replenish stock in the enoic
conditions then prevaillng.



45 -
Bs Project Financing
Planned loan   I        hvised    2        FInal    a
Sornce            Agreesmnt         (kctober 1985)        (Actual)              Comments
o illionl)          (soillionl          S million)
eoclmn. sues                                                      0.5
tEploration Drilling      25.6                15.6                5.73
tolicy Studis              0.7                 0.7
Rbeurvoir Studies          0.3                 0.3                0.02          a/
TIcdi cal  ssistnce        1.2                 1.2                1.60          PIOC-EOC was eligible to
Fe                         0.5                 0.5                0.53          drew$22 iliiio  frl   the
Cmotlnecl                  7.7                 1.5                              Bant, if it had chosn
-    _    -                  -    -                  to replenish all *ateial
36.0      50        20.0      33       C.23 a1   14 used in drillino 23out of
25 project cells.
811^t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 re1K WIS
Exploration Drilling       7.6                 5.3                3.  bi       bil
Technical Assistance       1.2                 1.2                2.75          Cost of rig depreciation
== -   -    -    -    - -  - rigs originally financed
9.0      13         6.5      12       6.69      11 un_er bilateral credits.
StKd  drAdMa Cl                                                14.00      24  cl
Loca   rncq               26.5      3         26.5       SO      29.3       51  PIIOC-C usd its am
-         -    Inventory to drill sval
43.63      75  project  ells but did not
sequently relace
-         - -           -                   thouh qulified to do so
71.5    100         3.0      100      58.75     100 using Bank fonds.
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 46 -
6. Project Results
AS Direct Btoftits
Estimted at       Estiated at
Indicators         Appraisal Estiate    Closing date    full developmnt
t
At appraisal direct benefits  ere not indicated to quantifial t.rf
but the isportance of geothermal nergy as a least cost pomr option Hil
underlined. The project has helped to substantiate the assption and
has led to cmercial developmnt of a number of gethermal fleldes
hacon Nanito 1, Palinpinon 1. Some others vill tollos potential
having ben proved.
3:  Economic lpact
Appraisal Estite                 Actual
Ecnomic Eate   Not  arked out            bth prospets tested by Explo.
of Return       being an exploration     drilling had comrcial steam.
project                 One has be  taken up for deve-
lopmnt and pomr generatio.
The mole project is expected
to have a m E. The returns
on the other geotherml fields
discovered during this loan,
can only be assesd on
comerciality dectisions being
taken.



- 47 -
Cs Finncial Ilpact
Future vith
tithut Project            Project                   Actual
Financia l Rate
tof return                                                      Goet. policy is to llow a fair
Not worked cut at                  price for steas. This is sen
Other fionial               appraisal, this being               to yield a return froo 12 to 1IZ
indicators                  an exploration project             on remvlued investents at
comeentceent of production in
Fiscal lepact                                                   each fieldl Escaltions apply
thafter. PNDCIPIIOC-EOC have
show better finacial resalts
on geotherml account.
3:  Studies
Studies          Furpose as defined
at Appraisal             Status      lmpact of Study       couments
Prioratiution          Guidance on welghts        bDt done                       Preliminary data
among diffent          to be giveo to kinds                                      available  as too
prospects in           of preliminary data                                       scant and dk ay
Lemon                  collected and                                             occurred in new
sh_duled for col-                                        data being
lectios prior to                                         collected due to
the study                                                budget constraints
gase for stem          For fair clase              Done       Reolved long
pricing                in contracts for                        standing dispute
sale of steamt etwe  PIC ad
WC for one fieldl
epected to be a
model for nw
contracts
es"erve estimatn       Dettrmine comercialal       Done
in to fields           resermes by Indoep-
dent consultants



48 -
7.  Status of Covnts
aline for
CoVeat                Subject          cospliance                  States
Loun Agrmt
Section 3.05        Policy Studie        ceWr 31, 190   Stea  price study comloted afte a
4 yr delayl study o prioratiuatimn
Section  .04        Tialy completion                       Completd with sm  delay
of Stea contracts
beta. PIIOC I PC
for Palinpilno I
Project Agrent
Bection 2.011b)     Anual rvle by                         DM
Oak of PC-OC-'s
euploratios proram
Suction 2.06        Carrry ut the                         gne
rsrve studies for
Palinpinon 11 ad
Dac-fito
Sectio  4.03        Debt/Equity ratio                     Ceoplied with
Of PIIOC-C aot to
emceed 4040
Setion 4.04         Current ratio of                      Compied with
owr 1.5 to be
mintaind by
PEC-0C
Guarantee Agremt
Section 2.02(a)     Sufficint fnds                        Complild with
to b enred to
Mc -         EOC-



- 49 -
8.   Use of Dank Resources
A:   Staff Inputs
Planned              Revised              Final
Stage of              ------------          ------------         ------------
Project Cycle            Ha      Field         HO      Field         HQ     Field          Coarents
-------------------Staff heeks---------------------
Through Appraisal                                                       30.0    49.4
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                                          76.5
Board Approval
through effectiveness                                                    6.5
Supervision
5.5    103.4
TOTAL                                                                   118.5   152.8
271.3



- 50 -
8:   missions
Stage of        tonthl  Nuuber of       Days in  Special isation  Perforoance        Types of
Project Cycle        year    persons        field   represennted  It Rating status2/  problems 31
Through Appraisal
Appraisal thrwqh
Board Approval
Board Approval
through effectiveness
Supervision 1            09182       2          3        a,d                     I
Supervision 2            02183       4         11        a,b,d,e                  1
Supervision 3            07/83       4         16        a,b,d,e                  1
Supervision 4            02/84       4         13        a,b,d,e                  I
Supervision 5            08/84       4          13       a,b,d,e                  I
Supervision 6            05/85       3          11       a,b,d                   2            f
Supervision 7            05186       2          9        a,d                     2            F
Supervision 8            11186       3          10       a,c,d                   2            f
Supervision 9            01/88       2          7        c,d                     2            F
Supervision 10           11/88       1           1       c           Project completion Dec. 31, 1988
It a- Econooist, b- Geothermal specialist, c- Petroleum Engineer,
d- Financial analyst, e- Procurement Specialist.
2/ 1- Probles free or minor, 2- loderate problems
31 F- Financial Govt. constraints on expenditure.



- 51 -
C:   Costs lif available fro* HIS)
Average I Cost of   Average I Cost of
Stage of         Total & Cost of      HO Activities per  Field Activity per
Project Cycle         Staff Inputs         hission heeber      hission Hesber
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval                               Not Available
Board Approval
through effectiveness
Sugervision



6  120                                        I24- 
PHILIPPINES
20-
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
I    Bank Geothmal Proect Site
Otfir Non-Bank Gtmol Pomiet Sifes.
*        Under Develpment
O        Under Elaorolimn
I                           --   ~~~~~~~~~~Faults
I                                        -- Inrnanal sbwdarm
Kiwt,.,           l0IT      200        300
L U/ZON
16'                                                                                                                                                     18'
Mt Pnatubo              ,                    Mobile Zone
,Morib \
*Mocbin     \. De Gollego
*Mabini         \
\ iwi 0
Montelagob                    B\ on Monito
MINDORO   .Itn
,  \-  \    SAMAR                          12-
5                         \e8;~~~~~~~~~~~Bliven
PAINAY                      O\Tonga
Stoble Reaion             '3G
PAAAWAAI
CHINA    ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~MINDANAO
CHINA          7                                                           /             G            NO                          *
CVIETNAM         rtWb                                                      S
i  ,   ' e    Sjf,S'IAY'ASC_ '\
M.IAWAN
_IN44NAO
BRUNEI,~
MALAYSIA                                                                               .     o   p,eerby Oh W,B tfc*       0r. tt Iy h, rh canoian.
X    j  .                                                   OtD*ttOt~~~~~~~~leWhfohlJ&"tA- d.  . A- C svWeMV.* -
,,,s,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000, _.   -                  tw,b         o , Oh lop. .0.Uoo of oty wrto,v o,., ,odtttl n.
t N DANE-S  IA                                120-                                       0        4
. _  20,,   _   .                                   4



