Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  CGPY
Report No. P-3360-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$36.0 MILLION
TO THE
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
September 8, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (P) (100 centavos)
P 1.00          = US$0.120
US$1.00         = P 8.3
ABBREVIATIONS
BED      -  Bureau of Energy Development
BOE      -  Barrels of Oil Equivalent
KRTA     -  Kingston, Reynolds, Thom and Allardyce (NZ)
kW       -  Kilowatts
MMBOE    -  Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent
MWe      -  Megawatts (electrical)
NPC      -  National Power Corporation
ODA      -  Official Development Assistance
PNOC     -  Philippine National Oil Company
PNOC-EDC - PNOC Energy Development Corporation
PNOC-EDI - PNOC Energy Drilling Incorporated
PNOC-GTC - PNOC Geothermal Technology Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC)
Guarantor:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:       PNOC Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC)
Amount:            $36.0 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:           PNOC would relend the proceeds of the loan to PNOC
Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC) under the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
Project
Description:    The primary objectives of the proposed project are to
improve the national strategy for geothermal exploration,
with particular emphasis on exploring new areas close to the
Manila market, and to help strengthen the geothermal policy
development of the Government, PNOC and National Power
Corporation, and facilitate the involvement of the private
sector. The proposed geothermal exploration program
consists of: (a) geoscientific studies to determine poten-
tial drilling locations; (b) drilling of about 25 wells
as follows: 4 wells at Palinpinon (Southern Negros) and
11 wells at Bacon-Manito (Southern Luzon) to prove
sufficient reserves for a 110 MWe power generating unit at
each location; two shallow wells for non-power steam at
Bacon-Manito; and 8 wells in other prospective locations on
Luzon; (c) four studies, including two geothermal
exploration/ development policy studies and studies to
determine the extent of reserves at Palinpinon and
Bacon-Manito; and (d) technical assistance, in the
implementation of the exploration program. Part of the
technical assistance would be financed by New Zealand, Italy
and Japan, the balance out of the Bank loan. The project
would bring two prospective areas, which form a logical part
of the national power program, to the stage where firm
development decisions can be taken, and would identify
prospective areas close to potential markets which warrant
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
expanded exploration. The policy studies would enable the
Government to take a more carefully developed approach to
the priorities of future exploration locations and to steam
supply contract options, and would encourage the foundation
of an integrated basis for decisions on non-power steam
developments.
The risks of the project are rather less than for oil
exploration. Both Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito are areas
with demonstrated geothermal potential, and the very nature
of geothermal makes it unlikely that no resource exists in
any of the areas chosen for in-depth investigation. The
risks essentially are economic, e.g. how productive are the
wells, how costly, how many how big is the resource. These
have not, however, been problems in the four commercial
fields now under development in the Philippines.
Cost Estimate:                            Local/a    Foreign        Total
----------$ Million----------
Geoscientific Studies
Palinpinon                               1.3          -            1.3
Bacon-Manito                             3.8          -            3.8
Other Luzon                              2.4          -            2.4
Exploration Drilling
Palinpinon (4 wells)                     3.5          7.4         10.9
Bacon-Manito (13 wells)                  5.6         14.3         19.9
Other Luzon (8 wells)                    4.1         10.1         14.2
Studies                                    0.2          1.0          1.2
Technical Assistance                       0.7          2.2          2.9
Base Cost                                 21.6         35.0         56.6
Physical contingencies                   2.0          4.7          6.7
Price contingencies                      2.9          4.8          7.7
Total Project Cost                26.5         44.5         71.0
Front-end fee                                -          0.5          0.5
Total Financing Required          26.5         45.0         71.5
/a Includes taxes of about $2 million.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
World Bank Loan                              -           36.0         36.0
Bilateral Aid (New Zealand, Italy,
Japan)                                     -            1.0          1.0
PNOC                                        26.5          8.0         34.5
Total                                26.5         45.0          71.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1983      1984      1985      1986     1987
…----------    $ million…--------------
Annual                          8.0        9.0      9.0       8.0       2.0
Cumulative                     8.0        17.0     26.0      34.0      36.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No separate report.
Map:  IBRD No. 16643






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), to be guaranteed by the
Republic of the Philippines, for the equivalent of $36.0 million, to help
finance a geothermal exploration project.  The loan would have terms of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
About $35 million of the loan would be on-lent to PNOC Energy Development
Corporation (PNOC-EDC) under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Selected Issues for
the 1983-87 Plan" (No. 3861-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors
under SecM82-542, dated June 16, 1982. A special report, "Aspects of Poverty
in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under SecM80-919. Country data
are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Vocational Training Project which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on September 1, 1982.



-2
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated
in the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives
the rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic,
social and regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the popu-
lation. The agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diver-
sification, and stronger linkages with processing industries. The indus-
trial strategy calls for promotion of export industries, development of
small- and medium-scale industries, regional dispersion of industrial
growth, increased efficiency of investment, and selected large-scale pro-
jects. The Plan includes social development targets in education, housing,
health, and family planning. In addition, the Plan outlines development
strategies for each of the country's 13 regions. A recently completed Food
and Nutrition Plan, which complements the Development Plan, aims at elimin-
ating malnutrition by 1990 through increased food production and nutrition
programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country's development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.



-3-
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.5% in 1980./i
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains around 40%. Income distribution
continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously wealthy.
Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of poverty
reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of people,
especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe
water, basic education and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable
man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands,
limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp
deterioration in the external terms of trade have put downward pressure on
real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs during
the 1970s that should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these
were implemented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and
will require several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to
alleviate poverty will be the development of rainfed agriculture, more
balanced regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment,
continued improvement in basic public services, and further reduction of
population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of
the labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s,
the agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high
proportion of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment
stagnated in the first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly
thereafter as labor-intensive export production grew.  Overseas employment,
especially in the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary
income opportunity. As the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector
is limited, employment generation in manufacturing will have to increase
considerably in the 1980s.
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment
rose sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



- 4 -
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation
of capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s,
the efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determin-
ants of future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines' macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the agricul-
ture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s, which is
quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and rice self-
sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and non-
traditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains
low because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not
yet attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable
land is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been
logged over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure ques-
tions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsis-
tence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.



- 5 -
16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.6 billion in 1981. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expan-
sion has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the
rest of the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality
of domestic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export
industries have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise
heavily protected economy.
17.       The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to accel-
erate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manufac-
tured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the
Philippines' structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the
1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort
to reduce its dependence on imported oil. The Government has not only
passed on oil price increases to consumers, but has also increased taxes
and levies on oil products with the result that domestic oil prices are
considerably above import parity. These price increases, combined with
direct conservation measures, resulted in a reduction of commercial energy
consumption in 1980 and 1981. Steps to increase and diversify domestic
energy supply have also continued and include the development of hydro-
electric, geothermal, coal, and nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum
production also began in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period of
energy projects, domestic energy production still constituted only 16% of
total commercial energy consumption in 1980. In response to the "second oil
crisis", the Government is accelerating its program for domestic energy
production, but further taxing and pricing initiatives will also be needed
to restrain demand.



-6-
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s,
gross national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and
financing about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs
to rise by another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while
simultaneously limiting the current account deficit and the country's
reliance on foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other finan-
cial incentives affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment,
the flexibility and competitiveness of the financial system, and the
maturity of lending all needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the
Government introduced a comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest
rates are being substantially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal,
and rediscount policies are being introduced. Legislation to encourage
multipurpose banking has also been adopted to reduce the present excessive
specialization and fragmentation of the financial system and to increase
competition.
20.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the over-
all level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going
to economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total
government expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment
equalling 6.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made
possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in transporta-
tion, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban develop-
ment, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with the country's development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are
likely to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible
by a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming
from domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes
on international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points
to 13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the
last few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the
Government and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further
expansion in infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are



-7-
needed to raise the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity
by increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to
eliminate remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the
long-term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to
30% in 1981. The current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion in 1981,
equivalent to 6% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be main-
tained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance of
payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a sustainable
level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with respect to
trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19), and
improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly
through improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy
measures will require a number of years to effect the needed structural
improvement in the balance of payments. The current account deficit,
therefore, is expected to remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually
during the first half of the 1980s, while declining in relative terms to
about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance
the balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price
increase. During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from
medium- and long-term loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt
service ratio stood at 20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital
will be needed during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price
increase, and net disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will have
to double again in the next five years. If the Philippines can sustain the
strong export performance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would
remain at about 20%.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consulta-
tive Group Meeting, held in June 1982, agreed that it would be reasonable
for the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about
$1.2 billion during 1983, similar to ODA commitments sought for 1982.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many
projects planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary
resource transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs
of projects and non-project lending.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.55 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$143.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%.  These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively,
by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
28.       The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $450 million per year in FY78-82. Although the Bank has financed
projects in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been
given to agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total
Bank/ IDA lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the
transportation sector. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors
followed in declining order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending
remained fairly stable throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place
only within infrastructure as lending for transportation and power declined in
the second half of the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban
development was initiated during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In
the industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on
strengthening individual development finance institutions and on providing
for the credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years,
however, industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the
implementation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was
made in September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improve-
ments in financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial
Finance Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden
the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the
Central Bank.
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than anti-
cipated. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as
compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the fiscal year)
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Vocational Training Project which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on September 1, 1982.



- 9 -
declined marginally from about 18% in FY78 to about 16.7% in FY82./1 The
Bank-wide average was 21.5% in FY82; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Morocco were 24.4% and 13.7% respectively in the same year./2 Implementation
problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting, in part, administrative
problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints (para. 21).
They also result from the changes in the scope of the Bank's lending
operations: a substantial increase in the number of projects, new areas of
lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach specific
target groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a more
demanding task than in the past. The first project implementation review was
held in May 1980, at which time, among other issues, the relatively poor
disbursement performance was discussed. Steps were subsequently taken to
correct some of the administrative problems which were delaying implementa-
tion. A second review, held in February 1982, provided a useful follow-up and
exchange of views on problems still being experienced in project implementa-
tion. During the February review, the Government and the Bank agreed that
similar reviews would be held in future on a regular basis.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will address the wide variety
of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the Philippines.
Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support further policy
reforms in trade, industry, energy and other key sectors. In sectoral terms,
agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the largest
share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the incomes of the rural poor. Substantial assistance will be given to
industry through further subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing
specific subsectors; through increased financial and technical assistance to
small and medium industries, particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and
through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the recently intro-
duced "apex" concept. Increased support is also planned to develop domestic
energy resources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for developing
and managing energy supplies. The Bank's support for projects in education,
water supply, urban development and, possibly, health and family planning,
will aim at improving basic services and creating employment, particularly in
less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the third loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for rubber development, rural
water supply, regional cities development and agricultural credit, and a
second structural adjustment loan have been appraised and are scheduled for
Board presentation in the coming months.
/I Excludes disbursements under the first Structural Adjustment Loan. If
included, the ratio increases to 21.8%.
/2 Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs.



- 10 -
PART III - ENERGY SECTOR /1
Introduction
33.       For many years, the Philippine energy situation was characterized by
a heavy dependence on imported oil and limited activity in exploration and
development of indigenous energy resources. At the same time, its relatively
low energy consumption per capita grew at a rapid pace in line with
urbanization and industrialization. In the wake of the 1973 oil crisis, the
Government moved promptly to reduce the country's dependence on imports by
increasing the efficiency of energy use through domestic pricing policies
among other means, by initiating measures such as investment incentives to
stimulate the discovery and development of the country's energy endowment in
hydro, geothermal and coal and by strengthening and improving coordination
among national energy agencies. This strategy has already been successful in
reducing oil consumption per unit of output, improving the knowledge of the
country's potential, and developing alternatives to imported oil.
34.       Oil imports in 1981, nevertheless, were about 30% of total imported
goods, having grown from 12% in 1973. The value of oil imports was about
$2.4 billion, amounting to about 30% of foreign exchange earnings. Within
commercial energy use (about 88 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBOE) in
1980), oil accounted for 88% of consumption, of which 95% came from imports;
hydropower supplied 7% of commercial energy needs, geothermal power, not in
use a few year ago, 4%, and coal only 1%. Within the Government's framework
of existing policies, therefore, it is clear that much 'remains to be done to
promote exploration and develop further a rational strategy for a countrywide
search for energy resources, to rank priorities in capital-intensive
developments given the scarcity and high cost of capital, and to rationalize
the structure of domestic prices.
Energy Context
35.       Energy Consumption.  Despite the rapid growth of commercial energy
consumption over the past two decades, per capita commercial energy use in
the Philippines at about 1.8 BOE (1980) was still only about 30% of that for
/1 Additional information on the energy sector is given in the report
entitled "Philippines: Energy Sector Survey" (February 12, 1982,
Report No. 3199a-PH), based on the findings of a joint World Bank/Asian
Development Bank mission in April-May 1980.



countries at similar income levels and only about 5% of the average for
industrialized countries. Before 1973 the growth rate of commercial energy
consumption was on average about twice that of the economy (GDP), which
was growing at over 5% per year. Since 1973 the situation has changed
substantially. During 1975-79, commercial energy consumption and GDP
increased at 5.6% and 6.6% per annum, respectively; energy consumption
estimates for 1980 and 1981 show a decline in total energy use. Industry and
transportation are the major consumers, accounting for about 80% of commercial
energy consumption in recent years. Since 1975, there have been important
changes in the sectoral pattern of energy use, with the share of industry
rising and that of transport declining. High gasoline prices have generally
restrained consumption growth in the transport sector; however, in the
industrial and power generation sectors, despite a moderation of past trends,
energy consumption has continued to grow at a fairly rapid rate. Electricity
consumption has been growing at about twice the rate of overall commercial
energy consumption, with industrial users accounting for about half of the
electricity sales.
36.       Domestic Energy Resources.  The Philippines has substantial and
largely undeveloped energy resources, but on the basis of the present
knowledge of its resource potential, it is unlikely that it will ever become
self-sufficient in energy. Nearly a third of primary energy consumption comes
from noncommercial sources, mostly firewood and bagasse. Accelerated efforts
to develop its indigenous resources and reduce the country's dependence on
imported oil started after 1973, and their impact is beginning to be felt.
The share of imported petroleum in commercial energy supply has decreased from
an average of 94% in the mid-1970s to 84% in 1980-81. This decline is
attributable to the initiation of production in the first commercial domestic
oil fields, growth of hydroelectric capacity, and recent commissioning of
geothermal power plants. The Government's present plan is to bring the
proportion of indigenous resources to about 45% of commercial energy supply by
1986 (coal 11%, geothermal 13.5%, hydro 13%, oil 0.5%, nuclear 4.5% and
nonconventional 2.5%); imported oil (45%) and coal (10%) would comprise the
remaining supply. Although some of these targets are overly ambitious and are
unlikely to be met, the policies are on the right lines and the actual explo-
ration and development work is proceeding well, leading toward a continuing
reduction in the share of imported oil in the country's energy supply.
37.       Institutional Framework.  In October 1977, Presidential Decree
No. 1206 (amended in June 1978) established the current organization of the
energy sector in the Philippines and created the Ministry of Energy as the
central policy, planning and regulatory agency in the sector. Line responsi-
bility in the Ministry is vested in two major bureaus: (a) the Bureau of
Energy Development (BED), responsible for the development of indigenous energy
resources and the regulation of local and foreign firms involved in such
activities; and (b) the Bureau of Energy Utilization, responsible for the
regulation of import, refining, marketing and distribution of crude oil and



- 12 -
petroleum products, and for the preparation and implementation of energy
utilization standards, conservation programs and demand and supply forecasts.
The Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC) and the National Power Corporation
(NPC) are the two major public corporations in the energy sector. They are
attached to the Ministry of Energy for program and policy coordination, and
the Minister serves as the Chairman of their respective Boards.
38.       Energy Policy.  Energy policy in the Philippines is a mixed
strategy to reduce the country's dependence on imported oil by: (a) diver-
sifying energy resources and developing indigenous resources; and (b) limiting
the growth of consumption of oil-based forms of energy and increasing
efficiency in energy-using activities. The supply strategy includes the
intensification of exploration for indigenous resources, use of hydroelectric
and geothermal energy for power generation, and utilization of coal in power
and industry as a fuel oil substitute. The Government's 1981-86 program
also includes experimentation with nonconventional energy sources and
development of pilot projects for resources that have economic potential;
biogas and coco-diesel are the most promising new sources for commercial use
within the next few years. Despite probable delays in implementation of some
of these projects, the share of indigenous energy supply is expected to
increase, although less than the program's targets.
39.       On the demand side, the focus of government policy has been energy
pricing. Retail prices of all petroleum products are well above import
parity. This policy has contributed to a reduction in consumption of
petroleum products, mostly in the transport sector, to about 72 MMBOE in
1981, the lowest since 1976. Taxes and duties on petroleum products have
generated a substantial amount of revenue which, among other uses, finances
investments in the energy sector. The structure of product prices, however,
does not fully reflect their relative scarcity (gasoline prices are nearly
double those of diesel and liquefied petroleum gas), and has led to imbalances
between supply and demand of specific products and some uneconomic fuel
substitution which could become serious if the distortions are not corrected.
The situation in the power sector is somewhat different. The Government has
recently embarked on a scheme to increase electricity tariffs each quarter
during the next 18 months; however, the level and structure of both wholesale
and retail tariffs are likely to need still further revision to meet both cash
generation and economic pricing objectives. The Bank expects to address the
Government's energy pricing policies in the context of future Bank lending.
A second component of the demand management strategy has been the conversion
and conservation program. The Government has given appropriate incentives to
accelerate the substitution of coal for fuel oil in industry, especially
cement, and is extending the use of geothermal and coal in power generation to
lessen the use of oil-fired plants. Regarding conservation, there has been a
campaign of information dissemination including seminars and courses for
industrial managers, and it appears that many housekeeping improvements to
conserve energy have been implemented.



- 13 -
Petroleum Products Consumption and Refinery Modifications
40.       Final consumption of petroleum products had increased between 1973
and 1979 from 67 to 82 MMBOE, but by 1981 it had decreased to about 72 MMBOE
and is targetted to continue falling to about 55 MMBOE by 1986. The reduc-
tions to date can be attributed to the Government's energy policies and the
stagnation in economic activity. The structure of demand has increasingly
diverged from the mix which the domestic refineries are capable of producing,
resulting in underutilization of refineries and doubling of net imports of
petroleum products since 1975. The Government has adopted, or is considering,
several remedies to reduce these growing imbalances. The most significant to
date has been the fuel oil replacement program in power and industry (para.
39). Pricing is being considered as a means of redirecting demand. Within
the refineries, some progress has been made in operating practices and can be
continued through changes in refinery configuration to increase diesel yield,
although there is a limit to such changes without incurring major investments.
As fuel substitutions increase, refinery constraints could become an important
issue.
Geothermal Resources, Exploration and Production
41.       Geothermal energy is steadily increasing in importance in the energy
economy of the Philippines. The country is relatively richly endowed with
geothermal resources due to its geographical location along the boundary zone
between the Pacific crustal plate and the adjacent continental plates.
Volcanism and crustal movements characterize this zone, providing favorable
conditions for the formation of geothermal systems. In this respect, the
Philippines may be grouped with countries such as Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia,
New Zealand and the west coast areas of North and South America, all of which
have abundant geothermal resources.
42.       In 1979, consultants visited 25 of the major geothermal manifesta-
tions in the Philippines and identified 11 as priority areas for further
investigation. In addition to these 11, there are eight other areas where
exploration drilling is planned or already under way, and several additional
areas where ongoing geoscientific work is likely to lead to additional
drilling prospects. Total geothermal resources are tentatively estimated at
8,000 megawatts (MWe). Four fields, Tiwi and MakBan on Luzon and Tongonan
and Palinpinon in the Visayas, are under development. Three overseas
companies are active - Union Oil (US) under a 1970 permit, Caltex (US) and
Total (France) under 1982 permits - and PNOC Energy Development Corporation
(PNOC-EDC), a subsidiary of the national oil company; two other overseas
companies are showing strong interest.
43.       At the end of 1981, 265 geothermal wells had been drilled in the
Philippines, principally in the four fields under development. Geological,
geophysical and geochemical analysis was in progress, or had been completed,
at six other sites. PNOC-EDC expects to initiate exploration activities at
additional sites in 1983. Progress to date has been good, although PNOC-EDC



- 14 -
needs to put additional effort into the initial geoscientific work to allow a
better choice of areas for exploration drilling; it has taken appropriate
steps to achieve this.
44.       The overall level of present and planned geothermal exploration
activity, when taken together with expected coal developments, should be
sufficient to meet load growth for power during the 1980s in both Luzon and
the Visayas, and to substitute for some present oil-based capacity. It will
also provide some nonpower geothermal steam supplies. Load growth from power
in the remaining area of the Philippines (Mindanao) is primarily to be met
from hydro.
Geothermal Based Power Capacity
45.       In 1969, a 2.5 kW geothermal pilot power plant was put into opera-
tion at Tiwi on Luzon, and by 1970 the National Power Corporation was given
the task of developing and exploiting the Tiwi field for power production,
which was done jointly with Union Oil. A pilot plant was also used in
developing the Makiling-Banahaw (MakBan) field on Luzon, about 60 kilometers
southeast of Manila. In 1976, PNOC-EDC was created and government activity in
geothermal resources development was placed under the supervision of this
agency, while NPC continued to construct and operate the geothermal power
stations. The first commercial geothermal power station of 3 MWe capacity
was put into operation in 1977 in Tongonan on Leyte in the Visayas, supplying
Ormoc City with electricity. Large-scale geothermal power production began in
1979 in the Tiwi and MakBan areas, when a 110 MWe power station was commis-
sioned in each area. At the present time, Tiwi has 330 MWe installed
capacity and MakBan 220 MWe. The total installed geothermal power capacity
in the Philippines is about 559 MWe (mid-1982), placing the country second
only after the United States in geothermal power generation. In addition, a
112.5 MWe plant is under construction at Tongonan, and a 112.5 MWe plant at
Palinpinon on Southern Negros in the Visayas (Palinpinon I).
46.       In 1980, the total electrical generating capacity of the Philippines
was 4,731 MWe* At that time, geothermal plant capacity accounted for about
10%. By the late 1980s, the share of geothermal energy will be 10-15% of
electricity generation capacity, or about 1,000 to 1,500 MWe, the precise
level depending on decisions yet to be taken in respect of further capacity at
Tongonan and the other sites to be explored under the proposed project.
Geothermal Legislation and Policy
47.       Geothermal exploration and development is governed by Presidential
Decree No. 1442 (The Geothermal Exploration and Development Act, 1978). The
terms apply equally to foreign and local contractors and joint ventures.
Contracts are administered by the Ministry of Energy through its Bureau of
Energy Development.



- 15 -
48.       Fromn a resource development perspective, geothermal has many
parallels with oil and gas, and in the Philippines they are administered
comparably. The basic features of the service contracts entered into by BED
for geothermal exploration, drilling and production are typical of petroleum
production-sharing agreements. Although details may be negotiated and
variations may occur, the contractor in all cases must take all exploration
and development risks, paying all costs and being reimbursed out of a share of
future production (the contractor's take is a maximum of 40% of net income).
The Government's intention is to pay for the steam at the 'power plant fence'
on a cost-related approach, with a firm contract price derived from estimated
costs and a target rate of return. This principle seems acceptable to the
international companies, although they continue to press for linkages to the
price of fuel oil. The service contract is supplemented by two prior
contracts for geoscientific studies: a geophysical survey contract - an
exclusive right to a contract area; and a geophysical permit - a non-exclusive
right to an area. There are few geothermal companies, and even fewer (less
than 10) operating internationally. Foreign companies considering operating
in the Philippines generally consider the contractual arrangements to be very
satisfactory and their relations with the Government, BED and PNOC to be good.
The Government has been flexible in its parallel relations with the oil
companies where many issues have been dealt with on a case-by-case basis.
Union Oil's license for geothermal development is different from current
practice; it was issued prior to the presidential decree add provides for
development to be on a cost-reimbursable basis to be paid out of future
earnings, but with no formal limitations on the contractor's take.
49.       Difficulties in further geothermal development arise through the
need perceived by many companies to agree a steam price with NPC in advance of
commencing exploration, a situation dictated both by the lack of major
alternative uses for steam in most locations and the relatively low initial
risk of failing to find a commercial resource. There are almost no intern-
ational precedents for steam pricing, and further study and contract
initiatives are needed to ease and speed up the contractual process, and to
take account of the uncertainties which may arise during geothermal field
production. Caltex and Total have gone ahead with basic geothermal
exploration in advance of a steam contract, and Union Oil is proceeding on the
basis set out in its existing geothermal license, but the other interested
companies have taken an extremely cautious line and have not been prepared to
undertake even basic exploration in advance of an agreed steam selling price.
PNOC-EDC, as a subsidiary of a state company, is undertaking exploration in
advance of any steam contract in the interests of national energy development
objectives. There are, however, a number of highly promising areas (not being
explored by PNOC-EDC) available to the private sector, and PNOC-EDC is in any
case willing to consider seriously suitable joint venture proposals.
50.       The Government has not yet formalised its geothermal policies.  It
intends to engage consultants to undertake a study to indicate and rank the
most promising areas in the Philippines for geothermal exploration and to
identify the main contractual features and bases relevant to geothermal steam
sales. PNOC also intends to investigate further the nonpower uses of steam



- 16 -
with a view to clarifying the economics of steam use in agriculture, fisheries
and industry. Both studies would be carried out under the proposed project
(para. 57) and would be completed in 1983.
The Bank's Lending Strategy and Role in the Sector
51.       The Bank's previous lending in the energy sector has focused
exclusively on the power subsector, through seven loans for power generation
and transmission and one loan for rural electrification. As part of the
Government's strategy of reducing the Philippines' heavy dependence on
imported oil, it has sought the Bank's support for a broader range of
initiatives in the sector, which include the exploration for and development
of indigenous resources (oil and gas, geothermal, coal, hydro, and nonconven-
tional), the provision of supporting infrastructure, the strengthening of new
and existing institutions and the formulation of policies to redirect and
restrain energy demand. The Bank currently expects to provide a combination
of project and subsector loans, as well as possible elements in structural
adjustment lending, to address the policy and institutional issues in the
sector. As part of this strategy, in addition to the proposed geothermal
exploration project, and the petroleum exploration promotion project, the Bank
has recently approved a coal exploration loan; broader energy sector issues,
including the energy investment program, its financing and energy pricing
policies, will be a focus of future lending operations.
52.       The Bank's involvement in the geothermal sector would support the
efforts of the Government to reduce oil demand for power generation through
exploration for and development of steam. It aims at improving both the
country's exploration strategy, including private sector involvement, and the
national program conducted by PNOC-EDC, with particular emphasis on exploring
new areas closer to the Manila market. It also aims at making some progress
with the NPC planning process in relation to geothermal steam. The Bank has
worked with NPC in identifying the appropriate sizing and timing for geother-
mal development and with PNOC on exploration objectives. The proposed project
would enable two geothermal developments forming a logical part of the power
program - Palinpinon II (Western Visayas) and Bacon-Manito (Southern Luzon) -
to be brought to a stage where each should be ready for a development deci-
sion, and would enable PNOC-EDC to undertake additional exploratory work in
Luzon in areas where little work has been done to date to identify the most
appropriate areas for expanded exploration and development. International
companies interested in the Philippines are satisfied with the country's
prospectivity and legislative framework. The Philippines has already been
successful in attracting three major international oil companies to undertake
geothermal exploration, and has developed a substantial experienced cadre of
staff within PNOC-EDC, such that geothermal will soon be in a position to play
a major role in the national power program.



- 17 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
53.       The Government requested Bank assistance with geothermal development
early in 1979. The role of geothermal energy was considered in some detail in
the energy assessment undertaken by a joint World Bank/Asian Development Bank
mission in 1980. Appraisal of a project, comprising components for the
Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito fields and exploration at up to six other sites,
was completed in February 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from
August 16-19, 1982. The Philippine delegation was led by the Honorable
Antonio del Rosario, Deputy Minister of Energy. The main features of the
project are given in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. No
separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Objectives
54.       The primary objectives of the project are:  (a) to improve the
national strategy for geothermal exploration with particular emphasis on
exploring new areas close to the Manila market; and (b) to help strengthen the
development of geothermal policy by the Government and PNOC. The project
would help clarify prospects and strengthen NPC's power generation planning
options. It would bring two prospective areas up to a stage where firm
development decisions could be taken and would identify which of a number of
other areas should receive priority attention for extensive exploration
drilling. The Bank has been closely involved in studies of the power options
for the Luzon market and is working with the Government on the options for the
Western Visayas; the areas chosen for support under the project reflect this.
Policy studies under the project would facilitate contract agreements with the
private sector. They would also determine a technical and economic basis for
ranking exploration sites and would examine the economics of major non-power
uses of steam with a view to early development.
Project Description
55.       The proposed geothermal exploration program consists of:  (a) carry-
ing out geoscientific studies, including geological, geophysical and geo-
chemical studies, to identify appropriate locations and targets for drilling
operations; (b) drilling of 4 exploration wells to a depth of about 12,000
feet (in addition to 7 drilled to date) to prove sufficient reserves at
Palinpinon (Southern Negros) to support a second 110 MW power generating
unit; (c) drilling of 11 exploration wells to an average depth of about
9,000 feet (in addition to 3 drilled to date) to prove sufficient reserves at
Bacon-Manito (Southern Luzon) to support 110 MW power generation capacity,
and two shallow wells for non-power steam; and (d) drilling of about
8 exploration wells to an average depth of about 9,000 feet in the more
promising of six locations on Luzon (Balungo, Del Gallego, Irosin, Mabini,
Montelago, Mt. Pinatubo). Finalization of the locations for drilling would
depend on geoscientific tests now in progress. Exploration to date in
Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito is summarized in Annex IV.



- 18 -
56.       It is important that sufficient flexibility be maintained in the
program scope so as to permit adjusting the number of wells in Palinpinon and
Bacon-Manito in the light of drilling results, and to permit the inclusion of
other Luzon/Negros locations if prospects merit it. Geothermal exploration
programs, by their nature, are subject to modifications as new information
becomes available. Therefore, the components of the project could, with
proper justification, be significantly altered during the implementation
period, particularly the well locations and drilling programs. Furthermore,
some of the prospects have not yet been sufficiently defined to permit a
judicious choice of drilling locations. Since the detailed program would need
to be continuously adjusted as the project proceeds, and therefore, revised
from time to time, it would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment on
an annual basis starting not later than January 1983 (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.01(b)). The Bank would conduct a detailed review of drilling
locations and their justification, with approval being given on a program
basis for Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito and on an individual well basis for the
other 10 wells, including the non-power wells at Bacon-Manito (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)). Upon completion of exploration at
Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito, steam reserve studies would be undertaken by
consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to confirm
their respective producible reserves before development takes place (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.06).
57.       The project includes two policy studies to be undertaken by consul-
tants during 1982-83: (a) the first addresses the approach to determining
priorities among the various geothermal locations in Luzon and bases for
contracting steam supplies; and (b) the second evaluates the economics of
non-power uses of steam and the appropriate extent of geothermal drilling for
this purpose. The work on contract bases should enable the Government to
identify more clearly the steam contracting options open to it and facilitate
steam pricing negotiations with both the public and private sector. The
studies would be undertaken by consultants selected pursuant to Bank guide-
lines on the use of consultants. Their completion is expected by end-1983, at
which time they would be reviewed by the Bank with the Government and state
energy enterprises with a view to implementation as appropriate (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03; draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04 and
3.05).
Project Cost
58.       The total project cost is estimated at $71.5 million, of which
$45.0 million is the estimated foreign exchange cost. Although the project is
exempt from duties and taxes on direct imports, the total cost includes about
$2 million in taxes on rig rental, professional services and locally procured
imported materials (e.g., fuel). The major cost elements are the 25 explora-
tion wells ($45.0 million base cost) and associated geoscientific studies



- 19 -
($7.5 million base cost), estimated on the basis of PNOC-EDC's experience of
geothermal exploration and development costs over the last two years, updated
to mid-1982 price levels. The studies and technical assistance are estimated
to cost $4.1 million (base cost); the cost of the Bank-financed studies is
based on 100 man-months of consultants at an average cost of $12,000 per
man-month including fees, international travel and subsistence. Technical
assistance is based on 300 man months at an average cost of $10,000 per man
month including fees, international travel and subsistence. Physical
contingencies have been based on 15% for well drilling. Price contingencies
on foreign costs are calculated at the rate of 8% per year for 1982 and 1983,
7.5% for 1984 and 7% for 1985, and, in respect of local costs, 10% for 1982
and 8% per year for 1983-85.
Financing Plan
59.        Total financing required for the program is $71.5 million, including
the $0.5 million front-end fee. About $1.0 million for technical assistance
will be financed through foreign aid (New Zealand, Italy and Japan). The
proposed Bank loan of $36.0 million would cover the remaining direct foreign
exchange cost of the project, or 52% of the total cost net of duties and
taxes, as well as the capitalized front-end fee. The loan would be made to
PNOC, and would be guaranteed by the Government; no guarantee fee would apply.
The loan would be for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. PNOC would relend the proceeds of the loan (except
for about $1 million for the policy studies) to PNOC-EDC on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan, and PNOC-EDC would bear the foreign exchange
risk; execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between PNOC and
PNOC-EDC would be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01). PNOC-EDC's indirect foreign exchange costs, equivalent to
about $8 million in rig rentals from PNOC's drilling subsidiary, and local
exploration costs for the project, equivalent to about $26.5 million, and any
cost overruns, would be financed as equity, primarily from the Oil Industry
Special Fund (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02; draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(b)).
Project Implementation
60.        The Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC) was created as a commer-
cially-oriented, Government-owned corporation in 1973, under Presidential
Decree No. 334 (later amended), for the primary purpose of transporting,
refining and marketing crude oil and petroleum products. Many of PNOC's
senior professionals are former employees of the Esso and Gulf subsidiaries,
which were bought by the Government at the time and which provided the core
staff and physical assets of PNOC. PNOC has now grown to include 21 subsi-
diaries, of which seven are involved in exploration and development of
indigenous energy resources including geothermal, petroleum, coal, uranium and
alcogas. One of these, PNOC Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC) is
responsible for geothermal and uranium exploration; another, PNOC Energy
Drilling Incorporated (PNOC-EDI), for drilling oil, gas and geothermal wells
for PNOC energy companies and outside parties; and a third, PNOC - Geothermal
Technology Corporation (PNOC-GTC), for technical assistance to PNOC-EDC (see
para. 62).



- 20 -
61.       In operation since 1976, PNOC-EDC contracts with the Government and
the National Power Corporation (NPC) much as would any private oil company.
While Union Oil has been concentrating on developing and operating two
prospects in Luzon, PNOC-EDC, in cooperation with the New Zealand aid mission
and consultants, has been working in the Visayas (Tongonan, Biliran and
Palinpinon) and Luzon (Bacon-Manito), with BED and the Italian aid mission
primarily in Northern Luzon (until recently at Daklan immediately south of the
Japanese assisted area) and will soon be working closely with the Japanese
also in Northern Luzon (Acupan-Itogon). Two of PNOC-EDC's prospects (Tongonan
and Palinpinon I) are already in the development stage (para. 42). PNOC-EDC's
policy has been to explore areas which, in accordance with the national energy
plan, would enable geothermal resources to be brought onstream as rapidly as
possible, and accordingly has concentrated primarily on highly productive
areas in the Visayas. The emphasis in the proposed project is on sites in
Luzon rather closer to the market, together with the completion of ongoing
work at Palinpinon, and represents more than 85% of PNOC-EDC's exploration
program for the next four years.
62.       With the assistance of foreign consultants, PNOC-EDC's staff have
competently undertaken all public sector geothermal exploration in the
Philippines. Its professional staff includes 50 geoscientists (geophysicists,
geochemists and geologists), 30 civil engineers and 50 operating/field
engineers. Plans are in hand for an expansion to 100 geoscientists with a
view to enhancing and widening the pre-drilling exploration activities.
Adequate training arrangements have been made, making particular use of UNDP
funding. PNOC-EDC has a sound record of engaging consultants as needed and
will continue to do so as long as necessary. The technical competence of
PNOC-EDC's more experienced geothermal staff is now comparable to that of many
oil companies. Kingston, Reynolds, Thom and Allardyce (KRTA) (New Zealand),
Electroconsult (Italy) and Japan International Cooperation Agency (Japan), who
are consultants to BED/PNOC-EDC under bilateral aid arrangements, all have
experienced and competent geothermal staff; KRTA has entered into a joint
company (PNOC-GTC) with PNOC to provide technical assistance on a longer-term
basis.
63.       The twenty-five wells under the proposed project would be drilled by
PNOC-EDI for PNOC-EDC. PNOC-EDI has drilled over 100 geothermal wells and
9 oil and gas exploration wells, generally within budget and in a technically
efficient and cost effective manner. The Philippine crews are generally
assisted by two to four expatriates hired under a labor contract with a
drilling supervision firm. PNOC-EDC provides its own supervisory staff,
procures all other drilling equipment and materials, and contracts with
acceptable well service companies as needed.
Project Scheduling
64.       Including recent acquisitions, PNOC-EDI operates 10 rigs of varying
capabilities. One rig is currently allocated to PNOC-Exploration Corporation,
one is on contract to Union Oil, and the remaining rigs are available to
PNOC-EDC. Project scheduling is related to rig availability and the need
during 1982 and 1983 to concentrate a number of the rigs on development



- 21 -
drilling at Tongonan and Palinpinon I. Rig limitations are not, however,
expected to be a significant constraint in the prompt execution of the
geothermal project.
65.       In Palinpinon, PNOC-EDC has completed 12 of the anticipated 30 wells
needed for Palinpinon I, and has drilled 7 wells for Palinpinon II. Work
recommmenced recently for Palinpinon II exploration drilling under the
project, and the four wells necessary to prove up the resource should be
completed by mid-1983. Provision is made in the loan for financing reserves
studies at that time with a view to confirming the readiness of the area for a
follow-on development project.
66.       PNOC-EDC has moved a rig to the low temperature (industrial/
agricultural) steam area of Bacon-Manito, while preparing sites for further
drilling into the high temperature (power resources) steam area. Deep
drilling for steam for power purposes will re-commence at the beginning of
1983, and eleven wells are expected to be completed before the end of 1984.
Funds are also included in the loan for reserves studies at that time with a
view to confirming the readiness of the area for a follow-on development
project. Provision has been made for two shallow wells in the low temperature
area to commence in 1983.
67.       In relation to the other exploration areas under the project,
PNOC-EDC has recently abandoned its efforts at Daklan, and is undertaking
preliminary geoscientific exploration at six other Luzon sites. Subject to
favorable results, deep drilling is expected to commence in mid-1984. The
project would be completed in 1985.
68.       Based on its past performance and the recruitment in progress,
PNOC-EDC should be capable of undertaking the work competently and in
accordance with the schedule (Annex V) and budget. No special implementation
action is required. PNOC-EDC has agreed to provide monthly progress reports,
as well as a completion report evaluating the results of the project and
their implication for exploration and development efforts in the future (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.05).
Financial Aspects, Accounts and Audits
69.       Philippine National Oil Company.  PNOC has maintained a steady
growth in sales income since inception. Total revenue in 1981 was $2.7 bil-
lion, mainly through crude oil trading and oil products marketing. Operating
profits (pre tax and interest) are high by international standards at
$164 million (about 6% on sales). Net margins are traditionally low, and net
profits at $43 million in 1981 are only about 2% on sales. The projected
decline in Philippine oil consumption is expected to lead to a modest decline
through the 1980s in PNOC's crude oil refining and sales of gasoline, and to a
significant decline in sales of fuel oil. Based on projections for the geo-
thermal project and for the Asian Development Bank-financed Malangas coal
development, PNOC's geothermal and coal developments are expected to counter-



- 22 -
balance the decline in oil sales income. The expected shift in its activities
should, however, have a far more material impact on the net profits. Geo-
thermal, and to a lesser extent coal developments, carry wider profit margins,
and should ensure a strong profit growth. PNOC's preliminary financial plani
indicate that operating profits will increase by 30-35% (1981 prices) by 1986
(about 9% on sales), giving net profits of more than $85 million (about 3% on
sales).
70.       The consolidated PNOC balance sheet position, which is acceptable,
is typical for a major refiner/ marketer and is comparable to state oil
companies in many other countries (Annex VI). The long-term debt to equity
ratio is 26/74, and short-term loans, while substantial at $940 million,
closely match oil stock and short-term investments. Current assets at $1.5
billion are over 70% of total assets. The current ratio has declined somewhat
to 1.0 in 1981, which is low, but it is closely controlled and is expected to
continue at about this level through control of stocks, accounts receivable
and short-term borrowings. Little change is expected in the debt/equity
ratio, subject to implementation of satisfactory financing arrangements for
each major area of investment, principally geothermal, petroleum and coal;
initial developments in each of these areas are being addressed through
Bank-financed projects (para. 51). PNOC's estimated debt service coverage was
4.1 in 1981; annual debt service fluctuates because of maturity loans, but
PNOC is expected to be able to continue to maintain satisfactory coverage as
in the past. The areas of financial vulnerability have been identified, and
PNOC is considering ways of dealing with them. In the near term, the most
significant risk is the exposure to varying interest rates on short-term
loans; it is currently profiting from the yield on short-term investments and
the lower interest rates currently associated with this -form of borrowing are
a factor in encouraging short-term loans. In the medium-term, the important
unknowns are the geothermal pricing policy and refinery and distributor's
margins; the former is being studied specifically by PNOC, and it is expected
that the latter will be addressed through a pricing study to be undertaken by
the Government under terms by reference agreed with the Bank.
71.       PNOC has had no integrated medium- or longer-term plans.  It has
taken steps to remedy this through engagement of local consultants, and,
following detailed discussions with Bank missions, has prepared preliminary
five-year segregated and consolidated financial forecasts, analyzing
specifically the interrelationship between refining and marketing and
substitution through coal and geothermal. A more comprehensive five-year
financial forecast is now being developed, with a view to completion before
the end of 1982. This updated forecast will address the sensitivity of the
financial position to key variables, and is expected to be a suitable basis
for an overall review of PNOC's policies and activities.
72.       PNOC Energy Development Corporation.  Established in 1976, PNOC-
EDC's main activities have been geothermal exploration and development, coal
(now transferred to PNOC Coal Corporation) and, to a substantially lesser
extent, uranium. The first major geothermal development is expected to become
operational in 1984, and until that time PNOC-EDC is a non-revenue earning
entity. PNOC-EDC's authorized capital at December 31, 1981 consisted of



- 23 -
300,000 shares at P 1,000 per share, or a total of P 300 million ($36 mil-
lion), all fully paid in and held by PNOC. PNOC-EDC has applied to increase
its share capital to P 1.5 billion ($180 million) and a further P 249 mil-
lion has been paid in advance of formal approval. Total paid in equity is
therefore P 549 million ($66 million). PNOC-EDC's expenditure to date
amounts to $170 million, mainly on drilling and other geothermal exploration
and development expenses (about $129 million, of which $7 million has been
written off in respect of abandoned projects), property, equipment and
construction works relating to geothermal development ($25 million net of
depreciation), and inventory ($20 million). 39% has been financed from
shareholders equity and 54% through interest-bearing loans from PNOC and
affiliates. Summarized accounts are at Annex VII.
73.       PNOC-EDC's operations are expected to be financially sound.  Given
that geothermal exploration is less risky than petroleum exploration and the
number of prospects involved, the financial position can be forecast with
reasonable confidence. The key factors affecting PNOC-EDC's finances are the
terms and conditions of steam supplies to NPC (their two existing "agreements"
are on pricing principles only and are based on a 15% rate of return for PNOC-
EDC) and the financing arrangements for exploration and development. The
Government has not yet decided on an appropriate rate of return for the supply
of steam by PNOC-EDC to NPC. Projections at Annex IX-XI are on the basis that
the outline arrangements for the first two fields will be applied to
subsequent developments (the basis is, in fact, subject to review in light of
the proposed study). The projections are further based on the assumption that
most foreign currency needs and a limited amount of local currency funding can
be borrowed overseas. Most local currency requirements will be funded from
the Oil Industry Special Fund as equity. A maximum debt/equity ratio of 60/40
has been assumed for financing PNOC-EDC's development. The resulting
financial position is projected to be good. PNOC-EDC would maintain a
debt/equity ratio of not higher than 60/40 (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.03). PNOC-EDC would also maintain a current ratio of not less than 1.5:1,
exclusive of transactions with other parts of PNOC (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.04).
74.       Accounts and Audit.  PNOC and PNOC-EDC prepare their accounts in a
satisfactory manner generally in accordance with standard international
practices. Abandoned prospects for geothermal are expensed in the accounts of
PNOC-EDC. Similar practices are in force for coal and steps are being taken
for PNOC to adopt similar policies progressively for petroleum. The accounts
of PNOC and its subsidiaries are independently audited by auditors satisfac-
tory to the Bank. PNOC-EDC will keep separate accounts for each area in its
exploration and development program, and will furnish financial reports on the
project on a regular basis. PNOC and PNOC-EDC will provide the Bank with
copies of their audited accounts within four months of the end of each fiscal
year (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.02; draft Project Agreement,
Sections 4.01 and 4.02).
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       PNOC's procurement procedures have been reviewed and are acceptable.
Most major purchases, including the drilling supervision labor contract,



- 24 -
materials and equipment and casing would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
PNOC will use its own rigs, their rental will not be financed from the loan.
Highly specialised services, estimated at about 17% of the loan, supplied by
only a limited number of contractors operating in the area and including
electric logging, cementing and testing, mud logging and geochemical analysis,
would be procured through limited international tendering.  Small purchases of
up to $200,000 for equipment, parts, materials, consumables and services would
be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding or other local proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank, provided that their aggregate does not exceed
$3.0 million. Up to $1 million in aggregate would be spent on experimental
equipment, materials and services, which may be procured on the basis of
negotiated contracts not exceeding $200,000 each, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Some advance contracting of materials and services
(particularly well casing and drilling supplies) for exploratory drilling is
necessary to maintain continuity of operations; it is not expected to exceed
$12 million, and will have been procured in accordance with the Bank's
procedures. Consultants' services in connection with the studies would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on the use of consultants.
76.       Disbursement on all Bank-financed items would be made against 100%
of the foreign exchange expenditures, with the exception of fuel, for which
disbursement would be made against 50% of cost (the estimated foreign exchange
component), and materials and equipment for which disbursement would be made
against 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods (e.g.
special cements), 80% of the cost of imported goods procured locally (e.g.
chemicals), and 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported goods.
Disbursements against expenditures on drilling services would be subject to
agreement on PNOC-EDC's annual drilling programs for Palinpinon and
Bacon-Manito and well locations for the other areas as set out in para. 56
(condition of disbursement, draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4 (b)).
Retroactive financing of materials and services up to $3 million beginning
January 1, 1982 is recommended in line with the above advance contracting.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1986.
Environmental Impact and Safety
77.       Very little damage to the environment should occur.  PNOC-EDC has
its own environmental control section and use is also made of local
universities so as to assess and monitor the impact of PNOC-EDC's activities.
The potential problems are taken very seriously and have caused extensive
changes to the drilling program to avoid environmental damage. Drilling
operations require the construction of roads and levelling of areas for
locating drilling rigs; tree and grass replanting is undertaken soon after
construction is completed. Both at Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito maximum use
would be made of directional drilling, which would minimize the amount of land
to be levelled. Flow testing operations are planned so as to restrict the
temporary discharge of geothermal fluid to the amount capable of being carried
by local streams without permanent harm, and testing would be deferred rather
than permitting fluid to exceed that level. Some destruction of foliage
within a hundred meters of the wells is unavoidable during testing; most
would recover during the subsequent operational mode, and if necessary trees
would be replanted.  Operational effluent would be reinjected.  Safety



- 25 -
procedures have been designed and are considered for each well proposal, and
appropriate industry practices are followed regarding disposal of fluids
recovered in tests, borehole cuttings, and other waste materials normal to
drilling operations. PNOC-EDC has agreed to make adequate safety provisions,
including the immediate acquisition of any specialized services required to
mitigate the consequences of a blowout (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.04).
Project Benefits
78.       The project would assist in the rapid exploration for geothermal
energy in line with the policy set out in the national energy plan. Geo-
thermal steam is expected to cost only one-third of the cost of fuel oil, and,
in appropriate circumstances, development of geothermal-based generation
capacity will be significantly less expensive than the alternatives. The
disadvantage of geothermal steam is that it can only be used where it is
found; consequently the most likely geothermal fields for economic development
are those close to existing major transmission lines, such as is the case in
much of Luzon and in the Palinpinon area of Southern Negros. The Bank has
already undertaken extensive studies of alternative least cost power programs
for Luzon and has identified a probable role for geothermal power. Bacon-
Manito could contribute significantly towards deferring major transmission
line investments, could be important in meeting growing power demands, and
could lead to significant savings.
79.       In respect of Palinpinon, the Bank has already investigated the
power market in the Western Visayas. There appears to be little alternative
to geothermal steam or oil fuels for Negros/Panay, and the proving of the
geothermal resource is expected to provide a firm basis for NPC to prepare
itself for meeting demand. An NPC feasibility study on the Palinpinon second
stage is currently in progress and should be ready during the calendar year.
80.       The studies associated with the project would enable the Government
to take a more carefully developed approach to the priorities of future
geothermal exploration and power options, permit a review of alternative
contract options, and encourage an integrated basis for decisions on non-
power steam developments.
Project Risks
81.       The risks associated with geothermal exploration are much less than
with petroleum. The risk of failing to find a geothermal resource is small.
A geothermal company will analyze hot spring water in geologically suitable
locations and can calculate reservoir temperature from the chemical com-
position of the water. Resistivity anomalies detected through geophysical
tests will indicate probable reservoir locations. Starting from the most
promising point in the anomaly, wells are drilled progressively, with the
location of each determined from the results already achieved. Consequently,
it is unlikely that no reservoir will exist in areas selected for drilling.



- 26 -
82.       From the economic point of view, the risks of geothermal exploration
could be significant, although this does not appear to have been the case in
the Philippines. The four fields developed are all sound commercial develop-
ments. So far no particular technical difficulties have been encountered.
The economic risks which in principle could be encountered include low well
productivity (e.g. from low porosity or exceptional reservoir depth),
unsuitable chemicals in the water which could lead to caking of the wells or
to corrosion, high-cost drilling and development, inadequate resources, and
inadequate temperatures. The geoscientific investigations would enable most
of these risks to be minimized, and the studies on priorities and detailed
review after each well should further reduce the possibility of significant
expenditures not fully producing the expected benefits. Competent consultants
would help PNOC-EDC in deciding on well locations and in interpreting results.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and PNOC, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PNOC-EDC and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately.
84.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The condition of disbursement for drilling-related services is Bank
approval of the annual drilling programs for Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito, and
well locations for the other areas (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para. 4(b)). The execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between PNOC and PNOC-EDC is a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01).
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 8, 1982 ^



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                                     Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             300.0                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCGriE
AGRICULTURAL      109.0                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US0)                    150.0        250.0      690.0                   890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        146.8        272.3      329.4                   701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27902.0        37540.0   49049.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3            32.9       36.2                    32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          76.9
STATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           126.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         93.0         125.1      159.2                  255.9                      35.2
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND    282.4          361.0      438.2                  1748.0                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.6         45.5       44.1                    39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.4          51.6       52.8                   56.8                      56.1
65 YRS. AND AROVE                      3.0          2.9        3.1                     3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.1          3.0        2.7                     2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                4.2           3.8        3.6                     3.9                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        45.5         38.5       34.1                    31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        14.6          9.8        7.3                     9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          2.7        2.2                     2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        191.7     650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             2.0       37.0                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           102.0        101.0      113.0                   115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     96.6         97.2      106.7/c                 106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.0          47.5      52.0/c                  54.4                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         16.6         18.7       20.4/c                  13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        13.6          7.9        4.5                     6.7                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.8            59.0      63.5                    59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             105.8         75.0       54.7                   63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         24.0       43.0/d                  32.0                     65.6
URBAN                                 ..           ..       66.0/d                  51.9                     78.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       33.0R                   20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXLRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         57.0      56.0/d                  37.7                     59.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..      76.0/d                  65.7                     75.3
RURAL                                  ..          ..       44.0/d                  24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..           ..    2809.4/c                8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            . .     3840.0    3173.1/c                 4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1229.3        838.6      568.7                  1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                              547.3        400.6         ..                   651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  2597.6                   1903.4
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED              ..         30.0         ..                   27.0                      27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.8          5.9
URBAN                                 ..           6.2
kLRAL                                 ..           5.8
AVERAuK NUMBEh OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           2.3
LRBAN                                 ..          2.1
RURAL                                 ..           2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                16.5         23.2      36.0
URBAN                                            60.4       82.0
RURAL                                 ..           6.8      10.0



- 28 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILWPTR- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE}AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE2-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIKATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0       114.0      98.0                   96.2                    104.3
KALE                 98.0        115.0        ..                   99.8                    106.4
FEMALE               93.0        113.0        ..                   92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0        51.0      63.0                   37.6                     41.3
MALE                 28.0         52.0        ..                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE               25.0         49.0        ..                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.3          8.9/e    33.9/c                 20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.9        28.6      31.2/c                 35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          26.9/f      33.0      35.6/i                 25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9        82.6      75.0                   73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.1         7.4       8.81/                 9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        21.5         40.0      44.0                  116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.7      20.9                   37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.4        13.4      20.3                   53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6/h         ..       7.5/d                  2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11117.5      13730.4   17412.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.2         33.1      32.3                   33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0        53.0      46.0                   52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.0        16.0      17.0                   17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6      35.5                   38.5                     33.6
MALE                                 52.1        48.6      47.6                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4      23.2                   26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2         1.3       1.3                    1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     260.0                  194.7
RURAL                               ..           ..     195.0                  155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     266.0                  178.2                   518.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     200.0                  164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      32.0                   24.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      41.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithbetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1972; /f 1962; /I 1976; /h 1958.
May, 1982



- 29 -                                                                                       ANNEX I
DUUITION Of SMLA UDICATMPage  3  of  5
Edotes   Although rho data ens dra.       ta  souce          rs1, Jodge  the iet enho-itor- and reilei. it should sin he noted that they ay out he tote--
satoansly oe-prebio  her,ed  of the lac  of  _tuedloedid deftnittou              _ndr et  osId by different ratries  LAt collcing  the data.  The date ar.  one
thlns   sful to d..trihe order. of -sgoitde, indicate  trns,sd thersctorie  certein  _jor diff reouc   betwee  cou..toln..
TIhe onfereregoep  ace (1)the na.ccrygopo  teuieicctysd (2) Ato-otY  group niub  smahat high. or--rge  icco   rha. ohe coserry grooup
of thu. :,              l    . ojccoor   foet for   "Nig  Ircom    iigtoo .trn    gop eur Middle..           N-oo  oth Africated Kiddiefat E,ilnthono   eoas  cI otruoge
uoi 'rc r Iaff,oit,o).  Ic the nef-reo     go-p date rho  -crgee are pepe)tiet wighte   uih-ni    aotnech Lodto   sod shsroy etet
mjority of the               L oetisoA goep.hoe daat t  thforlh   Seitr    itre  the tonnge of co risu go the itdcaor   dpeeds cc th   availehilLty of dstn
and in cot   riters. csoioo  see  ho eter feed Lo  ealgarae  of one iodicuto   t  scot                     he.. avrae  sr.olycI          l   it. coparieg rho  -ais  of
oneiuiictneas    rse_mog rho toetttoy and re fersc..       ro.
Anu  (th-e...od sqAs.)                                                                                 Popolatie  pe  gsptoi fed -totl, cho. co -rrl -  opula1titeohtl
Total - Ttrci earlface . recosprisfg  iotA  area nod  tialnd etr;1979 data,                            ulha   end coral  divided  hytheir repeciv  combe  of hospita  hdal
Anri-ctl.uc  - teieeof arrltrlAcca used resPor-oIY or P`--tuly                                         soa lblahi  to ehite nod pri-ete  genol1 nod speiaWLd hospita  adre
tcr.. crpe. pateres. maker nod kitchen gardea or to lie  tallow; 1979 date.                          hahillt.tienteeer.  foepitale  see eut hhtetat  petMso"ly utel'ed
hyrlnr  nepIstlo                 atahIishsents prc-iding ?ei-tlpelly ceste-
tSP Pfl CAPITA 10111    GNm  per cop iraeeme   et  -ereo  sane   Price.' co1-                      dia  tar  are I  tot -',lded    SeI hopitAls, horeevee  lo1ade hoeIlb
related hy nam   rteniot method as Worl1d Bank Atlee  (197K-ft heels); i9f0,                           sodsdieteeran  pr enl  stffed ho n physician  (her byI
1970. and 19ff dat,                                                                                     ed icul .ss.stoo_, curse, sidwite, etc;.) o!hich   fferL i-patient nce--
daico  no  prvd a1. lIimitd rIIg  of mdica  f Ac IlitIes.  Per elea-
ENERGY CONSUMP'TION PER-CAPITA. - foA- Icospro  of tastalcury(ca                                         rital pep eAurhot:hepitals  ittled. Wifspretlgora    opias
and tigoire   petelen,natre  ga  adthydr-, tucn-  end getera   le-sd curl1 hospitals,IAL rten   hoPital  and oudirsI mo  tur.eotly
reirity) in kltogress o.f tel  nqfelt  par P. epira; 1960. 1970, aod 1979                              c          Str  peclaliand hespitem. ure b`-edad  onlyudetoa.1
date.                                                                                                Adainseeprfnta   o   Ttrci I                    l Ie   o   d    issln   to or di.hbsege
from  hopitale divdd by the otterl of hods..
POPUL,ATION ANDl VITA)L STATISTICS
TetelPpiruo    i-er(1nnos    As ot July 1; 19,60, 1979. nod 1900                                  HlOUSING
data.                                                                                             AvKrag  liar of fl.esohold (eon  pe  houshol)- totel.  lbha., end rurl1-
U"'o    -1l,   't'   ...                                                                                                       fIE          f       idittfreI dsfielttu-  of "ou  arean my effct rsparability of darn  aed theirmlt male..  A hoarder o loJdger may oroy co  he ieIedd it
em og_ertten; 1960, 1070. aed 19t0 dat,                                                         the hoeohold for nii ia    uposes.-
Peoulatlee Prejectietu                                                                              Aettagoobct   of ren- n   etrom-er..ra , sd rurl -erge  II5
FPupolole  it year 2000 - Corre-t popullaion yrojertleen  ace huerd  bt191                           o  of person  Per roes toAll crhao, a..rte  ocpied   orroa
tet1 Ppoplatict hy ago aed se Isd their mortaliy and fertility rao.deelinge, reepoci-ely.  D.eIiiigooeclodseen-_peraotttrrrreu
Pr-jerife peAtnater   for  _orteilty  --te  respris  ot cthre  lei   eIu-ecuIeId pArts.
loglie   oprrec   ethlrhleronig with cen          tpot caPita  incom                 Ac=ntoiler.toicito  fferrett of d-Iitgs) - totl  uht,ed turni1
levl,so  fessl  lIfe epe rnry utahilL.Let     at 77.) ye-r..The yaoa                              Coeetic.a. 1dellgo  wilth electricity LIt liriog quart              . ore .as  peretge
meters for frriliry rare aloe hove three leo1e aennieg decir  io                                  of tota  l,beha. aod ruts  dwell lgs  -ep-ri-ely.
fertility nero-diog to leres Iceel and Past family PIanotet yrrformaoce
fachfceantry is thno ens Lgod etc of those oi- c-sitaticos uf mortaity                       EDUCATION
od _ftriity  tree.do for projontiet ye-peun.                                                   Adjustod lerui1not gatiun
Irtli.n.ry Pcpelatic- IIeon-tLu           yppoaiother   os  gociooePrmr  uho  - ~tota, mole sod tfmel  - freon tota, mole andfml
the hir  rote in eul to  h  deuth rIte, ed alotetesrcuet-rri e    f ai Iagent rho primary leele_                                                        po1   oAge   fro te
mancccht nf   oetieond ocly after  ettiltY cart  declite  to                                     priar  nhuol-age g-ultio;  c Ily Leoudes  Ihtde    egrd f-li
the relarIC:,et level of writ  eIt reptodeorle   rate   h. eherar  geterrice                        Yeer  bet adjeoted Pforditfeoet lengths of primar  ed.crtieo; for
ofwo. telacstself e.catly.  The et-tienary pePolatficotn   wscetr    wtlh ucirersaI rd-tcitoe.. 11riloet ney oceed l0t peerre
entimied 00  tt teeim  cf the projected thoretrrlntlco  of  heppe: tc                                stee  nos  ocpils Ate heo or ehee the cfftitl.  actu1  gr.
to ho ono   0t, and rho~ rere of deolius of fertility rate  to reploc-                          Secooder crhoel - total, male ond female   CesputodeAthbve; oeccodory
tear eltariust  y"Pultioo   luerar hd - Thte Yeot than  -tatonory peyeI.ietto_ yrod-ogorl                                        ree.c  teaherIrt gI9 to cturices  tot pupile
nine vii    _erahd.                                                                                  ...uellye11t17y eeneteo;cttsedLI                        tese    r  ge.e-ely
PereIatien Deusity                                                                                       rerludod
Pers.  ho. -. Mid-yost pepulattoc per sq.... Ailcenrer (1tt hecteren) of                          fo-aticoleollm-11 r (ferre.tr of  -eoeAroy) -Voretiao   WIuti-tLoton
ttlse;16,197  sd179 dora.                                                               Lociuethoal   eutii:. 00 otter.p prgAne ofirt operate  odeped-
Per se* km.  InIuleelfe   - C.sp.t.d nathove  fco  egrice1teos1 iaed                                rotly  or a  dpur_ett  of _ a Icdacy  . ositutteo.l
ey;1960, lO0 end 1979 data.                                                                 Pepil-tracker roti, - pimry, ted stodery - Tetulcd Attet   erI.le!d to
Popelatci Age  iruetor   (Pert,a) -Childrno  ft-lA  y-at) ..cokieg-ege  (15-                    prnr   o          cdr   eeodivide d by  otters of  ...soero  to ito
64yas.ed retired  (65 yeses and ove) tepootfnof sid-yeoc pope-crepodgtel.
la_lee; 1960. 1970. ted 1900 date.                                                                Adult lpitorsoly ce:te f(percoet) - Liro...to  ado1ta  fabi  to read sod write)
fepulatiot irosuth Rate (perree) - total - A-oul greoth raten  uf tc.).  mid-                          espo        tg    fteto1 edolt pepuI.ist- sd 15 yoere eed ever.
yrrpplarle.o ic  1910-A, 1960-79, sot 1970-ft.
PpeteCrth (Rt   p-rret) - crhs- Aeceel growth tao    fote    oe-tO0fTO
1stiono  for 19)50-At,  =96-70. aed 1070-00.-                                                     Penn. as(e             2hosdppltlc       anoe   ascotn    oo
Credo Birth Rate (per thou d)  _-1t a  Ii-c  hirthn per ri.os.od of mid-year                          caenaigln   heegty  reo                         P...c   S.dt ' ecorns cPirteto
"popuaton   1960  1970  cod 1901 data.                                                              nih  ary orticle-
Iode Beart Rte (pe  t        _ossd) - Ateutl destho pec thoos..ed  of Ald-ynat                     Radio Racor  (e  toned   oultoe    All typen ofrefes for esdio
lpepulatico; 1961  1070,so  1900 dsta.                                                               tree rAn     to greet l polc per thousand of pepoIluico; e.cledenet
Cross Rapredeotice Rate- A_ ege euhe ~of daeghtr-es wso o,ill horb                                     iceocriv              oconre   od1   rr LtetI rgntoio    ftoo
bet ectea  reProdcti-c  potdif oherupetireenP ponet ag-epuatfic for-                                eta wan LIt effect; date too reoet yeaoa may ottc~ehoi
tLityoatos;tn...ly  f~loe-os   -ore   -die  te  96, 1970  Pcr  loo.ot ..erte  hlse   icn g
Pamily Plonilg - Acrerecra., Acuc   thoa               - hoetal otter of a.cpcptor                  TV Rocetoer  frtto(         tdfpleto            TVroier   fo- hr. odcs         t
et hfth-rotrel  eclin   nod e ausfiresof ocioca  family piseetog frgrm.       ge-rlptlcpttoodpplatiot;  .oc lodenV un -cesd TV.,-eler
family Pliannie-lueeo  (perc...t of aetotd oco-) -_rrctage of maried                                   LI  Iotoned LIt year  ehe-  regIoLaeo   Vsrewst   fe
cetu   hild-eato         5g 1-44 yoece)  hd. usbieth-coutrI  deoi-e  to                       enae  C  _Irt tcoL.  (rot thoco..d rgpolat_oel    Sh...e the aerge cnt-
allnorried eef   10ous  seel troep,                                                                 culertee Lf              .. g -era  itltvrrrowpnpet", dotfoedeosy           itde
yiraiedeocred primarily not      crie.       Aesitw.It. to= Lsdeo
FOOD1 AMD NlrrRITION                                                                                     te he "daily" if itappearneIt loto~t feeo         isstlek.
Iodoe of PeedPr-duc- optla af99-ii)-Lodee of pro cepiet arcoal                                      Citesa              -Iei udar  per Capita per Yetr - Ra..td .. rho   te   of
prod-rito   i  foo  Croditles    Pccd-cice ooclodrs need ted feed                                         _-dtIcet   sod,dorie  the~year  terodieg odminsi.on  to doter-L it do  n
inyctaeda  fe  hasie.  Codlio coetr1 prmr    onfg    egraetd motilewits..
inroad of sgae( which are rdil   and              tcorcct   (t. cofe td
tea arerueludd).-  Aggregate prodeotice of each c...otey is he  00. dLABOR POfCE
otienol tIerego preducro pcic-  -righen; l961-A5, 1970, sod 1980 data.                           Tota  Laho f9 ec   fthrheedn)-           ceia        ction peeneus, locedieg
Per caPita neoply of cuIlorte  (Porroot of -rureormeotu) - Coqtpeod ire.                              ccswd frcen sd u    opiyo htocldn    toonir,rdeetn, etc.,
Ategy   q     1ialet of nto  toed nepylil len ovablailo ltrcetryi. .ec  capt                       cocctg populatlor of .li Igro   lefitoiote  Lo rarioun r.otnireoIre
per gsy.  AvIai 1oupplioc  cospclio  dosui   rdcio,lpteln                                            o  c.sparohir; 1960, 1970 sod 1980 date.
ecP"ru  an  cee  io trotk.  Ott ouppli. lot  rrcde a-isa  feed,  -rdn.                              F.Inal  forcoet) - Pradolater force so porcentugr of  -tota  lhb  force.
qncictiee eon . to fod Pc -eeino, tod Il.enca lo Idihte.  Raquito-                                  Asriculrur fre-cnt) - bLho  fcr-   it  te o            ..fertry.ucIogtd
-nl,e core lrot iacdihy PAO hear.d c- phytielegica1 ueedn for  -oel octl-                             fli       a   ocerrteg  of otal lsber fotre; 196.  91970  hd 1900 dao
olc  ad health   den idelgrornet    epta                br ody soitigh      at                   lndcetty, (perost)    Later forro  iv mieteg, rotecie   mtfctr
sod ne. diarrlieutio  of couairUe loiri  yrrceor for    c  at                                         sd e.leoicity, -etrudgon   oceoeof totel  n -or  tote;i
P.   .i      ,       fheusehold 1-oel  1961-A). 1971Dnod 19 77ae                                       1960. 1970 cod  oo  date.
fe   ei    oey Po ectio (soAl  pot dsy) - Pre-el  ...oteor of Pot rufius                   Pripei ftferceet) -  .totl, sale  tod fnmole-fsrriclpatlwr e
Ot  oprly of toed per day   lo   epply of toed L. defioed at aho.Ra-                              -tiefty os        re cowered en rttl. ml.  so,   d testIs letbr teea
qursooforol  coeo-trioo etalihod hy USDA proolde for  ntlu                                    p-rtoegos of total, male  ed fml  popolri- of el sges r-up-criv-ly;
tioaooof 60 grem   of cotni preroto1  per deysod,it goes of.:sciml td                         1960, _1970, sod 19f0 dete.  The.e are heod 00 fLoe partiriro-te rate
fume. protet. of oich 10 gra_a Ihed hr simal ProrItI.                  . Ths    ttfd-                etec io  ct-oo   uector  ofthel peplttc. nod Iog  ftin   treed,  A
ard  Itoe lent thee there of 75 gremo of rural prctein tod 23 grama of                              ton osims   ato l:fran               ..t.e seeco.
etima    i rooet   to  -ceerg   for the welId, prere..ed by FAG Ic the Thicd                  Ecomic          --pdoc  Ratio  - RatIo ci poP`ictino  noder15 and 65 sod over
World Peed S-vy; 1961-65. 1970 eed 1977 darn,                                                       to the total lahoc fcrce.
Porteola yeorio eupic iron-ima  so    eo-            rIc  ocyply of food do-
need fran aomluadpune  ogse    e  day; 1961-A), 1970 ted 1977 date.                            INCOMET DISTRIBUITIONO
Child lage-  1-4) Basil, BRr (poctchonoed) - Acee-1 d-hri  per tho.....d lo                         Pcetnof PrivateL ocmo (torth J. cash and  itod) -  ere-oed hy rirheo
age  _rop 1-A  cecro, to (hLIdree  no this see troop, forso  dvlpogc                                  poreer 1tcheur 20 por..eor, yo-c-s  70 ferceot, ted Poceon  At percIt
trien dato derived fran life  rable-; 1960. 1070 and lOft data.                                     ef hi...nhe1do.
HEALTH                                                                                              POVERTYi TARGET tROUP)
Lit, El torc try.atgirth (cram) -A-rtage otterc of yoare of life comitieg                           The followin    Iotasat. vreppro'tinr  moseo f povetyleo,
atur; 1960  i90ad 19000 darn,                                                                    endf hteld'b hrlterprered withy renuidrr... bl       oio
Cfani f "orlily Ban  foer thousand) - Aceno  deartn  ef tot- setudet 000 yeor                       totimated AbsoIete Poverty  or-,        eoL.  (11) Pet tapita) - ether and rur1 -
ofat  pthotised lilc  birthsf; 1060, 1970 nod loot data.                                            AIlte  -uvrty Lotto    leve  Is eat  ocMo. le-1 helenotc       it
A.-us  to Rate Water frcoofeoate)- tonal. obo, cod tote1 - Nos-                                       ootool    deqeerndiet pl.. o....trial eo-fcod  -eqeireso    io sot
her uf people  (ltotal. uriso. and rura)"helrheoo ble  soc... to sa.fe                              Iffedablo.
enter sepplY (toeludes treotred otfee otrmu  atene   .betl tocreiet                               Raimoted ne1-is-e  P-tore   Ien  ten1 (017 ePt csPitl.- ero   and rrlul -
esteI r hso  am  hthorfro   protecedhroee  spign, an   atisry unlIof  Rs fuasi rlaive   -  porY Loce  le-e  is on-third of  -vrgs per capita
perotga  e   hei  reprtn peplati-es. Its  urban arospolI                             pee1unl inoa ofthe ceuntny.   (theeIntl is derIZ  foam  the totl1
t-oanrin or otudpcr lbested oct more than 200 seter-             o  eecn   a  he                    leve  with  dje__tmt  for higher cs  of llieg tot  racb aras
tansebstIe. .Alcs  sA.Ild I.Ply that rho houseife cctashor   of the h...hold                        sod r-r1   P-Pecent of  .puplatieo  forts a adcrural)  h.osaenaLt
de our hov  to spad s diepreportousne pero of rho day  io fetching the                               oI"
Atonte       re .n.rta DIssoAAi(ecn   ieelol -f              tersl, trba, sAd rena  -
Woter of people (total, antn, od rota) served by eocrnrs disposal as
Percents.   of thoir r-petive  Lopoto.he                .. Rarte disposalImay iototedo
th    o ise da sa  disesslI with 00 w -tmos  tresimet. of hama  anemia.
sad enste-inte  by waterb-hos   yt    en the see of pit pWivs   and simi-
Ponuintin ear Phsician -PePulatiet dtnidn   hy o't of prettinta   phymi-                                                             Econoic .d Bno.  Bats Divisio
tRess qalif led  ram  a moiosi sohoel an rs_vanmty level,                                                                     festage  Amalyols amd Pvojsotge  Dtpertast
PosuIstiod                F--ose   Pro   - Pepuanian  dIi1ded by  .. an  of praotiagcg                                                                    BAY 1KK2
..."  Ws  tai. gmadoss soam           . s tetat moe.   eal             essand
Sosig        tlrfs



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                 Annual growth rates (2)
current prices)                       Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                            1979            1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            28,854            7.1     6.2      5.9      5.9      4.7       5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3     7.1      8.3
Agriculture                      6,991           8.6      5.0      4.8      5.3      4.3       5.2      5.2      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                        10,174          1U.0      /./      6.4      b./      ).8       6.5      /.2      7.5     /.5      8.5    1U.0
bervices                        11,689           3.7      5.7      6.3      5.5      5.0       5.6     6.2      6.0      6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                       21,860            4.3     5.2      4.6      4.8      4.2       5.4      5.2      4.9      5.1     5.8      7.0
Gross investment                   8,576            8.0     0.7    13.3       7.4      4.8       6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1     8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                 5,528           19.9    17.6      1.6      7.4    11.3       10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                    7,110            1.3     5.3    13.2    10.3        5.2       6.6      6.7      6.5     6.6      6.8      7.2
Gross national savings             6,665          -2.0    11.3       8.3      7.7      3.1       -        -        -       -        -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                        183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9          -        -       -        -        -        _
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                            7.45    7.41    7.38    7.39         7.52      -        -       -        -        -        -
Export price index (19/8 - lUU)                   92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 - 100)                   91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 - 100)                101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1         98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share ot GDP at market prices (x)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /c                                  (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   19/0-/5'  19/5-8U   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             5.1         6.1        5.9        6.3        7.6
Agriculture                       28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0             4.3        4.3        4.8         5.0        5.0
Industry                          25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    3/.7    4U.6             6.U        8.6        /.6        /.5        9.1
bervices                          46.1    42.6    3/.5    3/.1    3/.3    37.4             5.2        5.4        5.7        6.1         7.7
consumption                       85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7             4.8        5.5        5.2         5.2        6.5
Gross investment                  16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5             8.2       11.5        6.5         6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                   10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5             5.8        3.2       10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                   10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4             6.8        6.8        8.0        6.6        6.9
Gross national savings            16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2             7.4        9.7        -          -          -
As x of GDP
1960       1970       19/5       1980         Labor Force in 1978           Millions    (Z)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                               Agriculture                   7.4       44.4
Current revenues                            9.8        9.5       13.9       12.8           Industry                      2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                        9.6       10.9       12.3        9.6           Services                      5.6       33.0
Current surplus                             0.2       -1.4        1.6        4.1           Unemployed                    1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                         2.3        1.9        3.2        3.2
Foreign financing                           -          0.1        0.3        1.5                Total Labor Force       16.8      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (x)                                  5.1               5.6               5.9              6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (t)                       2.0               2.7               3.2              3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (1)                   7.4               6.2               4.2              4.7               4.6
ICOR                                                        4.5               4.7              4.6               4.5               4.1
Marginal savings rate                                     0.285             0.330              0.26             0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                          1.33              1.12              1.20             1.05              0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
/b  Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Rgional Office
November 1981



ANNEX I
- 31 -                                       Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.              Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services              4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods              3,151   3,425   4,602   5,188   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,/1U  14,220
Imports of goods and services              5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:  imports of goods              3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                              260      312      355      434      500     550      610      ttO      730
Current Account Balance                   -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                      216      171       99       45      290     320      350      390      420
MLT loans (net)                              662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310           920
Official-source loans (net)                332      333      449      375     851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                 330      501      642     657      519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) Ia                       113       56    -193       593      455     300      300      300      30U
Overall Balance /b                         164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200           -      200      530
international reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Keserve as months of imports                 3.5      3.6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                        1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
concessional Loans                          88      120      183     178
Bilateral                                 62       56     113      101
IDA                                        2        1        3       2
Other multilateral                        24       63      67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,281   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                  123      121     152        8
IBRD                                      99     160      204      221
Other multilateral                        30       47      81       83
Private sources                        1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Ottictal-source                        1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                         3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                         2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                     762      910   1,028   1,259
Ot which:  interest                      183      270     486      659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                            18.3    18.8    16.6    16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                            7.5      5.5      5.5     6.9
Private-source (DRS)                       8.4      9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                           18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                       9.0    10.2    11.1       9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
Th  Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981



- 32 -                           ANX1
ANNEX II
Page i of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                      Anount (less cancellations)
Number      FY'   Borrower                 Purpose                          Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six Loans and three credits fully disbursed                          485.82  32.20
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation            9.50              0.16
998-PH   1974           "                 DBP I                             50.00              0.43
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                 61.U0              0.51
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                            25.00              7.83
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                     17.00              2.87
1102-PH   1975           "                 Rural Development                 25.00              4.88
1154-PH   1976           "                Magat Irrigation                   42.00              5.81
1190-PH   1976           "                 DBP II                            75.00              1.29
1224-T-PH 1976           "                 Education III                     24.73              2.23
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                   50.00            25.80
12/2-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                       10.00              2.99
1282-PH   1976           "                Manila Urban                       22.00              6.58
1269-PH   1977           "                 Second Grain Processing           11.50              4.04
1353-PH   1977           "                Third Highways                     95.00            44.98
1367-PH   1977           "                Jalaur Irrigation                  15.00              5.55
1374-PH   1977                             Fourth Education                  25.00              6.64
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.50             12.30
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.        50.00            30.25
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                  7.89
1421-PH   1977                            Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II          15.00              6.93
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                         58.00             30.63
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming           8.00              5.90
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                30.00              5.15
1526-PH   1978 Rep. ot the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00                48.30
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                       28.00    21.09
S.8-PH   1978                             Education                          2.00              0.88
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                 60.00              1.05
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                  15.00              1.05
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                          150.00            22.97
1572-PH   1978                             Industrial Investment III         80.00            25.20
1615-PH   1979                            Manila Water Supply II             88.00            78.14
1bZ6-PH   1979                            National Extension                 35.00            30.10
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose           21.00             14.22
1646-PH   1979                            Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50                 10.12
1647-PH   1979                            Second Urban Development           32.00            21.65
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                       100.00            97.44
1710-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                    16.00             16.00
920-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                           22.00    19.17
1727-PH   1979                             Small & Medium Industry II        25.00              0.36
923-PH   1979                             Population II                             40.00    39.30
1772-PH   1980                            Samar Island Rural Devel.          27.00            23.92
1786-PH   1980           "                Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)         38.00            37.31
1809-PH   1980           "                Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.00            67.06
1814-PH   1980           "                Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00                57.18
1815-PH   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)    12.00                11.21
1821-PH   1980                            Third Urban                        72.00            60.59
1855-PH   1980                            Third Ports                        6/.00            65.11
1860-PH   1980                            Rural Roads Improvement            62.00            57.86
1890-PH   1981           "                Watershed Management               38.00            36.48
1894-PH   1981           "                Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00                33.90
1903-PH   1981                            Structural Adjustment             200.00              3.96
1984-PH   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)            150.00           149.88
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan              100.00            100.00
2040-PH   1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                  45.00            44.97
2067-PH/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                      8.00              8.00
Total                                                                2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                             236.50
Total now outstanding                                                2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                              24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        23.06            1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                               2,729.77 122.20
total undisbursed                                                    1,346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Not yet effective.



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the          15.0     4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0     -        8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                  -       4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              3.7      .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8     0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -      2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2     2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0     -       15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5     -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6          0.6      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2     -        1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0      -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -        2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1      5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                       5.0      0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business              -        0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5      -        4.5
1981          Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                 18.5       .7    19.2
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -           5.0      5.0
1981          Davao Union Cement Corp.                      16.0      -       16.0
Total gross commitments                      120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                             34.5      0.8    35.3



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and Diayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980.  Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%. The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for- the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. YWork on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. The project is now scheduled for completion in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984. Towards the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorganized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



- 36 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major construction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on-farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storage dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
mentation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported investments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pace of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981.  Feasibility sLudies have been comple-.ce for t'wo of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project;
$80.0 Million Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design for most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981. Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints. \ Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director.  The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project's objectives. The influence of the Project Manager - the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally. Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President's Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MOA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH  Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
EfrecLiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate. The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646 Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island. Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users'
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities. However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations. Force account works have been started. Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season mult-iple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet season target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers' training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office. Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress should continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems. Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation. The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981. The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Loan No. 1894 Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well and cumulative disbursements have
ben slightly ahead of schedule. Estimated commitments over the medium term
indicate that this trend should continue. In general, lending for fisliponds
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for
seagoing vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) Studies being
carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries should be under way shortly,
and institutional strengthening of the Development Bank of the Philippines
is currently in progress. The need for a study on fishing gear technology
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council is being reviewed,
but a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and was declared effective
in November 1981. New agencies have been established, and existing agencies
organized to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been
encountered due to confusion over the designation of responsibilities
between the Central Office, the staff bureaus and the Regional Offices
following the 1980 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and non-
release of scheduled local start-up funds in 1981.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 65% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The Ministry of
Public Highways was poorly managed. However, it was merged in 1981 with the
Ministry of Public Works and its operations are now improving. Further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management, and a short-term
action program was agreed in detail in 1981 with the Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWH) in order to tighten the project implementation. MPWH
has adhered to the schedule of the action program, and works on national
and minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. The road
maintenance and restoration programs have been reduced in scope to establish
more realistic targets. Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools
and other machinery has been completed. Consultants for supervision of
construction of roads and workshops are in place and the road and ferry
feasibility studies have been completed. The technical assistance advisors
to MPWH completed their assignment in November 1979 and training advisors to
MPWH completed their work in March 1980. Overall, the project is likely to
be completed by mid-1983, the revised completion date.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainly by slow procurement, the
implementation of this project has now started to progress more rapidly. MPWH
has adhered, with some minor delays, to the action program agreed upon in
May 1981, and has recently made significant progress by awarding nine of the
ten national road construction contracts. Nevertheless, the overall delay now
amounts to at least a year. The detailed engineering for construction of
workshops is well under way. Pilot maintenance programs for four regions have
started and procurement of maintenance equipment is under way.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu is virtually
complete. Contracts for the main construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and mobilization is under way. The
contract for the main construction work at the Port of Cagayan de Oro is still
under evaluation. Arrangements for construction supervision are still not
satisfactory and the Government is attempting to improve its field supervision
organization with the help of technical assistance consultants.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981 dry
season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently, the
Ministry of Local Government has awarded contracts for the first year's
program packages, and the works are now starting. Contracts for improvement
of the national road in Occidental Mindoro have recently been awarded, and the
contractors are mobilizing. Consulting services for the technical assistance
component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main component of the project, which is the development,
printing and distribution of 27 million primary and secondary textbooks and
teachers' manuals in five subject areas, has made good progress. The project



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion. Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). Uncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress. The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions. This release is expected shortly. The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Government's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures. These difficulties should be
minimized by the transfer of expertise from EDPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282       $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976   Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800 plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982. Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.10 road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984. The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415 Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
-ay 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615 Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647       Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979- Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs (50% over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



- 45 -                      ANNEX EI
Page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schedule. In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is underway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920 Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend. The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented. Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067  Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by April 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised
project cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing date of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about $1.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, NEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NEA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of March 31,
1982; stood at $24.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory. The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan ot May 8, 1978; Date of Eftectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank ot the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow tor completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component ($24.5 million) was tully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress ot the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date ot Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank). Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan ot
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of.which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982. Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry. Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministry of Health, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979). A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the Minister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff. All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of tunds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being tinalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



ANNEX III
- 50 -                          Page l of2
PHILIPPINES
Geothermal Exploration Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:                   32 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                                Ministry of Energy/PNOC
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                     March 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:                     November 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                          August 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      December 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   PNOC-EDC would submit to the Bank for review and comment on an annual
basis, starting not later than January 1983, its proposed exploration
program for areas under the project reflecting any adjustments from
the previously agreed programs (para. 56).
2.   PNOC-EDC would hire consultants, upon completion of exploration at
Palinpinon and Bacon-Manito, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, to carry out studies to confirm their respective producible
reserves before development is initiated (para. 57).
3.   PNOC would complete the two geothermal exploration/development
policy studies by the end of 1983, at which time they would be reviewed
by the Bank with the Government and state energy enterprises, with a
view to implementation as appropriate (para. 57).
4.   The execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between PNOC
and PNOC-EDC would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 59).
5.   PNOC-EDC would maintain a debt/equity ratio of not higher than 60/40
and a current ratio, exclusive of transactions with other parts of
PNOC, of not less than 1.5:1 (para. 73).



- 51 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
6.   Disbursements against expenditures on drilling services would be subject
to Bank approval of the relevant annual drilling program for Palinpinon
and Bacon-Manito and the location and objective of each well for the
other areas as well as for the non-power wells at Bacon-Manito (paras. 56
and 76).



- 52 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
Geothermal Exploration Project
1. Summary of Drilling Results at the Palinpinon Field
as of December 1981
Temperature      Power Potential,
Completion  Drilled    Vertical                  of Main Inflow   MWe @2.5 kg/sec-MW
Well        Date      Depth, m   Depth, m   Cost, US$          Zone, °C      and @0.55 MPa WHP
Exploration-Wells Dri-lled Outside Dedicated Areas
N-1       10-76         607.5        ---       247,725            203          .99 (scaling
problem)
N-2        11-76        610.5        ---       229,800            176          0   (hot water
only)
N-3        12-77        970.9        ---           ---            242         3.5
OK-1        4-78      1,978.9        ---       631,412            190          0
OK-3        6-78      1,521.8        ---       284,875            224          0
Wells in Eastern Area, Dedicated to Plant #1
OK-2        4-78      1,164.4        ---       224,300            245         2.8
OK-4        8-78     2,130.0         ---       488,112            228          0
OK-7        4-80     2,882.8         ---    1,102,087             302        12.5
OK-9       10-80     2,889.0    2,543        1,230,750            291         6.4
OK-10       1-81     3,018.9    2,435.8   1,201,675               259?        6.8
OK-12       4-81     2,797.5    2,666.8   1,731,262               247         4.2 (to be used
for injection)
OK-13       7-81     2,853.8    2,697.1   1,662,975               244         3.2
PN-14        ---         ---         ---           ---            ---          ABANDONED
PN-15      8-81      2,807        2,715            ---            260         6.7
PN-16        ---         ---         ---           ---            ---          DRILLING IN
PROGRESS
PN-17     11-81      3,049        2,900            ---            ---          HEATING
PN-18        ---         ---         ---           ---            ---          DRILLING IN
PROGRESS
Wells in Western Area, Dedicated to Plant #2
OK-5      10-78      1,975.2         ---       461,737            264         8.2
OK-6        1-80     2,770.8         ---    1,229,100             285        10.1
OK-8       7-80      2,981.8         ---    1,774,200             ---         4.0 (approximately)
OK-11       3-81     2,817.9    2,461.9   1,642,787               ---          0
SG-1       7-81      2,762.8         ---    1,575,412             260         5.6
SG-2      10-81      2,945           ---           ---            282         5.2
NJ-1         -           ---         ---           ---            ---          DRILLING IN
PROGRESS



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
2.  Summary of Drilling Results at the Bacon-Manito Prospect
as of November 1981
Depth of
Maximum         Maximum        Bottomhole,    Power
Completion    Drilled   Temperature,   Temperature,  Temperature,  Capacity,
Well       Date       Depth, m         °C               m               QC           MW
MAN-1      6-74        1,372           214       1,343 to bottom        214           0
MAN-2      8-79        1,637.2         247       1,620 to bottom.       247           0
CN-1       7-81        2,553.1         269       2,100 to 2,300         240          12
PB-1       9-81        2,581.1        226       2,300 to 2,400          223        not yet
tested
IM-1      11-81        2,591.5         -                                           heating



- 54 -
ANNEX V
PHILIPPINES
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
PNOC-EDC Geothermal Exploration/Development Program
1982   1983    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Luzon
Bacon-Manito I   1E*       5E*    5E*      9D    12D
Bacon-Manito II                            3E     3E    12D    12D
Others                            8E*                            5E    12D    12D
Low temperature
wells           2E       2E*                                   3E      8E     8E
Leyte e
Tongonan II       4D
Biliran           3E
Negros
Palinpinon I    12D       5D
Palinpinon II    2E*      2E*   11D
6D
Negros III                        2E       5E     4E    lOD      2D
5D
Mindanao           not provided since no firm program.
Note:  * included in Bank project
E exploration well
D development well



_ 55 _                              ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
Geothermal Exploration Project
PNOC Consolidated Financial Statements
PNOC CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31:                                      1981      1980        1979
(million pesos)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                       185       164         163
Short-Term Cash Investments                             2,555      1,800       1,647
Accounts and Notes Receivable (1)                        4,246     2,212       1,249
Inventories (2)                                          4,914     4,330       2,765
Other Current Assets                                       534        513        202
Total                                                  12,434      9,019       6,026
Net Property, Plant and Equipment (3)                      2,705      2,357      1,760
Exploration and Development Costs (4)                      1,313        753        465
Other Assets                                                 640        514        678
TOTAL                                                     17,091    12,671       8,929
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                         1,540      1,322        762
Liability for Crude Oil and
Petroleum Products Importations (5)                  2,533      1,406       1,247
Short-Term Loans                                        7,839      5,433       3,245
Other Current Liabilities                                  492       398         204
Total                                                  12,404      8,559       5,458
Long-Term Debt                                             1,166     1,218       1,147
Other Liabilities                                             49         48          50
Equity of Subsidiaries' Minority Stockholders                170        166        161
Stockholders' Equity
Authorized Capital Stock:  10,000,000 shares-
no par value
Paid-In Capital Stock                                    1,477     1,093         837
Retained Earnings (6)                                    1,825     1,587       1,277
TOTAL                                                     17,091    12,671       8,929
Current Ratio-times                                         1.00      1.05        1.10
Debt/Equity Ratio                                          26:74     31:69       35:65
Total Debt/Equity Ratio                                    81:19     79:21       76:24



ANNEX VI
- 56 -                                 Page 2 of 2
PNOC CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
Year Ending December 31:
1981      1980        1979
(million pesos)
Sales and Other Revenues                                 22,491    18,576      11,513
Cost of Revenues                                         20,841    17,315      10,877
Gross Profit                                              1,650      1,261         636
Operating Expenses                                          301        294         198
Operating Income                                          1,349        968        438
Interest and Other Charges, net                             673        216          81
Income Before Tax                                           676        752        357
Tax Expenses                                                312        424          86
Income Before Share of Minority Stockholders                364        328        271
Share of Minority Stockholders                                6          4           5
Net Income                                                  358        324        266
Cash Dividend                                               109         84         -
Profit Margin                                                 6.4%       5.2%        3.8%
Return on Capital Employed                                    8.6%       9.0%        9.7%
Debt Service Coverage - times                                 4.10       5.18        5.54
Notes to PNOC Consolidated Financial Statements:
(1) Accounts and notes receivable at year-end 1981 consisted of 2,837
million pesos for trade and 1,463 million pesos for non-trade, less 54
million pesos allowance for doubtful accounts.
(2) Inventories including crude oil, petroleum products, materials and
supplies are valued at cost; those on hand at end-1981 totalled 3,439
million pesos and those in transit 1,475 million pesos.
(3) Property, plant, and equipment of certain subsidiaries was revalued in
1971; remainder is stated at cost. Total value is 3823 million pesos,
less accumulated depreciation of 1118 million pesos.
(4) Prior to 1980, for those subsidiary companies in the exploration and
development stage, all costs incurred, reduced by incidental revenues,
were accumulated and deferred. In 1981 PNOC set up a general
provision for the non-recoverability of these costs amounting to 92.2
million pesos. The balance of exploration and development costs is
net of this provision and the costs of projects written off pertaining
to geothermal and coal activities (63.2 million pesos in total for
1980 and 1981).
(5) Includes liabilities for customs duties and other importation costs.
(6) Includes outstanding balances on payments by Government special funds
as part of PNOC's reserves (208 million pesos year-end 1981), as well
as other credits (32 million pesos) and revaluation increment in
property, plant, and equipment (49 million pesos).



- 57 -
ANNEX VII
PHILLIPINES
Geothermal Exploration Project
PNOC-EDC Balance Sheets
PNOC-EDC BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31:                             1981       1980      1979
(million pesos)
ASSETS:
Current assets
Cash                                             7.6       1.2        0.7
Inventory of parts and supplie2 1,             165.6     111.2       70.1
Due from affiliated companies _/                 4.2      18.2        0.5
Other current assets                             4.7       8.4        5.1
Total                                          182.1     139.0       76.4
Net property, plant and equipmen1 3/             207.3      106.2      46.9
Exploration & Development Costs -               1009.6      537.1     318.0
TOTAL                                         1399.0     782.3      441.3
LIABILITIES & EQUITIES
Current liabilities
Due to NPC                                      15.6      21.7       22.9
Due to affiliated companies 2/                 713.5     446.3      235.9
Accounts payable and other                      54.9      40.8       11.0
Total                                         794.0       -8.8      269.8
Long term debt                                    65.9       25.6
Stockholders' Equity -
Authorized capital stock:
300 million pesos
Paid-in capital stock                          549.1     247.9      171.5
TOTAL                                         1399.0     782.3      441.3
I/  Inventories are valued at cost.
2/  Except for normally recurring charges and credits, the balances due from/to
affiliated companies bear interest at approximately the currently prevailing
rates.
3/  Mainly construction in progress.
41 Exploration costs incurred to date, reduced by incidental revenues and ammounts
spent on abandoned prospects, have been accumulated and deferred; their recovery
is dependent on the success of future operations in the search for geothermal
energy sources in commercial quantities.
5/  Paid in capital (1981) includes a deposit in advance of formal approval of the
capital increase to 1.5 billion pesos.



- 58 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
Geothermal Exploration Project
Assumptions on PNOC-EDC Financial Projections
1. Geothermal Exploration/Development Plan
1.1       The projected geothermal exploration/development of PNOC-EDC for
the financial projections is at Annex IV.
2. Macro Economic Variables
2.1       Inflation rates used in respect of foreign costs are 8% per year
for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and 6.0% per year
for 1986-90; for local costs, the rates used are 10% for 1982 and
8.0% per year for 1983-90. The current exchange rate of 8.3 pesos
to the dollar is assumed constant throughout the period of the
projections.
2.2       Other macroeconomic variables such as short-term interest rates are
held constant.
3. General Assumptions
3.1       The other activity of PNOC-EDC, i.e. uranium exploration, is not
considered because its portion constitutes less than 0.5% of total
operations.
3.2       Interest during construction is capitalized and amortized over
10 years.
4. Income Statements
4.1       Revenues.  Revenues are computed considering the following
variables:
-    Load factor:  75%
-    Unit price:  The price of steam is estimated on the basis of 15%
financial rate of return in constant prices and is indexed on world
inflation (PNOC-EDC is considering indexing price on the US
Export Price Index); it was estimated on a field by field basis.
-    Tongonan II project serves emergency outage of Tongonan I only.
Its revenues are assumed to cover the operating costs and interest
expenses only.



- 59 -                       ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 3
4.2        Field maintenance costs.  The maintenance costs are computed on a
field by field basis as follows:
-    Workover drilling costs:  One half of the number of wells is to be
worked over each year.
-    2% of costs of steam gathering system and surface facilities.
-    Estimated field staff costs for one production supervisor, two
engineers, one shift engineer, and eight technicians per each
project.
-    Overhead allocations of main office expenses, etc.
4.3        Depreciation.  All the tangible assets are depreciated over a
10-year period.
4.4        Amortization.  The intangible assets are amortized over 10 years on
a straight line method for accounting purposes.
4.5        Interest expenses.  Interest during construction is capitalized.
The interest expenses are assumed at 14.5% for short-term
borrowings from PNOC, and at 11.4% for long-term borrowings from
the World Bank.
4.6        Taxes and royalties.  For accounting purposes, 60% of the operating
income is computed as Government share of net proceeds in the form
of royalty and income tax. For tax purposes, tangible expenses are
depreciated over a 10 year period in equal annual amounts, whereas
intangible expenses are immediately expensed with a recovery ceiling
of 60% of annual revenues. Under the Philippine tax law, interest
expenses are not allowable against tax.
4.7        Revaluation gains.  Tangible and intangible assets are revalued
every year according to a composite escalation factor based on
estimated inflation.
5. Balance Sheets
5.1       Debt/equity ratio.  Debt/equity ratio is targeted at a maximum of
60/40. Debt is assumed to be reduced gradually in order to avoid
large immediate equity funding requirements.
5.2       Cash, prepaid expenses.  These are assumed to be maintained quite
stable over time.
5.3        Inventories.  It is considered here that the inventories are mostly
dependent on the number of wells to be drilled and field
maintenance. Accordingly, 150 days requirements of materials and
supplies are computed as inventories.



- 60 -                         ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 3
5.4       Accounts receivable.  Turnover is assumed to be 45 days.
5.5       Accounts payable.  7.5Z of expenditure on fixed and intangible
assets are computed as accounts payable.
5.6        Investments.  These are estimated on a field by field basis
according to the exploration/development scenario.
6. Sources and Uses of Funds (Financing Plan)
6.1       The requirement of equity funding is so calculated as to keep PNOC-
EDC's debt/equity ratio at a maximum of 60/40. In addition, costs
for dry wells will be written off immediately against equity.
6.2        Long-term borrowings.  It is assumed that all foreign exchange
costs will be provided by World Bank or other agency on similar
terms. The conditions are a five-year grace period and a 15-year
repayment period. The interest rate is 11.4% per annum exclusive
of 1.5% front-end fee in a single payment and 0.75% commitment fee.
Also the front-end fee will be financed by the Bank.
6.3        Due to NPC.  NPC transferred its geothermal exploration related
assets in 1978, the price of which will be recovered from the steam
bill of PNOC-EDC.
6.4        Due to PNOC.  All the short-term loan is assumed to come from the
PNOC parent company on a roll-over basis.



- 61 -
Annex IX
PNOC-EDC
INCOME STATEMENTS
IN MILLION PESOS
1982  1983   1984   1985        1986      1987      1988     1989      1990
REVENUES                             22.9  36.5  661.0  931.1  1,230.4  1,593.8  2,129.3  3,047.1  3.235.7
OPERATING EXPENSES
FIELD MAINTENANCE COSTS               -      -   61.0   79.0       99.5    143.0    171.0    242.8    262.1
DEPRECIATION                       22.9  36.5   46.7   56.5        70.7      74.5      96.7    105.7    117.9
AMORTIZATION                          -      -  282.7  350.8    429.9    498.0    608.4    696.2    782.9
SUB-TOTAL                          22.9  36.5  390.4  486.3    600.1    715.5    876.1  1,044.7  1,162.9
OPERATING INCOME                        -      -  270.6  444.8    630.3    878.3  1,253.2  2,002.4  2,072.8
OTHER INCOME                            -      -       -       -        -         -         -         -      40.1
INTEREST EXPENSES                       -      -   39.6   94.8    128.8        70.9      86.9      38.5         -
INCOME AFTER INTERESTS                  -      -  231.0  350.0    501.5    a07.4  1,166.3  1,963.9  2,112.9
TAX I ROYALTY EXPENSES                  -      -  162.4  266.9    378.2    527.0    751.9  1,201.4  1,243.7
INCOME AFTER TAXES AND ROYALTIES        -      -   68.6   83.1    123.3    280.4    414.4    762.5    869.2
OPERATING RATIO(W)                      -      -   59.1   52.2       48.8      44,9      41.1      34.3      35.9
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM 1 DIVISION
09!08/82



- 62 -
Annex X
PNOC-EDC
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
IN MILLION PESOS
1982   1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988     1989      199
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNALLY GENERATED FUNDS:
EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES               -      -    270.6    444.8    630.3    878.3  1,253.2  2,003.9  2,202,6
DEPRECIATION                                  22.9   36.5      46,7      56.5      70i7     74.5      96.7    105.7    117.9
AMORTIZATION                                     -      -    282.7    350.8    429.9    498.0    608.4    696.2    782.9
SUB-TOTAL                                     22.9   36.5    600.0    852.1  1,130,9  1,450.8  1,958.3  2,805.8  3,103.4
OTHER LONG TERN SOURCES:
SPECIAL FUNDS EQUITY FUNDING                 201.1  379.0    219.3    270,1    120.8    248.1         49.7         -        -
INCREASE IN LONG TERM DEBT
WORLD BANK                                   68.8  151.5    311.8    350.7    272.9    472.8    338.7    348,0    293.4
OECF-JAPAN                                  120.0   63.8         -         -         -        -         -         -        -
CDC OR OTHERS                                   -      -      61.4      69.1     53.8      93.2      66.7     68.6      57.8
SUB-TOTAL                                   188.8  215.3    373.2    419.8    326.7    566.0    405.4    416.6    351.2
INCREASE IN DUE TO AFFILIATES                 494.6  185.3      31.0         -         -        -         -         -        -
INCREASE IN ACCOUNT PAYABLES                   12.7  (11.0)    10.1       15.1    (11,8)    38.2    (13.1)       8.7      (3.7)
TOTAL SOURCES                                 920.1  805.1  1,233.6  1,557.1  1,566,6  2,303.1  2,400.3  3,231.1  3,450.9
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                           769,8  622,0    716.7    905.6    735.0  1,215.1  1,022.5  1,090.7  1,027.6
REPAYMENT OF DUE(OR LENDING)TO AFFILIATES         -       -        -      56.2    219.1    218.7    502.5    868.6    900.5
REPAYMENT TO NPC                                  -      -      15.6         -         -        -         -         -        -
DEBT SERVICE
LONG TERM DEBT AMORTIZATION                      -      -         -         -      4.0       9.0      19.0     44.0      77.1
INTERESTS ON LONG TERM DEBT                    9.6   25.1      56.9    103.9    147.9    200.7    259.0    310.0    359.7
INTERESTS ON DUE TO AFFILIATES               138.7  188,0    203.7    201.9    181.9    150.2         97.9        -         -
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                           148.3  213.1    260.6    305,8    333.8    359.9    375.9    354.0    436.8
TAXES AND ROYALTY PAYMENTS                        -      -    142.7    214.5    278.7    358.4    475.4    788.8  1,076.0
INCREASE IN CURRENT ASSETS                      2.0  (30.0)    98.0      75.0         -    151.0      24.0    129.0       10.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                            920.1  805.1  1,233.6  1,557.1  1,566.6  2,303.1  2,400.3  3,231.1  3,450.9
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO-TIMES(l)                             1.8       2.1      2,6       3.0       3.9      5.7       4.6
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO-TIMES(2)                             4.5       4.2      4.4       4.5       5.0      5.7       4.6
NOTE:(l)DUE TO AFFILIATES=LONG TERM DEBT
(2)DUE TO AFFILIATES=SHORT TERM DEBT
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
PETROLEUM DIVISION 1
09?/ 0  82



-  63  -                                            Annex  XI
PNOC-EDC
BALANCE SHEETS
IN MILLION PESOS
1982     1983      1984      1985       1986       1987       1988       19R9       1990
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
CASH                                     3.0       3.5       4.0      4.5        5.0         5.5        6.0        6.5       7.0
INVENTORIES                            169.4    136.8    157.5    199.3        161.7      267.3      225.1      240.0      226.2
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                      2.8       4.6      61.5    114.8      151.7      196.5      262.5      375.7      399.0
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                     4.7       4.7       4.7       4.7        4,7       4,7        4,7        4,7        4,7
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                   179.9    149.6    247.7    323.3        323.1      474.0      498.3      626.9      636.9
CLUE FROM AFFILIATES                        -         -         -         -          -         -           -     444.9   1,345.4
PROPERTT,PLANT IEQUIPMENTS              381.6    518.0    663.1    864.0        986.5   1i290.0   1,498.7   1,754.3   1,955.2
LESS ACCUMULATEID DEPRECIATION         (45.3)   (85.8)  (139.2)  (206,4)   (292.4)   (388.0)   (512.8)   (655.6)   (820.9)
NET TANGIBLE ASSETS                    336.3    432.2    523.9    657.6        694.1      902.0      985.9   1,098.7   1,134.3
EXPLORATORY I DEVELOPMENT WELLS    1.842.3  2,646.4  3s580.2  4,665.3   5o733.7   7,275.0 o          ,732.3  10,294.5  l1,943.8
LESS ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION              -         -   (282,7)  (616.3) (1,033.4) (1,530.6) (2,160.2) (2,902.4) (3,766.8)
NET INTANGIBLE ASSETS                1,842.3  2,646.4  3,297.5  4,049.0   4,700.3   5,744.4   6,572.1   7-392.1   8,177,0
TOTAL ASSETS                          2,358.5  3,228.2  4,069.1  5.029.9   50717.5   7,l20.4   8,056.3   9,562.6  11,293.6
LIABILITITS AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
DUE TO NPC                              15.6      15.6         -         -         -          -          -          -          -
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                        57.8      46.7      54.9      69.5      57.1       94.0       80.1       86.7       82.3
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES                9,9       9.9       9.0      9.9        9,9        9.9        9.9        9.9        9.9
LONG TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN A YEAR           -         -         -       4.0       8.0       18.0       38.0       68.0      109.7
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES               83.3      72.2      64.8     83.4       75.0      121.9      128.0      164.6      201.9
.IEFERRED INCOME TAX                        -         -      19,7     72.1      171.6      340.2      616,7   1,029.3   1,197.0
DUE TO AFFILIATES                     1,203.9  1389.2  1,420.2  1.364,0   1,144.9         926.2      423.7          -          -
LONG TERM DEBT
WORLD BANK                              68.8    220.3    532.1    882.8   1,155.7   1,633.5   1,987.2   2,371.2   2Y723.6
OECF-JAPAN                             145.8    209.6    209.6    209.6        209.6      209.6      209.6      209.6      204.5
LONG TERM DUE TO PNOC                   40.1      40.1     40.1      40.1       36.1       32.1       28.1       24.1       20.1
CDC AND OTHERS                             -         -      61.4    130.5      184.3      277.5      344.2      408.8      457.6
TOTAL LONG TERM IIEBT                  254.7    470.0    843.2  1263.0   1,585,7   2,152.7   2,569.1   3,013.7   3,405.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     1,541.9  1,931.4  2,347.9  20782.5   2,977.2   3.541,0   3,737.5   4.207.6   4,804,7
STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY
PAID IN CAFITAL                        687.5    991.3  1,130.1  1,324.9   1,400.0   1,648.1   1,648.1   1,648.1   1,648.1
RETAINED EARNINGS                          -         -      68.6    151,7      275.0      555.4      938.5   1v615.8   2,481.8
RESERVE FOR REVALUATION                129.1    305.5    522.5    770.8   1,065.3   1,375.9   1,732.2   2,091.1   2,359.0
TOTAL E0UITY                           816.6  1,296.8  1,721.2  2,247.4   2,740.3   3,579.4   4,318.8   59355.0   6,488.9
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EDUITY          2,358.5  3,228.2  4,069.1  5-029,9   5,717.5   7,120.4  8056.3   9,562.6  11,293.6
CURRENT RATIO-TIMES(l)                    2.2       2.1       3.8      3.9         4.3       3.9        3.9        3.8        3.2
DEBT/EOUITY RATIO(2)                      0.7       0.7       0.7      0.6        0.6        0.6        0.5        0.4        0.3
NOTE: (1)DUE TO/FORM AFFILIATES=LONG TERM
)2)DEBT=LONG TERM DEBT+DUE TO AFFILIATES
EOUITY=EXCLUSIVE OF RESERVE FOR REVALUATION
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
'ETROLEUM DIVISION 1
09/08/82






C                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V tlywON 
0 ,oewa,opua ~0 Jo bp,ny A* ~esoi,r,et2, S2~2 20 22J000022142,0 s2 N4H.
~woo,w~ 2,)b2O2  0VN0220, 2a  0,4,paOwO020,N2 oo 021
~~~~~~~' ~ ~     ~         ~        j'
V45  9NIddI         oaa                                                                                                                  9I0)V
O~~~/IVVCNIW                     ry /VXV/
E,41Ž7
040,O rvof                                             O6OVI       4420W
*702!  ~  ~      ~     ~     ~  odr
4uowdoj-Q,j  japufl~~0064J-20dl2VO                                            ~     L
tsaj!S   4aei-d   I-aq4090  lucq-UON   M410 ~ ~         ~         / 
00      S     ecu        t 0 4002       0 u                                                         I
seiw~~~~~~~~~C
i        23rS   N01-                   3I-W3I3
oeao0po.0a0~~~~~~~ ~~DU0200UJe4ei    -  -                     I~~~~.0 



