OFRCAL
LOAN NUMBER 2203 PH
D3CUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Geothermal Exploration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
Dated                         0       , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2203 PR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       0                      , 1982, between
TNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and the PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) a state-owned company duly
established and operating under the laws of the Republic of
the Philippines (hereinafter called the Guarantor or the
Philippines).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by PNOC Energy Develop-
ment Corporation (hereinafter called PNOC-EDC), a subsidiary of
the Borrower, with the assistance of the Borrower and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower shall make available to PNOC-EDC
the proceeds of the Loan and such other funds as shall be
required for the Project as hereinafter provided;
(C) by an agreement (hereinafter called the Guarantee
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the
Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan as therein set forth; and
(D) the Guarantor has entered into agreements with external
official bilateral sources for grants to the Guarantor of which
an amount equivalent to approximately one million dollars
($1,000,000) will, inter alia, contribute towards Part B of the
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make a Loan to the Borrower on the terms and
conditions set forth herein and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and PNOC-EDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and


﻿-2-
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
res-ective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PNOC-EDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and supplemental agreements made or to be made with respect to
the Project Agreement.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and PNOC-EDC pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c)  "PNOC Charter" means the Charter of PNOC as set forth
in Presidential Decree No. 334 of November 9, 1973, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
(d) "PNOC-EDC Articles of Incorporation" means the articles
of incorporation of PNOC-EDC dated March 5, 1976, and "PNOC-EDC
By-Laws" means the By-Laws of PNOC-EDC dated April 5, 1976.
(e) "PNOC-EDI Articles of Incorporation" means the articles
of incorporation of PNOC Energy Drilling Inc., a subsidiary of
the Borrower, dated July 31, 1980 and "PNOC-EDI By-Laws" means
the By-Laws of PNOC-EDI dated September 5, 1980.
(f) "PNOC-GTC Articles of Incorporation" means the articles
of incorporation, as amended, of PNOC-Geothermal Technology
Corporation, a subsidiary of the Borrower, dated December 12,
1980, and "PNOC-GTC By-Laws" means the By-Laws, as amended, of
PNOC-GTC dated December 12, 1980.
(g)  "Act" means the Geothermal Exploration and Development
Act of the Guarantor, as set forth in Presidential Decree No.


﻿- 3 -
1442 promulgated June 11, 1978, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(h) "BED" means the Bureau of Energy Development of the
Guarantor established within its Ministry of Energy pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 1206 of October 6, 1977, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
(i)  "Governing  Regulation" means    any  of  the  Charter,
Decrees, Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws or Act referred to in
Sections 1.02 (c), 1.02 (d), 1.02 (e), 1.02 (f), 1.02 (g) and
1.02 (h) of this Agreement.
(j)  "Exploration   Agreements"   ;means    the   agreements
(including Geophysical Permits, Geophysical Contracts and Service
Contracts) entered into or to be entered into between BED and
PNOC-EDC pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement,
and such term shall include any schedule to such agreements.
(k)  "Consultants' Services" means     the  services  to  be
provided by consultants and experts to: (i) PNOC pursuant to
Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) PNOC-EDC pursuant to
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
(1)  "Specialized Services" means the drilling and related
services required to carry out the exploration activities under
Part A of the Project.
(m) "local currency" means the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, Specialized Services and


﻿- 4-
Consultants' Services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and Specialized Services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date a- the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to five hundred
thirty-two thousand and twenty dollars ($532,020). The fee shall
be payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall
specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received full
payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw the amount allocated to Category
(5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and pay to itself the amount required for the full
payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for
the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-5-
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, the
interest rate for all Interest Periods commencing in 1982 shall
be 11.43% per annum.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. PNOC-EDC is designated as the representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof
and Article V of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A
and B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall: (i) carry out Part C of the Project and cause PNOC-EDC to


﻿-6-
carry out Parts A and B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement in accordance with the provisions set forth
therein and shall cause PNOC-EDC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
PNOC-EDC therein set forth; and (ii) shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
PNOC-EDC to perform such obligations, and shall not take any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) For the purposes of the Project and without limitation
or restriction upon the generality of Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) relend the proceeds of the
Loan, excluding that relating to Part C of the Project, to
PNOC-EDC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PNOC-EDC under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and (ii) make avail-
able to PNOC-EDC as equity contributions, as and when required,
(A) funds, estimated to amount to the equivalent of $34,500,000,
required for local currency expenditures under the Project, and
(B) any other funds which may be required for the timely comple-
tion of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall take all action which may be
required on its part and within its powers to request, in a
timely fashion, such funds as the Guarantor has undertaken to
provide or cause to be provided pursuant to Section 2.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods, Specialized Services and
Consultants' Services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project until the
completion thereof.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) take all such action
which may be required on its part to enable PNOC-EDC to acquire


﻿-7-
and renew as and when needed all such land and rights in respect
of land, pernits and licenses (including those granted under
Exploration Agreements) as shall be required for PNOC-EDC to
carry out Parts A and B of the Project; (ii) cause PNOC-EDC to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Exploration
Agreements all the obligations of PNOC-EDC therein set forth, and
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to
enable PNOC-EDC to perform such obligations; and (iii) shall not
take any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ geothermal industry and
economic consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank in accordance with the principles and procedures
described in the Consultants' Guidelines.
Section 3.05. As agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
the Borrower shall: (a) cause the studies undertaken under Part C
of the Project to be completed by Decembe- 31, 1983, or such
other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Bank; and
(b) submit to the Guarantor for its consideration such
reports promptly after completion thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, and shall cause its
subsidiaries involved in the execution of this Project to, carry
on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial, engineering, petroleum and
geothermal industry practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain, and cause its subsidiaries involved in the execution of
the Project to operate and maintain, its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in


﻿-8-
accordance with sound engineering, financial and geothermal
industry practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Section 4c04. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on operations and shall,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges, licenses and franchises
owned or held by it and necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 4.05. Except in the normal course of its business,
the Borrower shall not, and shall ensure that its subsidiaries
involved in the execution of the Project shall not, without the
prior approval of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise
dispose of any of their properties or assets which shall or may
adversely affect, in a substantial manner, the efficient carrying
out of their business.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its corporate and
consolidated accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four morths after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assrts as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently repoi.ed to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree! (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property or as security for the payment of debt incurred
for the purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such financial reports, including projected financial statements
and other information as the Bank shall reasonably request,
concerning   the  corporate   and   consolidated  administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all measures required
on its part to increase PNOC-EDC's share capital to enable
PNOC-EDC to carry out its obligations pursuant to Sections 4.03
and 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall, or shall cause PNOC-EDC
to, take all reasonable action which may be required on its part
and within its powers to ensure the timely conclusion of a
soundly based agreement between itself and the National Power
Corporation, a state-owned company duly established and operating
under the laws of the Guarantor, for the supply of steam from
those parts of the Palinpinon and Tongonan geothermal fields
currently under development.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Guarantor or the Borrower or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of PNOC-EDC, or for the suspension of
all or a material part of the operations of PNOC-EDC;
(b) PNOC-EDC shall have been unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
whereby any of its properties shall or may be distributed among
its creditors;
(c) PNOC-EDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement which would or may
materially affect the carrying out of the Project or the purposes
of the Loan;
(d) a Governing Regulation or any provision thereof shall
have been repealed, amended, suspended or waived, so as to affect
adversely: (i) the carrying out of the Project; (ii) the perfor-
mance by the Borrower of any other of its obligations under this
Agreement; (iii) the performance by PNOC-EDC of its obligations
under the Project Agreement; or (iv) the performance by BED or
PNOC-EDC of any of their respective obligations under the
Exploration Agreements; and
(e) the Exploration Agreements shall have been terminated
or abrogated, or any party to any of such agreements shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations thereunder.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after not ffce thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; -Lid


﻿- 11 -
(b)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PNOC-EDC on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
rnatters, within t,e meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly executed,
authorized or ratified by PNOC-EDC, and is legally binding and
enforceable upon PNOC-EDC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and PNOC-EDC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and PNOC-EDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The dateio A,      J9    , is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 ofthz General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Philippine National Oil Company
7901 Makati Avenue
Makati, Metro Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
PNOC                        22259 PNO-PH (RCA)
Makati                      63667 PNOC-PN (Eastern)
Manila, Philippines         45270 PNOC-PM (ITT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By (       I~kV            &~~~i
A  2    Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                21,000,000         100% of foreign
materials and                               expenditures;
consumables                                 100% of local
(other than                                 expenditures
fuel)                                       (ex-factory);
and 80% of local
expenditures for
imported items
locally pro-
cured
(2) Fuel                       1,300,000        50%
(3) (a) Consultants'           1,500,000         100%
Services for
Part B of the
Project
(b) Consultants'            700,000         100%
Services for
Part C of the
Project
(4) (a) Specialized            4,100,000  )
Services for                    )
Part A.2 of                     )
the Project                     )      100% of foreign
)      expenditures
(b) Specialized           1,400,000  )
Services for                    )
Part A.3 of                     )
the Project                     )


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Fee                           532,020         Amount due
(6) Unallocated                5,467,980
TOTAL          36,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedult:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the afGrementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (4) (a)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1982.


﻿- 15 -
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures for services described in (i) Category (4) (a) until the
Bank has notified PNOC-EDC that such services are eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan on the basis of the
Bank's review and approval of the relevant annual drilling
program in respect of Part A.2 of the Project, and (ii) in
Category (4) (b) until the Bank has notified PNOC-EDC that such
services are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan on the basis of the Bank's review and approval of the
approximate location and the objectives of each well in respect
of Part A.3 of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to promote geothermal
exploration in the territory of the Philippines through: (A) the
conducting of a geothermal exploration program (Part A of the
Project); and (B) the provision of technical assistance (Part B
of the Project). In addition, the Project will assist in the
development of the geothermal policy of the Guarantor through the
undertaking of two policy studies (Part C of the Project).
Part A:   Expansion of Geothermal Exploration Program to be
carried out by PNOC-EDC
1.   Geoscientific studies including, inter alia, geologi-
cal, geophysical and geochemical studies to identify appropriate
locations and targets for drilling operations.
2.   Drilling of exploration wells, on the basis of the
results of the geoscientific studies carried out under Part A.1.
of the Project and other relevant data, to bring two prospective
areas to the stage where firm development decisions can be
taken. It is estimated that:
(a) approximately   4 wells will     be  drilled  to  an
average depth of about 12,000 feet in Southern
Negros to support a second 110 MWe of power
generating capacity in the area; and
(b) approximately 11 wells will be       drilled  to  an
average depth of about 9,000 feet in Bacon-Manito
to support a minimum of 110 MWe of power genera-
ting capacity.
3.   Drilling of exploration wells, on the basis of the
results of the geoscientific studies carried out under Part A.1.
of the Project and other relevant data, to identify prospective
areas close to potential markets. It is estimated that:
(a) approximately   8 wells will     be  drilled  to  an
average depth of about 9,000 feet in one or more
of the following areas: Balungo, Del Gallego,
Irosin, Mabini, Montelago and Mt. Pinatubo on
Luzon; and


﻿- 17 -
(b) two shallow exploration wells will be drilled in
Bacon-Manito to establish the availability of
low-enthalpy steam.
Selection of the area/areas in which wells will be drilled under
subparagraphs (a) and (b) above shall be carried out in agreement
with the Bank.
4.   Studies to establish the extent of producible reserves
on the basis of the additional drilling to be undertaken under
(i) Part A.2 (a) and (ii) Part A.2 (b) above.
5.   In the event that new information (including informa-
tion of a geological, geophysical, geochemical, topographical or
economic nature) is acquired which makes it desirable to adjust
the number of exploration wells and/or change the areas in which
the exploration is to be undertaken as described in Parts A.2
and 3 above, the program as described may be adjusted with the
approval of the Bank and PNOC.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
Technical assistance to support PNOC-EDC in geoscientific
and reservoir studies and drilling operations as necessary for
carrying out Part A of the Project.
Part C:   Policy Studies
1.   A study of (a) the approach to determining priorities
among the various geothermal locations in the Philippines and (b)
the appropriate bases for contracting steam supplies in the
Philippines.
2.   An evaluation of the economics of non-power uses of
steam and the appropriate extent of geothermal drilling required
for such purposes.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule.
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1988
through   December 1, 2002                  1,200,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the iespective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The Interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on
the day of prepayment multi-
plied by:
Not more than three years                         0.15
before mat rity
More than three years but not                     0.30
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                       0.55
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                   0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                         1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereunder, goods and Specia-
lized Services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and Specialized Services to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding, and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PNOC-EDC
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and Specialized Services in question. PNOC-EDC
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or Specialized Services remain to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of the Philippines if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of PNOC-EDC
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
the Philippines equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of


﻿- 22 -
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for Specialized Services (for mud logging and
electric logging, cementing and testing, geochemical analyses and
other highly specialized activities available only from a limited
number of suppliers), which do not exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000 each, and which do not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $6,000,000, may be awarded in accordance with
limited international tendering procedures acceptable to the
Bank; such tendering procedures shall include, in each case, a
solicication of bids from a list of suppliers provided that prior
approval of the Bank is obtained ior such list. Limited inter-
national tendering shall be carried out in accordance with proce-
dures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the Guidelines
except that no notification or advertisement of the invitation to
bid will be required and no margin of domestic or regional pre-
ference for manufacturers or contractors will be applicable. In
the event that less than 3 suppliers are prepared to bid, such
Specialized Services shall be procured on the basis of negotiated
contracts under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for equipment, materials and services procured for
trial purposes which do not exceed the equivalent of $200,000
each and which do not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be procured on the basis of negotiated contracts
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for equipment, materials and consumables, other
than equipment and materials procured pursuant to the terms of
paragraph 2 above, which do not exceed the equivalent of $200,000
each and which do not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
$3,000,000 may be awarded (i) in accordance with local competi-
tive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank or (ii) on the
basis of negotiated contracts on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, in cases where (A) less than 3 suppliers are


﻿- 23 -
prepared to bid or (B) in respect of fuel, where prices are
regulated by the Guarantor on an industry-wide basis.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PNOC-EDC shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PNOC-EDC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform PNOC-EDC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PNOC-EDC shall furnish to the Bank, pr3mptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,


﻿- 24 -
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform PNOC-EDC and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, PNOC-EDC shall inform the
Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform PNOC-EDC and state the reasons
for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  2 IL    dayof       t, of198 .
FOR SECRETARY


