OF C1AL        LOAN NUMBER 2203 PH
DDuM ENTS
uarantee Agreement
(Geothermal Exploration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                            , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2203 PH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       o0    l-23       C&    , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and  INTERNATIONAL   BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION   AND  DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Philippine National Oil Company (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million
dollars ($36,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions  Applicable   to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Oil Industry Special
Fund" means the fund established by the Guarantor pursuant to
Republic Act No. 6173 of April 30, 1971, as amended to the date
of this Agreement, for the purpose of financing energy related
activities in the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, and the obligations of PNOC-EDC under
the Project Agreement and under the Exploration Agreements.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Sections 2.01 and 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall
make available to the Borrower funds required by PNOC-EDC for
expenditures under the Project under appropriate arrangements,
including, inter alia, as and when needed, the allocation to the
Borrower for PNOC-EDC of funds accrued to the Oil Industry
Special Fund.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically
undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that
the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly
to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,


﻿- 3 -
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange  stab4l'7ation  fund, or    similar  functions, for   the
Guarantor.
(d) The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the
foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on public
assets, and to the extent that the Guarantor is unable within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories to make this
undertaking effective, the Guarantor will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall, through BED, grant to
PNOC-EDC and renew such exploration rights and permits as and
when required by PNOC-EDC for the purposes of carrying out the
Project, under Exploration Agreements entered into or to be
entered into between BED and PNOC-EDC for the Project, whose
respective terms and conditions shall be acceptable to the Bank.


﻿(b) The Guarantor shall, through BED, exercise its rights
and undertake its obligations under the Exploration Agreements in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Exploration Agreements or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall discuss, with the Bank and
other appropriate institutions the reports undertaken under Part
C of the Project when such reports are completed, with a view to
implementing recommendations acceptable to the Guarantor made
therein.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                            7550 CBP-PH
Manila                           40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By               '        V   k C
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 198 -2
FOR SECRETARY


