RP24
Volume 12
REPUBUC OF THE PHIUPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HIGHWAYS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE FOR IBRD
,7 I
NATIONAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT
PROJECT - PHASE I (NRIMP-I) 
DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGN AND PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMIENTS
FOR REHABILITATION OF
SAN ENRIQUE-VALLEHERMOSO ROAD (CW-RU-1.6 B)
LA CASTELLANA-CANLAON SECTION, NEGROS ISLAND
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(Volume 616)
MAIN TEXT
JUNE 2002
~FILE COPY
I KATAHIRA & ENGINEERS INTERNATIONAL
in association with
lialcrow HALCROW GROUP LIMITED             TECHNIKS GROUP CORPORATION
DCCD ENGINEERING CORPORATION      MULTI-INFRA KONSULT, INC.






TABLE OF CONTENTS
List of Appendices
List of Tables
List of Figures
Acronyms and Abbreviations
Executive Summary
Page
1     PROJECT DESCRIPTION .           .................. .                1-1
1.1  Location and Condition of the Existing Roadway .              1-1
1.2  Realignment Sections and Construction Limits .                1-I
1.3 The Mount Kanla-on National Park .                             1-1
2     RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES ...                                        2-1
2.1 The DPWH LARR Policy ..                                        2-1
2.2 Basic Principle of the RAP     .         .                     2-2
2.2.1 Locational Planning and Design
2.2.2 Cut-Off Date for Census
2.2.3 Compensation Scheme
2.2.4 Modes of Compensation
2.2.5 Rejection of Government Offer
2.2.6 Formation of Rap Implementation Committee
2.2.7 Grievance Procedures
3     METHODOLOGY.                        .. . ... ...... 3-1
3.1  Orientation of Regional and District Engineering Offices (DEOs) .   3-1
3.2 Preliminary Site Investigation .                               3-2
3.3 Consultation Meeting with LGUs .                               3-2
3.4 Training of Enumerators for the DEOs .                         3-3
3.5 Barangay Level Public Consultation Meetings .                  3-4
3.6  Tagging of Project Affected Structures and Taking of Photographs .   3-5
3.7  Census and Socioeconomic Survey .                             3-6
3.8 Data processing and Analysis .                                 3-6
4     PROCEEDINGS OF PUBLIC CONSULTATION MEETINGS ........ ... . 4-1
4.1 Project Stakeholders .4-3
4.2 The Project Team.                                              44
4.3  Mechanisms for Stakeholder Participation .4-4
5     RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN .              .      ...      .....  .   5-1
5.1  Characterization of Geo-Political Units .5-1
5.1.1 La Castellana, The Host Municipality



Demographic Characteristics
Socioeconomic Characteristics
Development Concerns of the Municipality
5.1.2 MCNP5 and Robles: The Host Sub-Municipalities
5.2  Socioecnomic Profile of PAPs ................................................... 5-6
5.2.1 Demography and Basic Information
Household Size
Educational Attainment
Residence History
5.2.2 Socioeconomic Characteristics
Primary Occupation
Household Income
Sources of Income
Household Expenditures
Availability of Basic Social Services
5.2.3 Project Awareness
5.3  Impact Identification ....................................................  5-18
5.3.1 Impact on the MKNP
Cutting of Prime Forest Trees
Increased Accessibility to the Park
5.3.2 Impact on Land
5.3.3 Impact on Improvements
Structures
Crops and Trees
5.3.4 Impact on Income
5.3.5 Impact on Public Structures
5.4  Compensation and Entitlements   ....................................... 5-24
5.5  Relocation Sites at La Castellana  ................................................... 5-42
5.6  Rap Implementation ................................................... 5-43
5.6.1 Approval of the RAP
5.6.2 Rap Implementation Activities
MOU between DPWH and LGU
Formation and Training of the RIC
Establishment of Detailed Compensation rates
Conduct of Public Information Campaign
Finalization pf Compensation and Other Entitlements of PAPs
Public Meeting
Payment of Compensation and Other Entitlements
Implementation Schedule
5.6.3 Administrative and Contingency Costs



LIST OF APPENDICES
(Volume 2 of RAP Report)
Appendix Al     Compensation and Entitlement Matrix for Individual SPAPs
Appendix A2     Compensation and Entitlement Matrix for Individual MPAPs
Appendix B      Proceedings and Attendance Sheets of the Consultative
Meeting and PCMs
Appendix C      RAP Survey Instrument
Appendix Dl     Summary of Trees Inventoried within the Project Area
Appendix D2     Proposed Work and Financial Plan for Reforestation as Replacement
Appendix El     Photographs of SPAPs
Appendix E2     Photographs of MPAPs
Appendix E3     Barangay Resolution for Relocation Sites
Appendix E4     Photograph of the Relocation Sites
Appendix F      Sketch Maps of PAP's Localtion



LIST OF TABLES
Summary Table Showing Total Compensation and Entitlement Cost
4.1            Issues and Concerns Raised During the PCMs
5.1.1           Population Growth rate of La Castellana, 1918-1995
5.1.2          Population Growth Rates of the Sub-Municipal Units of La Castellana
5.1.3          Distribution of Labor Force In La Castellana by Type of Industry
5.1.4          Comparative Population Densities at the Provincial, Municipal and Sub-
Municipal Levels
5.2.1          Distribution of SPAPs, MPAPs, and Public Infrastructure Facilities by
Barangay
5.2.2a         Household Size of SPAPs
5.2.2b         Household Size of MPAPs
5.2.3a         Educational Attainment of SPAPs
5.2.3b         Educational Attainment of MPAPs
5.2.4a          Residence History of SPAPs
5.2.4b         Residence History of MPAPs
5.2.5          Primary Occupation of SPAPs
5.2.6a         Household Income of SPAPs
5.2.6b         Farm Income of SPAPs
5.2.6c         Non-Farm Income of SPAPs
5.2.7          Average Annual Household Expenditures of SPAPs
5.2.8          Type of Lighting of SPAPs Dwelling Units
5.2.9          Source of Water Supply of SPAPs
5.2.10         Type of Toilet Facilities of SPAPs
5.2.11         Type of Fuel Used by Severely Affected PAPs



5.2.12a        Project Awareness of SPAPs
5.2.12b        Project Awareness of MPAPs
5.2.13a        SPAPs Source of Information About the Project
5.2.13b        MPAPs Source of Information About the Project
5.3.1a         Land Acquisition at Realignment Sections
5.3.1b         Land Acquisition at Cut Sections
5.3.2          Number and Type of Structure of SPAPs Dwelling Units to be Affected
5.3.3          Structure Ownership of Severely Affected PAPs
5.3.4          Trees to be Cut Along the Alignment
5.3.5           Commercial Stalls and Sari-Sari Stores to be Affected
5.3.6          Public Infrastructures to be Affected
5.4.1           Entitlement Matrix
5.4.2a         Compensation Cost for Realignment Sections
5.4.2b          Compensation Cost for Additional R-O-W, Including Cut Sections
5.4.3           Summary of Fixed Assets, Improvements, and Compensation for the
SPAPs
5.4.4           Summary of Improvements and Compensation for the MPAPs
5.4.5          Estimated Resettlement Cost
5.6.1          Estimated Administrative and Contingency Costs



LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1.1     Layout Plan of the La Castellan-Canlaon Road Section
Figure 1.2     Map of Mount Kanla-on National Park
Figure 2.1     Typical Roadway Design for Ffat Sections
Figure 2.2     Typical Roadway Design for Flat Sections at Built-Up Areas
Figure 5.1     Map of the Proposed Urban Expansion in Brgy. Robles
Figure 5.2     Map of the Proposed Urban Expansion in Brgy. Cabacungan
Figure 5.3     RAP Implementation Schedule



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A & D                 Alienable & Disposable
AO                    Administrative Order
BIR                   Bureau of Internal Revenue
CCMP                  Brgys. Camandag, Cabacungan, Mahagnoy, and Puso
CLUP                  Comprehensive Land UJse Plan
DENR                  Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DEOs                  District Engineering Offices
DPWH                  Department of Public Works and Highways
DPWH-EIAPO            Department of Public Works and Highways-Environmental Impact
Assessment Project Office
EDT                   Engineering Design Team
EO                    Executive Order
IBRD                  International Bank for Rural Development
ILA                   Independent Land Appraiser
LARR                  Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation
LGUs                  Local Government Units
MCNP5                 Upland barangays located inside the MKNP namely, Masulog, Biak
na Bato, Cabagna-an, Mansalanao, and Sag-ang
MKNP                  Mount Kanla-on National Park
MPAPs                 Marginally Project Affected Persons
MPDO                  Municipal Planning and Development Officer
NATALA                Brgys. Nato, Talaptap, and Lalagsan
NIPAS                 National Integrated Protected Areas System
NRIMP                 National Road Improvement and Management Plan
PAFs                  Project Affected Families
PAMB                  Protected Area Management Board
PAPs                  Project Affected Persons
PASu                  Protected Area Superintendent
PCMs                  Public Consultation Meetings
RAP                   Resettlement Action Plan
RIC                   RAP Implementation Committee
RO                    Regional Office
ROW                   Right-Of-Way
SPAPs                 Severely Project Affected Persons



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Project Description
The La Castellana-Canlaon City road section has a total length of 23.52 kilometers. It
starts at around 100 meters from the Junction of the La Castellana-La Carlota road in
Barangay Robles (Sta. 65+610.064), Municipality of La Castellana and ends at the approach
of the Masulog Bridge (=Sta. 89+138). It traverses seven (7) barangays of La Castellana,
three (3) of which are inside the Mount Kanlaon National Park (MKNP). These are
Barangays Robles, Sag-ang, Camandag, Mansalanao, Cabagna-an, Biak-na-Bato, and
Masulog.
There are four (4) proposed realignment sections for the La Castellana-Canlaon City road
section. Each of these includes one (1) bridge. These realignment sections include the
Taborda Bridge, Antulan Bridge, Induruyan Bridge, and Calapnagan Bridge.
The existing roadway is predominantly surfaced with gravel, which is in fair to bad condition.
Its width varies from 5 m to 9 m, and has no shoulders nor side ditches on both sides. There
are six (6) existing bridge structures being proposed for reconstruction and two (2) new
bridges to replace existing culverts. In addition, a total of 13 box culverts and various
drainage facilities along the stretch of the road are also provided.
Rationale and Objectives
The DPWH Resettlement Policy was formulated to provide the guidelines that will govern
the implementation of road projects under the World Bank-assisted First National Roads
Improvement and Management Program (NRIMP). Aside from effectively managing,
financing, and completing the national road network into an all-weather standard, the
Program's main thrust is to ensure that pre-operating sustainable conditions are maintained
The main objectives for the preparation of the RAP are:
(i)   So that adverse social and physical impacts are avoided, minimized, and or
mitigated;
(ii)  That everybody, particularly the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) will benefit
from the Project;
(iii)  PAPs are provided with sufficient compensation and assistance for lost assets
which will assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-project
standard of living; and



(iv)  Project stakeholders (which include PAPs) are consulted regarding the
Project's design, implementation, and operation.
Methodology
The procedures undertaken in preparing the RAP are in agreement with the Resettlement
Policy. These are the:
(i)   Orientation of Regional and District Personnel;
(ii)  Preliminary site investigation
(iii)  Consultation meetings with concerned LGUs;
(iv)  Barangay level Public Consultation Meetings (PCMs)
(v)   Tagging of project affected structures
(vi)  Conduct of 100% tree inventory
(vii)  Conduct of social impact and land acquisition assessment; and
(viii) Data processing and analysis.
Public Consultation Meetings
Nine (9) barangay level PCMs were conducted within the period from 09 to 15 January
2001. During each PCM, a brief description of the project, followed by the basic principles
of the Resettlement Policy was presented to the stakeholders. In summary these are:
(ix)  The La Castellan-Canla-on City Road section is a project of the DPWH under
the World Bank-assisted National Roads Improvement and Management
Program (NRIMP)
(x)   The Resettlement Policy is initially applicable only to road projects under the
NRIMP
(xi)  The RAP would include.the identification of adverse environmental and social
impacts and the recommendation of corresponding mitigating, the census and
socio-economic survey of PAPs, and the determination of compensation and
entitlements to the PAPs.



(xii)  The identification of project-affected structures was still preliminary until the
detailed engineering design is completed;
(xiii) The standard width of the road, following IBRD guidelines, is 12.7 meters,
(xiv) There would be a Cut-Off Date for identifying affected structures, after
which any additional or new construction will not be entitled to any
compensation;
(xv)  Structures with stickers bearing the tag number and the letter "S" refer to
structures that would be severely affected, whereas those with the letter "M"
would refer to structures with marginal disturbance;
(xvi)  For fixed assets that would be demolished, PAPs will be compensated 100%
prior to demolition;
(xvii) PAPs must vacate their properties seven (7) days after full payment is
received whether the project will be immediately implemented or not;
(xviii) Compensation for land would be based on the fair market value set by an
Independent Land Appraiser (ILA);
(xix) For fixed assets, compensation would be based on replacement cost;
(xx)  That a RAP Implementation Committee (RIC) will be formed, with
representation from the PAPs;
(xxi) That grievances arising from any aspect of the Project (except land valuation)
can be ventilated through the RIC
Main issues raised during the PCMs include:
(i)   They strongly support the Project even though it will entail some form of
sacrifices on their part;
(ii)  That compensation be based on the actual dimension and type of materials
that the structures are made of, instead of a flat rate;
(iii)  The seven (7) days given to the PAPs to vacate their properties after full
payment is not sufficient for building a new house, particularly for semi
concrete to concrete structures
(iv)  If the houses within the MKNP will also be compensated even if they don't
own the land;
liii



(v)   If there will be compensation for fruit trees to be cut, and crops to be damaged,
and what will be the basis for payment;
(vi)  If there will be a relocation site in case the PAPs need to transfer outside the
Park;
(vii)  If there will be a relocation site do the relocatees need to pay for the land;
(viii) If landowners could recover salvaged materials
Resettlement Action Plan
The municipal economy of La Castellana is agriculture-based with sugarcane as the primary
crop, followed by rice and corn, and then by bananas, vegetables, coffee, and coconut.
Farming is considered marginal although it is the primary occupation of the PAPs. This is
shown by the high percentage of the population that fall below the annual poverty threshold.
Aside from this, the survey showed that food expenses make up more than 70% of their total
household expenditures.
Based on the Municipality's CLUP, the following comprise its development concerns:
(i)   Boundary conflict with Negros Oriental
(ii)  Diminishing forest cover due to destructive farming activities such as the
slash and burn (kaingin) method
(iii)  Presence of titled lands and settlements site inside the MKNP
(iv)  Vulnerability of the integrity of MKNP due to human intrusion
(v)   Natural hazards to the community such as the presence of an active volcano
(Mt. Kanla-on) and flooding in the lowland areas such as Poblacion (Robles)
La Castellana consists of 13 barangays. These barangays were grouped into four (4) "sub-
municipal" units based on common attributes such as elevation, existing land use, extent of
urbanization, and location within the MKNP. These are the (i) "NATALA", which stands
for the barangays of Nato, Talaptap, and Lalagsan; (ii) "CCMP", consisting of Camandag,
Cabacungan, Mangbanoy, and Puso; (iii) "MCNP5", which includes the upland barangays
that are located inside the MKNP, namely Masulog, Biak-na-Bato, Cabagna-an, Mansalanao,
and Sag-ang and (iv) ROBLES, the seat of governance in the Municipality.
iv



La Castellana has only one urban center----Brgy. Robles. In its land use plan, it is regarded
as the service center of Brgys. Sag-ang, Camandag, Nato, Lalagsan, Talaptap, and
Mansalanao. Brgy. Cabacungan is the secondary growth center of the Municipality. It is
envisioned as the service center of Brgys. Manghanoy, Puso, Biak-na-Bato, Masulog, and
Cabagna-an.
The only financing institution in the municipality is the United Coconut Planter's Bank,
which is formerly the Rural Bank of La Castellana.
The PAPs
Based on the LAA, a total of 240,373.64 m2 or 24.04 hectares of land need to be acquired.
Of these, 4.37 ha would be for the realignment section and 19.67 ha for additional Right-of-
Way at cut sections. Please note that each of these land takes will NOT exceed 20% of the
landowner's total lot area.
In terms of improvements, there are a total of 150 severely affected families and 11 public
infrastructure facilities (waiting sheds, barangay hall, and water pipes). There are 144
persons and families and two (2) public infrastructure facilities (waiting shed and school
fence) that will be marginally affected. For ease of discussion, PAPs who will be severely
affected will be referred to in this report as SPAPs; those who will just be marginally
affected, MPAPs
The PAPs have an average household size of 1 to 4. Majority of the respondent PAPs did not
finish elementary education. More than 70% of the interviewed SPAPs fall below the annual
poverty threshold for Region 6. Other indicators of standard of living such as availability of
water supply and sanitation facility further confirm that majority of the PAPs are poor.
In terms of project awareness, the survey showed that more than 90% of the PAPs interviwed
are aware of the proposed Project. Their main source of information was from the DPWH
DEO and the Project Team during the PCMs conducted.
Compensation and Entitlements
The following table shows a summary of the compensation and entitlement costs for the
SPAPs and MPAPs.
v



Summary Table Showing Total Compensation and Entitlement Cost
Barangay      No. of    Improvement     No, of   Improvement       Land        Refo Program,     TOTAL COST
SPAPs   Cost (Structures,  MPAPs       Cost       Acquisition    Replacement of
Trees, Income)             (Structures,     Cost       Public Infra, and
Trees, Income)                  Allowances
Masulog         28     P1,344,950.50      23     P 64,610.00                        75,000.00     P1,484,560.50
Biak-na-Bato    40      2,788,285.00      30       59,940.00             -                 -       2,848,225.00
Cabagna-an      53      3,497,458.00      44      194,233.00   P 787,083.05        350,000.00      4,828,774.05
Mansalanao      12        375,151.00      27      118,100.00   4,286,684.00        600,000.00      5,508,056.00
Camandag         7        246,780.00       8       44,560.00   1,070,668.35        150,000.00      1,540,801.00
Sag-ang          9        685,163.00      12       60,020.00             -                 -        745,183.00
Robles           1          6,900.00       -              -      874,776.40         75,000.00       956,676.40
(L S.)*                                                                            250,000.00       250,000.00
Water Line                                                                         50,000.00         50,000.00
Transitional                                                                       563,450.00       563,450.00
& Subsistence
Allowances
Transport.                                                                          30,000.00        30,000.00
Allowance
Extemal                                                                                              $2,000.00
Monitoring
Sub-Total      150     P8,944,687.50     144     P541,463.00   7,019,211.80     P2,143,450.00   P18,648,812.30
I               I                                      1                        $2,000.00
Fee of Independent Land Appraiser (ILA)                                                              37,500.00
TOTAL                                                                                           P18,686,312.30
Management Cost, 6%                                                                                1,121,178.74
Price contingencies, 15%                                                                           2,802,946.84
GRAND TOTAL        P22,610,437.88
$2,000.00
*Note:    Budget for reforestation program can be divided among the PAPs, based on the recommendation of the MKNP-
PAMB
Possible Relocation Sites
One of the development concerns of the LGU of La Castellana is to reduce the
population growth in the barangays located within the MKNP. This is aimed to
reduce the vulnerability of the MKNP to further degradation due to human intrusion.
Two possible- relocation sites are proposed in the Shelter Plan of La Castellana as
presented in its, Comprehensive Land Use Plan. These are the referred to as the Urban
Expansion Areas at Brgys. Robles and Cabacungan, both of which are located outside the
MKNP. However, before this plan materializes, the conversion of these lands from
agricultural to residential/built-up areas would require the approval of the Department of
Agrarian Reform (DAR). The conversion process normally takes time, and may cause
unnecessary delays in the implementation of the Project. Thus other options were
considered.
vi



In a recent meeting with Mayor Enrico R. Elumba of La Castellana, he informed the DPWH-
EIAPO, the Consultant, and key representatives of the Negros Occidental 2nd Engineering
District that there are other relocation sites, aside from those at Brgys. Cabacungan and
Robles, which are readily available to the SPAPs who would be displaced. In fact, these can
be found in each project-affected barangays, namely Brgy. Masulog, Biak-na-Bato, Cabagna-
an, Mansalanao, Sag-ang, and Camandag.. These areas, according to Mayor Elumba will be
developed by the Municipality, and that water supply and electricity will be made available
to the relocating PAFs.  In fact, Barangay Resolutions from all affected barangays
committing the provision of relocation sites, including electrification and development of
water system in the said sites, were passed by each concerned Barangay Council (Please
refer to Appendix E3 for a copy of the said Barangay Resolutions). These relocation sites
are located at the center of these barangays, and so are readily accessible to the relocating
PAFs. As such, no relocation cost is deemed necessary since the PAFs will be accorded the
proper compensation for the structures, aside from the materials that can be salvaged from
their existing structures, plus transportation assistance if necessary, that will enable them to
rebuild their houses at the relocation site (Please see Appendix E4 Photographs of the
relocation sites).
RAP Implementation
RAP Implementation is expected to be between May to December 2002. The budget for
RAP Implementation is estimated at P1,099,340.00.
vii



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Castcllana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 1.            PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1   Location and Condition of Existing Roadway
The La Castellana-Canlaon City road section has a total length of 23.52 kilometers. It starts at
around 100 meters from the Junction of the La Castellana-La Carlota road in Barangay Robles,
Municipality of La Castellana. It begins at Km 65+777 (based on kilometer post reading), or Sta.
65+610.064 (based on actual topographic survey) and heads in an easterly direction towards the
foot of Mt. Kanlaon. From Brgy. Robles, it traverses six (6) more barangays namely, Camandag,
Sag-ang, Mansalanao, Cabagna-an, Biak-Na-Bato, and Masulog. The road section terminates at
the approach of the Masulog Bridge (-Sta. 89+138), which marks the administrative and political
boundary between La Castellanai Negros Occidental and Canlaon City, Negros Oriental (Please
see Fig. 1.1).
The existing roadway is predominantly surfaced with gravel, which is in fair to bad condition. Its
width varies from 5 m to 9 m, and has no shoulders nor side ditches on both sides. A stretch of
PCC pavement in good condition can be observed towards the project end, which is around 100 m
from the first approach of the Masulog Bridge.
There are six (6) existing bridge structures being proposed for reconstruction and two (2) new
bridges to replace existing culverts. In addition, a total of 13 box culverts and various drainage
facilities along the stretch of the road are also provided.
1.2   Realignment Sections and Construction limits
There are four proposed realignment sections for the La Castellana-Canlaon City road section.
Each of these includes one (1) bridge. Among the four, two (2) are relatively more extensive than
the others are. These realignment sections include the Taborda Bridge, and Calapnagan Bridge.
The other two, the Antulan and Induruyan Bridge sites would only require minor realignments.
The beginning of the road section was realigned from the existing junction at Brgy. Robles,
kilometer post 65+765 to the southwest at 65+777 mainly to minimize adverse effects on the
railroads.  These-railroads or rail tracks are used for transporting harvested sugarcane to the
hauling areas--prior to milling. Results of hydraulic studies strongly indicate the need to raise the
existing Tab a Bnidge by as much as three (3) meters. This would entail a corresponding raise
in the alignm6fitirin the form of an embankment. However, putting an embankment would bury
the  railroads  that  either  cross  or  are  adjacent  to  the  existing  roadway.
1-1



lKABANKA LAN - BASAY f sAN ENRIQUE - VALLEHHEMO ROAD  UZN i 
I      ~~~~LA CASTELAA - CAAON SECTX)N           LUZD         J
l ~~~~~~STA. 0610.064. 
N  1.142.801.386  E = 501.879.022
I~~~           ~  ~ ~~~~~~~ ST /   APP. sLk sr.oo SW
~~1               ft~~t
/        ~~~~~VISAYAB
{ Xaf~~~~/
?Tsr WPP. s?A  7+037.100  0
c KEYMAP
"IT'  10  acM"
/+ >4CTO        NTAGGE EC          1 |
. . = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA CASTELLAHA - CALC SECTiO
A". STA.T           B9R57.5W
XE K^TRA*tEeRs TW^TL      ;        ~~CONRACT       ¢ PACAG CWR-.
Hokrao wunD @  T    E G         CoWMLAYOU  ' MAOCCIDMTl)  LAYOUT PUN. LAYWr.MAP
O~0 EIOGUS  ~      J.1IU~A KD9~LT.  ~    ~    A      AND KEY MAP
1 -2



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Aside from intersecting railroads, another problem with the existing road is that if the
alignment of the Taborda Bridge were followed, the present orientation of the creek would
just scour the embankment. A better alternative is thus to realign the roadway to avoid these
predicaments.
The realignment has an approximate length of 430 meters.  Aside from the technical
specifications, another advantage of this realignment section is that it saved a number of
households from being displaced had the existing roadway been followed. No human
settlements will be affected by the new alignment since it would pass through a sugarcane
plantation.
The alignment going to Calapnagan Bridge in Brgy. Cabagnaan can be described as a
hairpin-type of curve, with a radius of 10 only. To conform to the IBRD standards, this
portion is being proposed for realignment, this time using a radius of 40. The bridge will also
be replaced accordingly.
The realignment at Antulan Bridge is about 200 meters from Sta. 66+500. The shift in the
alignment would be for an average of 20 meters from the centerline of the existing bridge
towards the south. At the Induruyan Bridge site, realignment would be from Sta. 67+000 to
Sta. 67+360, or a total of 360 meters. The centerline would be shifted at an average of 30 m to
the north. Both realignment sections are within Brgy. Robles.
13     The Mount Kanla-on National Park
It is important to note here that around 11 kilometers, or almost 50% of the entire road section
is located within the Mount Kanla-on National Park (MKNP). The MKNP is a proclaimed
National Park by virtue of Proclamation No. 721 in 08 August 1934, and eventually became
one of the priority areas for protection under the National Integrated Protected Areas System
(NIPAS) in the 90s.
La Castellana is only one of the two municipalities and four cities where the MKNP is located.
The other municipality is Murcia, and the four cities consist of La Carlota, Bago, San Carlos
City, and Canla-on of Negros Oriental (Please see Fig. 1.2). There are 14 barangays situated
within the Park. Based on the CLUP of La Castellana, these barangays have a total population
of 56,433, and that the most populated settlements are found in La Castellana and Canla-on
City.
A "national park" is defined in R. A. 7586 or the National Integrated Protected Areas System
(NIPAS) Act as:
1-3



Ir               L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1 l                    D                  t  ,  .-  S c   i;             i -  .  .   480  -
;~~~~~~~~~~ -                                   .*  s  - ,R.J,  ,7  . 
C;'l ~   L' OF  , C A Ri L.'O ..A t                               'I,- 0'1 ;.  -.9_ ,  ,  0,  i  R I e Rq T A L :'
_  ,  ,   i 'a.,; "                 . , *  *T, .  *Cn   *A  *,*       .
;~~~~~~ I                              .            .1  ''  ..'c.Sur|' -''~IS&IkIO0I-  " P ' VI C   -O''P
IDAM -  -   ' o mbcird;/L>;sua"Bu.  'WAA J- _-       -'
PAJ'         -  C.! - 'I ~MrvASA  .C  -
*          POE   CA  '.  *   O~~~~~~~CDtiwK;O
wat  CABIJ.C, .        ' LJCCIL<                        >xA                       U  NC
II~~ 1MP  .9, A N   U?    .                         PA*DI-LLA.
~~14UN1,CIPMUACIPLITTYE
MNUtNICIALITY OF riAELC
MUZUCIPALITY OP LA CASTSLLANA                                        ecvn*aanraAnCA~A
.~    POIC Q1ECO Ocwr                       Fig 1.2         .. A1 S  W
:ffice ofl&eMumc. t flaruang  IvY . C,QJ' T  SHoWING  MOUT X LA-O rI^ oNat ;A:
crh -I .c         -  I       _  _    , .  .       .
E - , ALAQ 51A                                                    PUr; .  : :O
\   ,  _  tilclCN  SPt^nnD~~tiGiAtOY 
0         .4 1 "i                  .  .  . Q d  V,,., .4-  -< ,R , ,
*MUNICIP LITY 0ERBs 
'~~~~~~~~~~ 
PROVICEOF NIROS OCIDN4                Fi. 1.2 BR A S E M A, P
Cffi" of the unuil Naanmg & rw Ckfi,ab  sHOxNO MOUNT XAMAOWNTIONAI PAR
ck fh i a:  I, .1 Wk Mf% nr



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
"a forest reservation essentially of natural wilderness
character which has been withdrawn from settlement,
occupancy, or any form of exploitation except in conformity
with approved management plan and set aside as such
exclusively to conserve the area or preserve the scenery, the
natural and prehistoric objects, wild animals and plants
therein and to provide enjoyment of these features in such
areas".
In the case of the MKNP, this seems to be more like a goal for the PAMB and the LGU of La
Castellana to achieve, rather than a definition of what it really is. For example, municipal
records show that of the Park's total land area, only 8,697 are estimated to be still covered by
forest. Forty one percent or 1,328 hectares are reportedly degraded or encroached upon by
settlers who are engaged in illegal logging activities and slash-and-bum methods of farming
(kaingin). Barren open areas and grasslands occupy 23% or 745 hectares, and approximately
487 hectares are being utilized as built-up areas. Some of the major problems afflicting the
Park, as stated in La Castellana's CLUP consist of:
(i)    Rapid forest denudation due to illegal logging and slash-and-bum farming;
(ii)   Presence of settlers, barangay sites, school buildings, and national road;
(iii)  Presence of titled lands;
(iv)   Brisk population growths in barangays with areas inside the Park; and
(v)    Lack of livelihood opportunities to lessen dependence on extractive activities
inside the Park.
The Municipal Officials of La Castellana considers this a major concern, so with the help of
the DENR and the provincial government of Negros Occidental, various programs are being
planned to address these problems. One of this is its shelter program, which would provide
socialized housing projects to its constituents. One of the target beneficiaries are those to be
displaced fromrhe danger zone of the MKNP. On top priority are the underprivileged, or
those whose incomes are below the poverty threshold level. Please refer to Section 55 for a
more detailed discussion on possible relocation sites.
1-5



San Ennque-Vallehernoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
1.4   Commitment of DPWH to Safeguard the MKNP'S Environmental
and Social Concerns
The DPWH submitted to the Resource Management Committee (RMC) of the MKNP
Protected Area Management Board (PAMB) a Commitment Paper, which states the
Department's pledge to implement the following mitigating measures:
(i)   Three (3) monitoring stations (guardhouses) will be set up. These will be
strategically located at the entrance, exist, and at the junction of M. Padilla.
The main purpose of these stations is to check/prevent in-migration to the
Park;
(ii)   To reduce displacement of families, some of the PAFs will just be allowed to
move their structures away from the roadway;
(iii)  The DPWH will provide fair compensation and entitlements to the PAFs;
(iv)  The replacement plan of 50 seedlings for every premium specie and five (5)
for every ordinary specie cut will be adhered to;
(v)   A Multi-partite Monitoring Team (MMT) will be established three (3) months
prior to the start of the Project. The MKNP Protected Area Superintendent
(PASu) shall be a member of the MMT, and may possibly lead the Team
inside the Park;
(vi)  The DPWH will see to it that all excess materials/spoils will be disposed
properly and outside the Park. It is important to note that minimal spoils are
expected since cuttings will be utilized as fill or embankment materials;
(vii)  All excavations shall be limited within the road R-O-W and there will be no
quarrying inside the Park;
(viii)  There shall be no operations during nighttime. Construction works within the
Park will be limited from 9:00 a. m. to 4:00 p. m. only;
(ix)  The DPWH will conduct orientation workshops to Contractors to inform them
of the responsibilities related to environmental protection and social concerns
of the Project, in particular the application of the conditions set in the ECC and
the Commitment Paper;
(x)    Monthly progress reports by the Contractors, describing their activities inside
the Park shall be provided to the RMC and the PAMB.
1-6



San Enfique-Valilehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
(xi) . There will be continuing consultation meetings with the concerned NGOs and
LGUs regarding various activities inside the Park such as, cutting of trees,
displacement of families, tree planting, and other pertinent activities.
1-7



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 2             RATIONAL AND OBJECTIVES
2.1   The DPWH LARR Policy
The DPWH Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation (LARR) Policy or simply
called the Resettlement Policy was formulated to provide the guidelines that will govern
the implementation of road projects under the National Roads Improvement and
Management Program (NRIMP). Aside from effectively managing, financing, and
completing the national road network into an all-weather standard, the Program's main
thrust is to ensure that pre-operating sustainable conditions are maintained. This simply
means that the Department must take into full consideration the environmental and social
concerns associated with infrastructure development.  Specifically these concerns
include: (i) involuntary resettlement; (ii) public consultation and participation; and
(iii) protection of marginalized and vulnerable groups.
In addressing such concerns, the Department ensures that the following objectives are
met from the pre-feasibility up to the implementation stage of NRIMP projects:
(i)   Adverse social and physical impacts are avoided, minimized, and or
mitigated;
(ii)  Everybody, including Project Affected Persons will benefit from the
Project;
(iii)  PAPs are provided with sufficient compensation and assistance for lost
assets which will assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-
project standard of living; and
(iv)  Project stakeholders (which include PAPs) are consulted regarding the
project's design, implementation, and operation.
The Resettlement Policy defines any person, or persons, household, a firm, or a private or
public institution that will be adversely affected, whether temporarily or permanently by
the project, as Project Affected Persons (PAPs). Project Affected Families (PAFs), on
the other hand pertains to PAPs residing under one roof and operating as a single
economic unit. The Policy also renders a deeper meaning to "Resettlement" to mean "all
measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse social impacts of a project on the PAPs,
including compensation and relocation as needed". To ensure that the above-mentioned
objectives are met, Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) are prepared for all road projects
undertaken by the DPWH under the NRIMP.
2-1



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
2.2    Basic Principles of the RAP
The following guidelines, as prescribed in the Resettlement Policy, served as the basic
principles behind the preparation of this RAP.
2.2.1  Locational Planning and Design
Without sacrificing the integrity of engineering designs, acquisition of land and other
assets and displacement of people was minimized by developing highway designs that
will avoid extensive damages to human settlements. One example of these is the use of
stone masonry retaining walls at thickly populated flat sections. That is, instead of
utilizing standard designs for flat areas that would entail a construction limit of about
17.7 meters (6.7 m traveled way, 2 x 1.5 meters shoulders, 2 x 3 meters embankment
slope, and an allowance of 2 x 1 meter each direction), the Highway Designer came up
with a different design that would only require 14.7 to 15 meters construction limit.
Please refer to Figures 2.1 and 2.2 for an illustration of the typical roadway sections for
flat, and flat with build up-areas, respectively.
CONSTRUCTCW UWT
1000        1500                 1500        f000
_                                                 SEE DUAL 'A'
_=ESlCR AX>D LeVTL
llrEM 301 - BarUMNS PRIME CAT
_  f IIM t - 9tMWiS CONEM SUFA CUS
' MV 202 - CROSHED ACORATE BM CCURSE 0-whw)
ffI  200 - AORMEATE 9-BBASE COtSE (t-WIS)
COMIPACTED FIIL
FLATSECTION
TYPE - i   A      1.W
Fig. 2.1  Typical design for flat sections
2-2



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
CONSTRUCT1ON UMNI
IOD70   t500       67 )D       SO   O
___~~~~~~~~RV           ._ WAYw__
StE DICH                  COMPACTED FtU
EXlSTING GROIDO LVE.
IlTEM 301 -ITMINOUS P-ME COT
_ TEM 310 - BfliittMOUS CONCRETE SURFACE COURSE
ITEM 202 - CRUSHED MCGROTE aAS COUR (t-rWI)
ITEM 200 - AWRECATE SUBSASE COURSE (trles)
wPE 2 FLAT SECTION (BUILT-UP MEAS)
TYPE -    L 
Fig. 2.2 Typical design for flat sections at built-up areas
2.2.2 Cut-Off Date for Census
During the conduct of barangay-level Public Consultation Meetings (PCMs), the concept
of the Cut-Off Date for identifying eligibility of PAPs for compensation was emphasized
to the participants. It was clearly explained that the Cut-Off Date would be the last day
of the census survey, and that any structure that will be built after the said date would not
be qualified for payment. The PAPs were informed that they would be photographed in
front of their houses and improvements; complete with tag numbers that match the
numbers indicated on the stickers posted on the wall of their houses. They were also
advised not to make any renovations nor improvements on the tagged structures as the
payment would be based on what would be seen in the photographs and recorded in the
survey instrument, and not on any other improvement.
2.2.3  Compensation Scheme
Compensation schemes for land and fixed assets are provided for in the LARR Policy
through a combination of World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30, and the Philippine
Government's existing applicable laws, Executive Orders, Administrative Orders, and
Department Orders. Impact on land and fixed assets is of two types namely, severe and
marginal.
2-3



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Severely affected lands are those wherein the land take would be greater than 20% of the
total land area. If the R-O-W requirement was less than 20%, but the remaining land
would not be economically viable anymore, the impact would still be classified as severe.
If the land take is less than 20% of the total area or the remaining land outside the
required R-O-W would still be economically viable, then the effect is referred to as
marginal. In the same manner, if an entire structure or fixed asset will be damaged or
even if it's not the entirety but the remaining structure becomes not viable for continued
use, the impact is also considered severe. On the other hand, structures that would be
affected but with remaining portion still viable for continued use are considered
marginally affected.
PAPs with severely affected land and fixed assets are entitled to full compensation in
cash for the entire property. For marginal cases, compensation would be determined by
the amount equivalent to the partial loss of assets, be it in form of land or structures. This
would also be paid in cash.
Details on the schedule of payment for severely and marginally affected land and fixed
assets, presented in form of a compensation matrix is provided in this report as Appendix
A.
2.2.4 Modes of Compensation
In accordance with the LARR Policy, the modes of compensation for severely and
marginally affected PAPs would be as follows:
(i)    Payment to losses equivalent to the amount of materials and labor for re-
constructing a similar structure for houses and other fixed structures with
NO deductions for salvaged materials;
(ii)   Compensation based on replacement cost (e.g., cost of houses and other
related structures based on current market prices of materials and labor if
the same were reconstructed) for the loss of fixed assets;
(iii)  "Land for land" type of compensation, wherein the replacement of the
affected land would be by another land of equivalent productive value at a
location acceptable to the PAP. If land is not available, cash representing
the value of the land would be paid to the PAP;
(iv)  Disturbance compensation to lessees of agricultural land affected by the
Project, which is equivalent to five (5) times the average gross harvest
during the last five (5) years.
24



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Other forms of resettlement assistance to be provided by the DPWH to eligible PAPs are
also found in Appendix A.
2.2.5  Rejection of Government Offer
In the event the PAP rejects the compensation package offered by the DPWH, the
Department can initiate expropriation proceedings in accordance with Administrative
Order No. 50 (A. 0. 50). While the case is being tried in court, DPWH can proceed with
the construction works, provided that a deposit equivalent to the whole amount being
offered by the DPWH for the value of land, and 100% of the value of structures is
deposited in an escrow.
Other details on the compensation scheme to be adopted, such as additional resettlement
assistance that DPWH must provide eligible PAPs are also included in Appendix A.
2.2.6 Formation of a RAP Implementation Committee
For successful implementation of the RAP, a body consisting of the key stakeholders of
the Project is necessary. A RAP Implementation Committee will be set up during the
project implementation stage.  For this Project, the Negros Occidental 2nd District
Engineering Office will be the principal and regular representative of the DPWH in the
RIC to be formed. Close coordination between the RIC, Region 6, and the DPWH
Central Office will be ensured.
In accordance with the LARR Policy the RIC will have the following tasks:
(v)   Assist in the validation of PAPs, including their assets that will be affected
by the Project;
(vi)  Assist in implementing the RAP;
(vii)  Assist in public information  campaign, public participation  and
consultation;
(viii) Assist the DEO in the payment of compensation to PAPs;
(ix)  Receive complains and grievances from PAPs and other stakeholders and
act on them accordingly;
(x)   Maintain record of all public meetings, complaints, and actions taken to
address complaints and grievances;
2-5



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
(xi)  Assist in the enforcement of laws/ordinances regarding encroachment into
*the project road corridor, in coordination with concerned government
authorities
2.2.7 Grievance Procedures
If there will be grievances arising from any aspect of the Project, these will be handled
through negotiations following the succeeding procedures:
(i)   PAPs may file their grievances to the RIC, who in turn must properly
document the complaint and act on it within 15 days upon receipt of the
said complaint (this does not include those cases wherein the grievance
pertains to the valuation of affected assets, since such cases should be
decided upon by proper courts);
(ii)  If no understanding or amicable solution is reached, or if the PAP do not
receive a response from the RIC within 15 days of registry, the
Complainant can appeal to the Office of the DPWH Regional Director
which should act on the complaint/grievance within 15 days from the day
of its filing;
(iii)  If the PAP is not satisfied with the Office of the DPWH Regional Director
Office's decision, he can submit the said complaint to a court of law
The PAPs shall be exempted from all administrative and legal fees incurred in pursuant to
the grievance redress procedures.
2-6



San Enfique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 3.             METHODOLOGY
The procedures undertaken in preparing the RAP are in agreement with the LARR Policy and
are briefly described in this chapter. These are: (i) orientation of Regional and District
Personnel; (ii) preliminary site investigation (iii) consultation meeting with concerned LGUs;
(iv) barangay level public consultation meetings; (v) tagging of project affected structures;
(vi) conduct of social impact and land acquisition assessment; and (vii) data processing and
analysis.
3.1    Orientation of Regional and District Engineering Offices (DEOs)
Orientation of the Regional and District Engineering Offices was held on 12 December 2001
at the DPWH Region VI Office at Iloilo City. The meeting was presided by Ms. Olive
Baguio of the EIAPO. Participants include representatives from the Negros Occidental 2nd
and 3rd District Engineering Office, and Region VI.
Engr. Olive Baguio of the DPWH-EIAPO, and  Participants to the Orientation Meeting at the
Engr. Claro Cesario Moscoso, Chief of the  DPWH Region 6 Conference Room
Planning & Design Division, DPWH Region 6
During the orientation it was also learned the prevailing Right-of-Way is set at 20 meters
for both the La Castellana-Canlaon City Road and the Hinobaan-Basay Road, although
some portions in La Castellana, particularly those inside the Mt. Kanlaon National Park
(MKNP) are limited to a 15-meter R-O-W.
3-1



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
3.2   Preliminary Site Investigation
Preliminary site investigation along the La Castellana-Canlaon City Road Section was
conducted on 13 December 2000. The Consultant made several stops at sections that
were deemed too constricted. It was noted that the existing traveled way measured an
average of eight (8) to nine (9) meters only with no shoulders and no side ditches.
Encroachment into the R-O-W was evident from the way the fences, and in most cases,
sari-sari stores and even houses are built immediately adjacent to the traveled way.
Rk- _
Taken at Sito Old Fabnca, Brgy. Cabagna-an  Taken at Brgy. Mansalanao
The Consultant also conducted brief, informal interviews with the local people to identify
the different barangays that will be traversed by the road project.
33    Consultation Meeting with LGUs
In preparation for the consultation meetings with the concerned LGUs, the Consultant
wrote a letter to the Mayor of La Castellana, Mr. Enrico R. Elumba, requesting the
attendance of concerned barangay captains at the Municipal Hall in 09 January 2001. In
08 January 2001, the Consultant briefed Mayor Elumba on the purpose and objectives of
the meeting scheduled with his constituent barangay officials.
In 09 January 2001 the consultation meeting took place at the Office of Mayor Elumba at
9:00 a. m. Except for Brgy. Camandag, all the Barangay Captains of concerned
barangays---Robles, Camandag, Mansalanao, Cabagna-an, Biak-na-Bato, and Masulog
attended the consultation meeting. The Municipal Engineer, Assessor, and representative
of the Municipal Planning and Development Officer (MPDO) of La Castellana upon the
request of the Consultant also attended the meeting.
3-2



San Enique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Barangay Captains of Robles, Mansalanao, Biak-  Mayor Elumba, Mrs. Galeno, Municipal
na-Bato, Masulog, and Cabagna-an          Assessor, Engr. Maglaque, Municipal Engineer,
and the members of the Project Team checking
boundaries of land on the Cadastral Map of La
Castellana
Mayor Elumba started the meeting with a welcoming remark, and introduced his
municipal and barangay officials.  The Consultant explained the National Roads
Improvement and Management Program (NRIMP) under which the road under study will
be implemented. Among the topics included are the: (i) definition of severe and marginal
impacts; (ii) conduct of PCMs at each barangay; (iii) importance of tagging the structures
to be affected using pre-numbered stickers; (iv) the need to photograph the PAPs,
together with the structures and improvements to be affected; and (v) conduct of census
and socio-economic survey of PAPs. The Consultant then discussed with each barangay
captain the target schedule for the barangay PCMs. The meeting adjourned at 11:30 a. m.
3.4   Training of Enumerators from the DEOs
The Consultant and the EIAPO agreed to utilize the concerned District Engineering
personnel as enumerators since they are the principal and regular representative of
DPWH in the RAP Implementation Committee (RIC) to be set up. This did not only
familiarize the DEO key staff and representatives with the important concepts of the
Resettlement Policy but also gave them a chance to have a hands-on experience in
dealing with the PAPs. In this manner, succeeding disclosures with them would be much
easier since a considerable level of confidence and trust would have been established.
3-3



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castcllana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
I.., 9                                             .     '
Training of the representatives from the Negros Occidental 2"' District Engineering Office. Second
from right is Engr. Lea Delfinado, Chief of Planning Section
During the training they were informed that data gathering for the RAP would consist of
three main tasks namely, (i) assistance in tagging; (ii) cost estimating and drawing of
sketches; and (iii) survey of PAPs. They were given sufficient instruction of how to carry
out the assignments given to them. For example, tagging required the setting out of
construction limits using meter tapes to determine the project-affected structures. Cost
estimates for structures were to be prepared by computing the corresponding bill of
materials, plus labor (including demolition and construction). Sketches of affected
structures were to be prepared usinrg the plan and profile provided by the EDT as
reference. Estimated values were to be based on actual account of the structures,
computed at current replacement cost. Survey of PAPs was to be carried out using the
PAPs' native tongue, i.e., Ilongo. During the actual LAA and SIA, the group was divided
into three, according to the above-mentioned tasks.
3.5    Barangay Level Public Consultation Meetings
All PCMs commenced with an opening prayer. This was followed by a brief description
of the Project, and the purpose of the PCM. To familiarize the target PAPs with the RAP
preparation process, the Consultant discussed in detail the activities that will be
undertaken, from tagging to the conduct of socioeconomic survey. Examples of stickers
to be used for tagging were also shown. The Consultant even asked for PAP volunteers
in demonstrating how they will be photographed in front of their houses carrying a board
showing the tag number of the affected structure.
34



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
PCM at Brgy. Cabagna-an
PCM at Brgy. Biak-na-Bato
During the Open Forum, the participants were encouraged to ask questions about the
RAP, express their apprehensions and concerns regarding the proposed Project, and raise
other relevant issues. All the PCMs were properly documented by means of attendance
sheets, photographs, and cassette tape recordings of each open forum (A copy of the
Attendance Sheets and Proceedings of the PCMs are found in Appendix B).
In terms of venue, PCMs were held at barangay halls, elementary schools/day care
centers, and even along the roadway. Details on the results of the PCMs are presented in
the next chapter.
3.6   Tagging of Project Affected Structures and Taking of Photographs
Tagging was carried out after each barangay consultation meeting to make sure that the
PAPs are well informed of the purpose of the stickers. The Tag Team was headed by an
authorized representative of the Engineering Design Team (EDT). He was assisted by
one of the trained DEO staff. It is important to note at this point that the engineering
plans that would specify the final construction limit were not yet available when tagging
was undertaken. Such being the case, the Consultant decided to take the maximum
number of PAPs that would probably be affected, by following the preliminary
construction limits that were assigned by the EDT.
Tagging of affected structures and improvements commenced in 09 Jan 2001 and
completed in 18 Jan 2001. Tagging of public infrastructure facilities was undertaken in
26 Jan 2001. Tagging was followed by the taking of photographs of the PAPs. The
PCMs were very effective as indicated by the eagerness of the PAPs to have their
photographs taken, complete with the tag board, which they carried willingly.
3-5



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
SPAP at Brgy. Cabagna-an                  SPAP, also at Brgy. Cabagna-an. This shows
a typical san-san store at the project area
3.7   Census and Socioeconomic Survey
The conduct of LAA and SIA immediately followed the tagging process. The survey
instrument consists of seven (7) pages. Said instrument was pre-coded to facilitate
inputting and processing of information in the computer.
In accordance with the LARR Policy, census, covering general information on all the
PAPs such as demographic data and properties affected was undertaken, and
socioeconomic surveys were limited to only those who will be severely affected. To
cover 100% census regardless of the severity of impact, the first three (3) pages of the
instrument was designed to include basic data on the PAPs. For marginally affected
persons/families, only these first three (3) pages were used to obtain the necessary
information. For the severely affected, the entire seven (7) pages of the instrument were
administered. Census and socioeconomic survey of PAPs was started in 10 January
2001 and completed in 07 February 2001. Accomplished instruments were checked for
completeness on a daily basis. Forms with missing data were revalidated at the field for
correction. A copy of the survey instrument is provided as Appendix C.
3.8   Data Processing and Analysis
Properly filled up forms were inputted in the computer using SPSS version 9.0 for
Windows.
3-6



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 4.            PROCEEDINGS OF PUBLIC CONSULTATION
MEETINGS
The LARR Policy explicitly stated the importance of conducting a "thorough barangay
meeting to orient and ensure the that the community understands the nature and extent of
the proposed project". It further stressed that project awareness will facilitate the data
gathering process and ensure the quality of data that would be provided by the community to
the project team.
During the conduct of barangay-level PCMs, all the Barangay Officials who attended the
orientation meeting at the municipal level were present. As the barangays' respected leaders,
their participation provided an atmosphere that allowed a free flow of discussion to take
place. As observed, the PAPs were at ease, trusting, and eager to listen. Even when they
were informed that the implementation of the Project would entail displacement, they
maintained an open mind by responding that "sacrifices must at times be made for the benefit
of more people".
Majority of the PAPs expressed strong support to the Project. Some became emotional
because according to them, they have been waiting for a very long time for the improvement
of this road section. En elderly woman even exclaimed that the long wait has turned her hair
to gray. However, some conveyed their apprehension regarding the manner and basis of
payment to their properties. In return for the "sacrifice", their only request is that they be
accorded prompt and just compensation. When the basic principles of the LARR Policy
and the objectives of the RAP were explained to them, their acceptance of the Project seemed
to have reached finality.
PCMs at project-affected barangays were held on the following schedule:
Barangay                       Date               Time
Masulog                                09 January 2001       2:00 p. m.
Biak-na-Bato                           09 January 2001       4:00 p. m.
Sitio Old Fabrica, Cabagna-an          10 January 2001       8:00 a. m.
Cabagna-an Proper                      10 January 2001       8:00 a. m.
Mansalanao Proper                      10 January 2001       1:00 p. m.
Robles                                 10 January 2001       4:00 p. m.
Sitio Nolan, Mansalanao                15 January 2001       2:00 p. m.
Sag-ang                                15 January 2001       4:00 p. m.
Sitio Calapnagan, Camandag             15 January 2001       5:00 p. m.
4-1



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Casrellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Although there were only seven (7) barangays traversed by the alignment, two (2) of these,
specifically Cabagna-an and Mansalanao have PAPs that belong to different sitios (a smaller
unit of a barangay), and are far apart from each other. In Barangay Camandag, only one sitio,
i.e., Sitio Calapnagan would be affected. Thus, nine (9) PCMs were conducted.
A brief description of the project, followed by the basic principles of the Resettlement
Policy was presented during each PCM. In summary these are:
(i)  The La Castellana-Canlaon City Road is under the World Bank-assisted
National Roads Improvement and Management Program (NRIMP) and as such
requires a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as a condition prior to
implementation;
(ii) The Resettlement Policy is initially applicable only to road projects under the
NRIMP and that the stakeholders must not expect the same guidelines,
particularly in terms of compensation, to be applied to other projects of the
DPWH;
(iii) The RAP would include three main areas of concern namely, the identification
of adverse environmental and social impacts as well as the recommendation of
mitigating measures to abate such impacts; the socio-economic survey of PAPs,
and the determination of compensation and entitlements to the PAPs.
(iv) The identification of project-affected structures was still preliminary since the
detailed engineering design for the road section was still on-going; and that the
tagging and census would be maximized to include all possible PAPs; It was
explained to them that the number of affected structures may still decrease once
the detailed design is completed, and this would be related to them through the
2nd Negros Occidental DEO;
(v)  The standard width of the road, following DPWH guidelines, is 12.7 meters,
consisting of 6.7 m travel way, 1.5 m shoulder and 1.5 m side ditches in both
directions. However the width may vary depending on the natural configuration
of the terrain; i.e., rolling to mountainous sections would necessitate wider R-O-
W due to cut and fill requirements.
(vi) The existing R-O-W for the La Castellana-Canlaon City Road is set at 20 meters,
except for some portions within the Mt. Kanlaon National Park, which are
narrower by about five (5) meters.
(vii) There would be a Cut-Off Date for identifying affected structures, after which
any additional or new construction will not be entitled to any compensation.
4-2



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
The cut-off date was set to be the last day of the conduct of socio-economic
survey.
(viii) Structures with stickers bearing the tag number and the letter "S" refer to
structures that would be severely affected, whereas those with the letter "M"
would refer to structures with marginal disturbance such as damages to fences,
extensions that are not vital to the stability and integrity of the main structure,
cutting of fruit-bearing trees, and the likes;
(ix) For fixed assets that would be demolished, PAPs will be compensated 100%
prior to demolition; however, it was pointed out that the PAPs must vacate their
properties seven (7) days after full payment is received whether the project will
be immediately implemented or not, as stated in a contract that they will sign
(The number of days was extended up to 30 days for permanent structures upon
request from residents);
(x)  Compensation for land would be based on the fair market value set by an
Independent Land Appraiser (ILA);
(xi) For fixed assets, compensation would be based on replacement cost (i.e., price
of labor and materials if the structure were to be reconstructed), without
deductions for salvaged materials;
(xii) Payment procedure to PAPs would be very transparent, since they would be
asked to sign documentation papers with the signature of the concerned
Barangay Captain affixed on it;
(xiii) That a RAP Implementation Committee (RIC), consisting of representatives
from the DPWH, Municipal and Barangay Officials, and the host communities,
will be formed, giving the PAPs a chance to actively participate in the
implementation of the RAP;
(xiv) That grievances arising from any aspect of the Project (except land valuation)
can be ventilated through the RIC, and that these shall be acted upon
accordingly within prevailing laws, rules, and regulations.
4.1   Project Stakeholders
There are five (5) main groups of stakeholders for the La Castellana-Canlaon City Road
Section. These are the: (i) DPWH 2nd Negros Occidental District Engineering Office (project
implementer); (ii) local government officials of La Castellana and the seven (7) project
4-3



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
affected barangays; (iii) officers and members of the Mt. Kanlaon National Park Protected
Areas Management Board (MKNP-PAMB); (iv) local residents of project-effected
barangays; and (v) landowners of realignment sections at Barangay Robles.
Representatives from all these groups participated in the PCMs. Key personnel from the
DPWH 2nd Negros Occidental District Engineering Office based at Binalbagan, including its
Chief of Planning Section, Engr. Lea Delfinado were present in all these PCMs. To better
familiarize and prepare the DEO on the various RAP activities, the Consultant let Engr.
Delfinado preside the last three (3) PCMs. The said PCMs were completed satisfactorily.
-Aside from the briefing held at the Mayor's Office at La Castellana, Barangay Captains of
affected barangays attended the respective PCMs. The barangay captains represent both the
LGU and the MKNP-PAMB since they are members of both institutions. In addition to these
PCMs, a separate consultation meeting was undertaken with the MKNP Protected Area
Superintendent (PASu), Mr. Errol Gatumbato on 01 Feb 2001, at the MKNP Office in
Bacolod City.
4.2   The Project Team
Project Team here refers to the group that is responsible for the completion of the RAP. The
members consist of Ms. Olive Baguio of the EIAPO, Ms. Delia Mabaquiao of Region VI,
Engr. Lea Delfinado, Mr. Mario T. Muleta, Mr. Kirk Laxa, and Mr. Ricky Manlangit of the
2d Negros Occidental DEO, Mr. Paquito Franco of KEI, Mr. Ferdie Narcisa, Mrs. Felicia
Gabriel, and Mr. Ronaldo Manipol of Katahira & Engineer International, and Ms. Annabelle
Herrera, as the Team Leader.
4.3   Mechanisms for Stakeholder Participation
As mentioned in Chapter 3, participants were encouraged to raise issues, concerns, or
reactions to the proposed Project'during the open forum portion of the PCMs. A summary of
the issues and concerns raised during the PCMs are provided in Table 4.1. Please note that
the barangay/sitio at which the issues were raised are indicated on the middle column for
proper reference.
4-4



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 4.1  Issues and Concerns Raised During the PCMs
Issues/Concerns Raised        Stakeholders Who       Responses Made by the Project Team
Raised the
Issues/Concerns
They strongly support the Project  Brgys. Masulog, Biak-  If the affected communities will help make the
even though it will entail some  na-Bato, Cabagna-an  preparation of the RAP successful by
form of sacrifices on their part,                   cooperating during the census and surveys, then
such as damage to their properties                   their aspiration of having a paved roadway
would be more attainable
That compensation be based on  Brgy. Masulog         Compensation of fixed assets would be in terms
the actual dimension and type of                     of replacement cost, i.e., the cost to reconstruct a
materials that the structures are                    new structure of the same size, using the same
made of, instead of a flat rate for                  type of materials
all
If the houses within the MKNP  Brgys. Masulog, Biak-  For PAPs inside the MKNP, compensation
will also be compensated,      na-Bato               would be on affected structures and .
considering that they don't own                      improvements, even if they don't own the land
the land
If their houses are located along  Brgy. Masulog     If there are no other available alienable and
cliffs that would be cut or filled,                  disposable land in Brgy. Masulog, the LGU of
where can they build their new                       La Castellana has identified areas for urban
homes                                                expansion in Barangay Robles and Brgy.
Cabacungan, which are possible relocation sites
for these types of displacement. However, some
of these areas are still subject to approval by the
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) for
conversion from agricultural to build-up areas.
If Tax Declaration can be used as  Brgy. Masulog     Tax Declaration (TID) is an acceptable proof of
proof of land ownership                              ownership of land. Holders of TD are eligible
for land compensation
If they don't own the land but  Brgys. Biak-na-Bato,  Compensation would be in terms of the affected
they own the structures        Cabagna-an           structures and improvements only
What the compensation would be  Brgy. Masulog, Sitio  If the impact is severe, and the PAP is a
if land to be acquired is planted to  Nolan of Mansalanao  landowner, he would be compensated for the
sugarcane                                            land based on ILA appraisal plus financial
assistance, and given sufficient time to harvest
their crops. If he is an agricultural lessee, he
would be paid disturbance compensation
equivalent to five (5) times the average of his
gross harvest during the last five (5) years, but
not less than P15, 000.00
If there will be compensation for  Brgys. Masulog, Biak-  Fruit trees and crops to be damaged will be
fruit trees to be cut, and crops to  na-Bato, Cabagna-an,  included in the payment for improvements, and
be damaged, and what will be the  Robles            price would be based on the valuation of the
basis for payment                                   Municipal Assessor
4-5



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 4.1  Issues and Concerns Raised During the PCMs (Continued...)
If cost for demolition will be  Brgys. Biak-na-Bato,  Cost for demolition would be included in the
included in the computation of                       computation for replacement cost if the PAP
compensation package                                 will be the one to have his structure demolished;
otherwise, demolition cost would be deducted
from the compensation package
Who will demolish the structures  Brgys. Biak-na-Bato,  For PAPs who own structures that are made of
light to wooden materials, the Consultant
advised them to demolish their own abodes so
that they can carefully disband the structure and
thus ensure that salvaged materials can still be
utilized. For owners of semi-concrete to
concrete houses, they have the option whether to
demolish their own structures, or let DPWH do
it. If they choose the second option, the cost for
demolition would be deducted from their
compensation package.
If there will be a relocation site do  Brgys. Biak-na-Bato,  In accordance with the law (RA 7279),
the relocatees need to pay for the                   relocatees at govemment-provided relocation
land                                                 sites must pay for the land they will occupy at an
amortization rate affordable to them, and must
be guaranteed security of tenure.
How far from the centerline will  Brgys Cabagna-an,  This would depend on the type of terrain and the
be covered by the construction  Sitio Nolan of       construction limit. Since the existing R-O-W is
activities                     Mansalanao, Sitio     20 meters, they can expect the construction limit
Calapnagan of         to reach 10 meters from the centerline.
Camandag
If the government will pay based  Brgys. Biak-na-Bato,  For land to be acquired, the government would
on the actual assessment of the  Cabagna-an          pay at the rate specified by the ILA. For
property                                             structures, it would be based on replacement
cost. For improvements, it would be based on
the Municipal Assessor's latest schedule of
payment for improvements.
If landowners could recover    Sitio Nolan of        Landowners could recover salvaged materials
salvaged materials             Mansalanao            without being deducted from their
compensation.
What the compensation would be  Sitio Nolan of       If the entire structure would be damaged, or
for big concrete houses        Mansalanao            when the remaining structure becomes not
viable for continued use, compensation would
be for the entire building, based on replacement
cost. For partial damage and the structure would
still be viable for continued use, only the
affected portion would be compensated based on
replacement cost.
The seven (7) days given to the  Brgy. Sag-ang       The Consultant discussed this issue with the
PAPs to vacate their properties                      DPWH EIAPO and requested for an extension
after full paymentis not                             of fifteen (15) to thirty (30) days. The EIAPO
sufficient,for building a new                        decided to allow PAFs with permanent
house, particularly for semi                         structures thirty (30) days to vacate their abodes,
concrete to concrete structures                      whereas those with makeshift structures still
have to do it in seven (7) days.
4-6



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Cania-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 5.            RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
The province of Negros Occidental where the La Castellana-Canlaon Road section is located
is the largest among the other provinces in Region 6. Its total land area is 792,697 hectares.
It is situated in the northern and western portion of Negros Island, and is divided from the
other half of the Island, Negros Oriental, by the Kanla-on Mountain Range.
5.1   Characterization of Geo-Political Units
5.1.1 La Castellana, The Affected Municipalitv
La Castellana is an inland municipality of the island of Negros Occidental. It is bounded on
the north by La Carlota City, on the south by the Municipalities of Isabela and Moises Padilla,
on the west by the Municipalities of Pontevedra and and Hinigaran, and on the east by Canla-
on City of Negros Oriental. It has a total land area of 21,651 hectares, which is around
2.73% of the total land area of Negros Occidental.
La Castellana has two (2) major land management units namely, Alienable and Disposable
(A & D) land and Forest Land. Forest Land is defined by the boundaries of the Mount
Kanla-on National Park (MKNP), which measures 3,239 hectares plus another 168 hectares
devoted to production forest, designated as an Integrated Social Forestry (ISF) Program area
by the DENR, totaling to 3, 407 hectares of forest land. The remaining 18,244 hectares is
classified as A & D. The Municipality devotes 4,585 hectares of its A & D land to food
production, whereas a much larger 10,835 hectares of land is devoted to industrial crops,
which are mostly sugarcane.
La Castellana consists of 13 barangays. In its Comprehensive Land Use Plan (CLUP), these
barangays were grouped into four (4) "sub-municipal" units based on common attributes such as
elevation, existing land use, extent of urbanization, and location within the MKNP. These are the
(i) "NATALA", which stands for the barangays of Nato, Talaptap, and Lalagsan; (ii) "CCMP',
consisting of Camandag, Cabacungan, Manghanoy, and Puso; (iii) "MCNP5", which includes the
upland barangays that are located inside the MKNP, namely Masulog, Biak-na-Bato, Cabagna-an,
Mansalanao, and Sag-ang and (iv) ROBLES, the only urban barangay of the Municipality.
5-1



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Demographic Characteristics
La Castellana's population was registered as 54,277 in 1990 and 59,620 in 1995, based
on the 1995 NSO Census of Population and Housing data. These represents 2.4% and
2.9% of Negros Occidental's total population, respectively. Its population density in
1990 was 250 per km2 and in 1995, 275 per km2.
As seen from Table 5.1.1, the Municipality's growth rate from the time it became a town
in 1918 up to the present do not seem to indicate a regular pattern. The significant
increase in population from the 1930's to 1948 was attributed to the influx of sugarcane
plantation laborers called "sakadas", who were hired from the island of Panay. The
negative growth rate from 1960 to 1970 on the other hand, was assumed to be due to the
eruption of Mt. Kanlaon in 1969. This was followed by growth rates in the 1970's,
which were again attributed to a recovery of the sugar industry. A relatively stable
growth pattern from 1990 to 1995 was attributed to success of the Family Planning
campaign of the government (CLUP of La Castellana, 1995-2005).
Table 5.1.1  Population and Growth Rate of
La Castellana, 1918-1995
Year       Population    Growth Rate
1918           8,087           -
1939           16,861         5.2
1948           24,654         5.1
1960          35,630          3.7
1970          34,881         -0.2
1975          41,821          3.9
1980          44,684          1.4
1990           54,277         2.1
1995           59,620         1.9
Source:  Modified from the CLUP of La Castellana,
1995-2005
Table 5.1.2 shows the population and growth rates of the four (4) sub-municipal units in
La Castellana. As seen from this table, the MCNP5 showed the highest average growth
rate of 4.05% from 1970 to 1990. On the contrary, the only urban barangay, Robles only
grew at 0.68% during the 20-year period. This trend alarmed the LGU, since the
MCNP5 barangays are located adjacent to and within the MKNP, where encroachment
and agricultural activities are highly discouraged. It was mentioned in the CLUP that the
remarkable growth rate in MCNP5 might be attributed to the insurgency problem during
5-2



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
those times, which triggered the in-migration of people from the hinterlands of Negros
Oriental towards these upland barangays of La Castellana. The trend seemed to have
normalized from 1990 to 1995, wherein the average growth rates of Robles and MCNP5
became 4.26% and 1.29%, respectively.
Table 5.1.2   Population and Growth Rates of the Sub-Municipal Units of La Castellana
1970       1990      Average     1995      Average
Sub-Municipal Unit                                    Growth                Growth
Rate                  Rate
Robles                                     10,789      12,266      0.68     14,879       4.26
NATALA (Nato, Talaptap, Lalagsan)           4,843      7,856       3.11      7,609       -0.63
CCMP    (Camandag, Cabacungan,              8,292      14,734      3.88      16,138       1.90
Manghanoy, and Puso)                        I          I          I
MCNP5 (Sag-ang, Mansalanao, Cabagna-an     10,899      19,721      4.05     20,994        1.29
Biak-na-Bato, Masulog)
Source: Modified from the CLUP of La Castellana, 1995-2005
Socioeconomic Characteristics
The municipal economy of La Castella is agriculture-based with sugarcane as the
primary crop, followed by rice and corn, and then by bananas, vegetables, coffee, and
coconut. As previously mentioned, 10,835 hectares or 50% of its total land area is
devoted to sugarcane plantation, whereas only 4,585 hectares, or 21% is planted to rice
and other food crops. This is also shown by the distribution of its labor force, which
consists of more than 79% that are engaged in its primary industry (Please see Table
5.1.3).
Table 5.13    Distribution of Labor Force in La Castellana by Type of Industry
Industry                                  Population       % to Total
A. Primary                                        15,246          79.88
(Agriculture, Fishery, Forestry, Mining,
Quarrying)
B.  Secondary                                      1,047           5.48
(Manufacturing, Electricity, Gas & Water
Construction)
C. Tertiary                                        2,794          14.64
(Wholesale & Retail Trade, Transportation,
Storage & Communication, Finance,
Insurance, Real Estate Business Services,
Community, Social & Related Services)
TOTAL               19,087         100.00
Source: Modified from the CLUP of La Castellana (1995-2005)
5-3



San Enrique-Valleherrnoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
La Castellana has only one urban center----Brgy. Robles. In its land use plan, it is
regarded as the service center of Brgys. Sag-ang, Camandag, Nato, Lalagsan, Talaptap,
and Mansalanao. It is also planned for expansion through accretion or extension of its
urban area. However, although it is considered as the major trading in the municipality, it
does not have the capacity to absorb all the town's farm products. Surplus in crop
production are normally brought to Bacolod City and other cities and municipalities such
as La Carlota, Bago City, Isabela, and even San Carlos City; and command a good price.
Brgy. Cabacungan is the secondary growth center of the Municipality. It is envisioned
as the service center of Brgys. Manghanoy, Puso, Biak-na-Bato, Masulog, and Cabagna-
an. Based on its CLUP, it has the most active trading activity. People from Cabacungan
and other nearby barangays do not need to go to Robles since their household needs are
available in this barangay.
The only financing institution in the municipality is the United Coconut Planter's Bank,
which is formerly the Rural Bank of La Castellana.
Development Concerns of the Municipality
Based on the Municipality's CLUP, the following comprise its development concerns:
(i)   Boundary conflict with Negros Oriental
(ii)  Diminishing forest cover due to destructive farming activities such as the
slash and burn (kaingin) method
(iii) Presence of titled lands and settlements site inside the MKNP
(iv)  Vulnerability of the integrity of MIKNP due to human intrusion
(v)   Natural hazards to the community such as the presence of an active
volcano (Mt. Kanla-on) and flooding in the lowland areas such as
Poblacion (Robles)
It can be noted from the above-enumerated concerns that three (3) out of five (5) are
concerning the protection of the MKNP from further degradation due to destructive
human activities. Part of the Municipality's main objectives and strategies to address
these concems are:
(vi)  To reduce the population growth in the barangays located within the
MKNP;
5-4



San Enfique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
(vii)  To provide alternative livelihood to upland farmers so that forest
destruction due to illegal farming activities can be avoided;
(viii) To intensify family planning program in the upland barangays;
(ix)  To increase private participation through investments; add
(x)   To further develop Brgy. Cabacungian as a secondary growth center
5.1.2 MCNP5 and Robles: The Affected Sub-Municipal Units
The La Castellana-Canla-on City Road traverses two (2) of the four (4) sub-municipal
units of the Municipality, namely the MCNP5 and Brgy. Robles. MCNP5, as previously
mentioned are made up of Brgys. Sag-ang, Mansalanao, Cabagna-an, Biak-na-Bato,
and Masulog.
Table 5.1.4 presents a comparison between the 1990 population densities at the
provincial, municipal, and sub-municipal levels (Brgy. Robles and MCNP5). It is
noticeable from the table that among the upland barangays of the MCNP5, Cabagna-an
shows the highest population density inside the MKNP, which is even higher than its
density outside the Park. This means that in that barangay, majority (70.8%) of the
residents live inside the MKNP.
Although the settlements within the Park may have existed even before the proclamation
of the MKNP as a protected area, population growth should have been controlled. As
cited in the CLUP, the spirit of the proclamation should have "withdrawn the protected
area from sale, settlement, and other forms of disposition". Instead, infrastructure and
facilities that served as attractions for more people to settle inside the Park were built.
Some of these are the school buildings in Brgys. Masulog, Biak-na-Bato, and Cabagna-an
that were constructed inside the MKNP, plus the water supply system that services most
of the upland barangays. Nevertheless, the Municipal Officials are still very keen in
preserving the integrity of the Park, and is cognizant of the need to institute the proper
policies that would help realize this objective.
5-5



San Enrique-Vallehernoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.1.4  Comparative Population Densities at the Provincial, Municipal, and Sub-Municipal Levels
Sub-unit/Barangay  Land Area  Population   Density   Land Area   Population   Density
A & D      (Outside               Inside the  Inside
(Outside the  MKNP)                  MKNP       MKNP
Park, in                           (kM2)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ~~~~kn2)
NEGROS OCC.          7,926.10  1,892,728        239        NA          NA          NA
LA CASTELLANA         216.51     54,277        251         NA          NA          NA
Robles                 33.90     12,266        362         NA          NA          NA
MCNP5                  52.21      15,261       292        32.39      4,460         137
Sag-ang            26.90       9,008        335        9.20        650          71
Mansalanao          7.88       2,206        280        2.02          0           0
-abagiaan .                    8'-  537:.:  844.e - 1 -  517; '  8.48-' i'2.050,  242
Biak-na-Bato        6.62       1,382        209        8.33       1,270        152
Masulog             5.44       1,821        335        4.36        490         112
Source: Modified from the CLUP Of La Castellana, 1995-2005
5.2    Socioeconomic Profile of PAFs
The following socioeconomic information on the severely and marginally affected
families are based on the census and socioeconomic survey undertaken from 10 January
to 07 February 2001. As mentioned in Chapter 3 of this report, a 100% census was
carried out for all PAFs, but in terms of the socioeconomic survey, only the severely
affected were interviewed. For ease of discussion, PAFs who will be severely affected
will be referred to in this report as SPAFs; those who will just be marginally affected,
MPAFs.
Based on the LAA, there are a total of 150 severely affected families and 11 public
infrastructure facilities (waiting sheds, barangay hall, and water pipes). On the other
hand, there are 144 families and two (2) public infrastructure facilities (waiting shed and
school fence) that will be marginally affected.
Table 5.2.1 shows the distribution of project affected persons and families, and public
infrastructure facilities by barangay. As shown in the table, Brgy. Cabagna-an has the
most number of affected PAFs, both for the severe and marginal categories. This may be
because among the upland barangays in the MCNP5, Cabagna-an has the most number of
persons living inside the Park. The same logic applies to Biak-na-Bato, being the second
in rank. It is important to note here that although all the realignment sections are located
in Brgy. Robles, one (1) family and one (1) public infra (waiting shed), will be severely
5-6



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
affected since most of the areas to be traversed are planted to sugarcane, and sparsely
populated.
Table 5.2.1   Distribution of SPAFs, MPAFs and Public Infrastructure
Facilities by Barangay
Severe Impact            Marginal Impact
Barangay           PAFs         Public Infra  PAFs        Public Infra
Masulog                   28                        23            1
Biak-Na-Bato              40             -          30
Cabagnaan                 53            1           44 X
Mansalanao                12            9           27
Camandag                   7             -           8            1
Sag-Ang                    9             -          12             -
Robles                     1            1            0             -
Total        150           11          144            2
5.2.1 Demography and Basic Information
Household Size
Tables 5.2.2a and 5.2.2b show respectively the household size of the SPAFs and MPAFs
per barangay. As seen from these tables, majority of both categories of PAFs have an
average household size of 1 to 4. Only 2.1%       and 0.7%    have household size greater than
10 for the severely and marginally affected families, respectively.
Table 52.2a Household Size of SPAFs
Barangay                                    Household Size/Percentage
1-4      %        5-7       %        -810     %     >10       %
Masulog                11     40.7       10     37.0        5     18.5         1     3.7
Biak-Na-Bato           16     43.2       18     48.6         2     5.4        1      2.7
Cabagnaan              30     58.8       17     333         4      7.8         -       -
Mansalanao              5     45.5        3     273         3     273
Camandag                5     71.4        1      143         1    143
Sag-Ang                 7     77.8        1     11.1         -       -        1     11.1
Robles                  -       -         1    100.0         -       -         -       -
Total      74    51.7       51      35.7       15     10.5        3     2.1
5-7



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-CanJa-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.2.2b Household Size of MPAFs
Barangay                                       Household Size/Percentage
14                 5-7       %        8-10      %      >10        %
Masulog                   6     273         13     59.1         3     13.6
Biak-Na-Bato             11     393         13     46.4         4      143
Cabagnaan                20     48.8        15     36.6         6     14.6
Mansalanao               16     61.5        10     38.5          -       -   I
Camandag                  2     25.0         5     62.5         1     12.5          -        -
Sag-Ang                   7     583          2     16.7         2     16.7          1      83
Total      62     453         58      423         16     11.7         1      0.7
Educational Attainment
The level of educational attainment of the severely and marginally affected respondents
in the affected barangays is presented in Tables 5.2.3a and 5.2.3b, respectively.
Table 5.2.3a   Educational Attainment of SPAFs
Education (Number/Percentage)
Barangay.      ELem.        Elem.       HS           HS Graduate  Vocational  College     College      None
Undergrad    Graduate    Undergrad                Grad.       Undergad.    Graduate
Masulog               16           6           1            4           -
593%        22.2%         3.7%       14.8%            -            -            -
Biak-Na-Bato          17           6           4            2           -            4           3          2
44.7%        15.8%       105%         5.3%            -       105%          7.9%      53%
Cabagnaan            18           15           7            5           1            1            -         5
34.6%       28.8%        13.5%        9.6%         1.9%        1.9%                   9.6%
Mansalanao.                                    2
75.0%        83%         16.7%            -           -
Camandag              2            1           1            1            -
28.6%       143%         143%        143%             -            -       143%      143%
Sag-Ang               5            1           1            1           -            -            -
55.6%        11.1%       11.1%       11.1%            -            -
Robles                I                        -            -           -            ---
100.0%o                       -            -           -            -_
Total         68          30          16           13           1            5           4          9
46.6%       20.5%        11.0% c      8.9%         0.7%        3.4%         2.7%      6.2%
5-8



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.23b  Educational Attainment of MPAFs
Education (Number/Percentage)
Barangay     Elem.      Elem.     HS         HS Graduate  Vocatonal  College  College  None
Undergrad  Graduate  Undergrad            Grad.      Undergrad.  Graduate
Masulog            6          9         1          5               -               1
26.1%     39.1%       43%      21.7%          -          -      43%      43%
Biak-Na-Bato      11          6         7          1         -          2          1
393%      21.4%      25.0%      3.6%          -       7.1%      3.6%
Cabagnaan         17         15         6          5                    -          I
38.6%     34.1%      13.6%      11.4%                           23%
Mansalanao         2          8         5          4         1          1          4
7.7%      30.8%     19.2%      15.4%      3.8%       3.8%      15.4%    3.8%
Camandag           3          2         1          -         -          -          -       2
375%       25.0%o    12.5%          -         -                         25.0%
Sag-Ang            4          2         -          5         -          1
333%       16.7%         -      41.7%         -       83%           -
Total      43         42        20         20         1          4          7        4
30.5%     29.8%      14.2%      14.2%      0.7%       2.8%      5.0%     2.8%
As seen from these tables, majority of the respondent PAFs (46.6% for SPAFs, 30.5%
for MPAFs) did not finish elementary education. Only a few finished high school (8.9%
for SPAFs, 14.2% for MPAFs), and even fewer that finished college education (2.7% for
SPAFs, 5.0% for MPAFs). This low level of literacy rate makes them less eligible and
competitive in terms of landing jobs, particularly at more urbanized areas, such as Argy.
Robles, or even in other adjacent progressive cities and municipalities. This may be one
of the major reasons why they opted to occupy the upland areas in spite of the fact that
human settlements are discouraged within the MKNP.
Residence History
To determine the factors that may have triggered the habitation of the upland barangays
within the MKNP, the residency history of the SPAFs is evaluated. Based on Table
5.2.4a, 31.8% of the respondent-SPAFs have been residing in these areas for 0-5 years;
19.7% for 6-10 years; 15.9% for 16-20 years, and 22% for more than 20 years. For the
respondent MPAFs, residency is almost evenly distributed between the different ranges,
but shows that a significant number of population (25.7%) have been living in the upland
barangays for more than twenty years (See Table 5.2.4b).
The above-mentioned results indicate that majority of the respondents could have settled
in the upland areas between the 1970's and 1980's. Looking back at La Castellana's
growth rate and the previously mentioned factors that influenced it, insurgency problems
5-9



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
in the hinterlands of Negros Oriental could have prodded such in-migration during those
periods. In fact, during the course of the interview, some respondents even mentioned
that their place of work is at a certain "camp" on the other side of the mountain.
Table 5.2.4a    Residence History of SPAFs
I   Residency
Barangay           0- 5       %        6-10       %        11-15      %        16 - 20     %      >20 years    %
years                years               years               yeas
Masulog                7      30.4         3      13.0         6      26.1          1      4.3          6      26.1
Biak-Na-Bato           8      24.2         7      21.2         5      15.2          7     21.2          6      18.2
Cabagnaan              16     37          11      224         5      10.2         5       10.2        12      24.5
Mansalanao             6      54.5         2      18.2          1      9.1          1      9.1          1       9.1
Camandag               3      429          1      143          2      28.6                  I-                 14.3
Sag-Ang                2      25.0         1      12.5         2      25.0                              3      37.5
Robies                      -              1     100.0          -        -          -        -          -
Total        42      31.8        26      19.7        21      15.9        14      10.6         29      22.0
Table 5.2Ab     Residence History of MTAFs
Residency
Barangay           0 - 5      %        6-10       %        11-15     9%       16-20       %       >20 years    %
years               yearso               years              yeaas
Masulog                10     526          2      10.5         2      10.5         1       53           4      21.1
Biak-Na-Bato           3      143          3      143          3      143          7      33.3          5      23.8
Cabagnuan              6      20.7         4      13.8         8      27.6         2       6.9          9      31.0
Mansalanao             5      21.7         4      17.4         3      13.0         4      17.4          7      30.4
Camandag                1     16.7         2      33.3          -        -         2      33.3          1      16.7
Sag-Ang                3      27.3         1       9.1         3      27.3         2      18.2          2      18.2
Total        28      25.7        16      14.7        19      17.4        18      16.5         28     25.7
5.2.2 Socioeconomic Characteristics
Socioeconomic characteristics of the SPAFs will be described in this section based on the
results of the survey conducted. The SPAFs' standard of living and socioeconomic status
shall be evaluated using the following indicators: (i) sources of income; (ii) household
income and expenditures; (iii) level of education attained; (iv) type and ownership of
structure occupied; and (v) type of lighting, water supply, cooking fuel, and sanitation
facilities.
5-10



San Enfique-Vallehermnoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Primary Occupation
The SPAFs' primary occupation is farming. As shown in Tables 5.2.5 majority of the
respondents are either farmers (34.0%), or hired           farm   workers (19.4%).       Another
primary source of income for the affected barangays, particularly the female respondents
are small-scale commercial establishments called sari-sari stores. This type of enterprise
is very commonly observed along the roadway. In Table 5.2.5, this source of income is
entered as "Business Operator".
Table 525       Primary Occupation of SPAFs
Primary Occupation (Number/Percentage)
Barangay    Farmer   Iired     Skilled   UrVkiled  Prof.     Prof.     Business  House   Others    None
Farm      Labor     Labor    Employee   Practice  Operator  keer
Worker 
Masulog          8         6         1         1                             5                          3
29.6%     22.2%     3.7%      3.7%                   _     185%     7.4%      3.7%     11.1%
Biak-Na-         11        7         2         2         1         1         3       4
Bato
29.7%     18.9%     5.4%      5.4%       2.7%     27%       8.1%   -io8%      135%     2.7%
Cabapnaa        25         6         2         3         1                  8        l         3        2
49.0%     11.8%     3.9%      5.9%       2.0%              15.7%    2.0%o     5.99'o   3.9%
Manlsalanao      2         2                             .                  5        3          7 
16.7%     16.7%                             .              41.7%   25.0%         -
C-andag    2        2                                       _ 1 
28.6%     28h6%                         143%               143%                  -     143%
Sag-Ang          1         4                                                 1                 2   _I
11.1%    44.4%                                             11.1%             222%     11.1%
Robles
100.0%        _      _                                                            - 
Total      49        28         5        6          3         1       23       10        U        8
34.0%     19A%      3.5%      42%        2.1%     0.7%     16.0%    6S%       7.6%     5.6%C
Household Income
Table 5.2.6a shows that majority of the surveyed households (71.5%) fall below P63,
360, Region 6's annual poverty threshold for a family of six (based on incidences in 1997,
Philippine Statistical Yearbook, 2000). Of these, 48.9% fall below the annual food
threshold of P39, 239. These figures indicate the SPAFs' high vulnerability to greater
degrees of impoverishment if their income sources are taken away from them. Since the
5-11



San Enrique-Vallehernoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
economy of La Castellana is generally agriculture-based, it becomes necessary to assess
the SPAFs' dependence on land as a source of livelihood.
Table 5.2.6a  Housebold Income of SPAFs
Total Household Income
Barangay      <P39,239            P39,240 to           >63,360
P63,360
Masulog           11       44.0         6       24.0        8       32.0
Biak-Na-Bato      17       45.9         6       16.2       14       37.8
Cabagnaan         28       57.1         8       163        13       265
Mansaianao         6       54.5        3        273         2       18.2
Camandag           2       333          2       333         2       333
Sag-Ang            3       375          5       62.5        -
Robles                                  1      100.0        -
Total     67        48.9       31       22.6       39       28.5
Sources of Income
To better understand the effects of possible displacement, the SPAFs' household incomes
presented in Table 5.2.6a are further subdivided into two (2) types: farm and non-farm
incomes. Farm income refers to household earnings derived from farming and other
related agricultural activities. Non-farm income pertains to salaries and wages from
employment, profit from business operation, and remittances from working family
members who do not live with the SPAFs. In this manner, the SPAFs' dependence on
land as its main source of livelihood can be assessed.
Tables 5.2.6b and 5.2.6c show the farm and non-farm income of the SPAFs',
respectively. Table 5.2.6b shows that in Brgys. Cabagna-an, Mansalanao, Camandag,
Sag-ang, and Robles, if the income of the respondents would be derived from farming
only, 100% would fall below the Region 6 poverty threshold for a family of six. On the
other hand, if the SPAFs' incomes were solely derived from non-farm sources such as
those. mentioned above, only 59.8% would fall below the annual food threshold, 15.2%
would be earning between the annual food and poverty threshold, and 25.0% would earn
more than P63, 360 per annum. This is not to say that the SPAFs would be better off if
they don't engage in farming activities. It just shows that farming in the upland
barangays are of the marginal type, and the SPAFs would be better off if they would have
more alternative sources of non-farm income. The same impression is indicated when the
average annual farm incomes were graphed vis-a-vis the average annual non-farm
incomes of the SPAFs.
5-12



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road ( Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.2.6b  Farm Income of SPAFs
Total Farm Income
Barangay         <P39,239                 P39,240 to                >63,360        %
P63,360
Masulog                11         57.9          5         263            3         15.8
Biak-Na-Bato           17         68.0          4         16.0           4         16.0
Cabagnaan              28         87.5          4         12.5            -           -
Mansalanao             5          833           1         16.7
Camandag                2         66.7          1         333
Sag-Ang                5          100            -           -
Robles
Total        68         75.6          15         16.7           7          7.8
Table 5.2.6c  Non-Farm Income of SPAFs
Total Non-Farn Income
Barangay         <P39,239                 P39,240 to                >63,360       %
P63,360
Masulog                8          57.1          2         143            4         28.6
Biak-Na-Bato          21          61.8          3          8.8          10         29.4
Cabagnaan             25          62.5          4         10.0          11         27.5
Mansalanao             6          60.0          2         20.0           2         20.0
Camandag               4          66.7          1         16.7           1         16.7
Sag-Ang                3         42.9           4         57.1            -           -
Robles                  -           -           1          100            -           -
Total        67         59.8          17         15.2          28         25.0
Household Expenditures
The SPAFs' average annual household expenditures by barangay is shown in Table 5.2.
As seen from the table, food expenses comprise bulk of the SPAFs' total annual
expenditures. This is followed by education, utilities, and other expenses. This strongly
indicates that crops obtained from the farmlands are not sufficient for the community's
sustenance. This may be because in the project area, sugarcane is preferred over rice,
corn, and other food crops, particularly when its market price is high.
5-13



San Enrique-Vallehernoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.2.7  Average Annual Household Expenditures of SPAFs
Household Expenditures
Barangay           Food       %      Utilities   %      Education    %       Other      %       Total
Masulog            25,739    84.0      1,561     5.1       3,063    10.0       282      1.0     30,645
Biak-na-Bato       30,676    733       4,446     10.6      6,484    15.5        234     0.5     41,840
Cabagna-an         30,022    72.7      1,359      33       9,854    23.8        83      0.2     41,318
Mansalanao         33,236    81.3        794      1.9      6,706    16.4        133     03      40,869
Camandag           27,095    62.2      1,058      2.4      6,180    14.2      1,946     4.5     43,586
Sag-ang            25,950    55.9      2,682      5.8     13,809    29.7          -       -     46,441
Robles             42,000   100.0                                                               42,000
Overall            29,328   75A7       2,210     5.69     7,060    18.20       260     0.60     38,858
Availability of Basic Social Services
Results of the survey showed that only 53.2% of the households interviewed have access
to electricity as a source of lighting. A high 36.9% still use kerosene for illuminating
their abodes (See Table 5.2.8). A relatively low percentage of population being supplied
may be viewed from two perspectives. One is that this may be due to the remoteness of
the area and lack of economic viability on the part of the service provider. It may also be
a form of discouragement from concerned parties such as the MKNP-PAMB and LGU of
La Castellana in order to dissuade present and future settlers from occupying the Park,
and thus protect and preserve its integrity.
Table 52.8    Type of Lighting of SPAFs' Dwelling Units
lighting Source
Bamngay        Electricity  %     Kerosene    %      Oil lamp    %       Others      %
lamp                          _
Masulog             19    73.1          4     15.4         2      7.7
Biak-Na-Bato        26    72.2          8     22.2         2      5.6
Cabagnaan           26    51.0         22     43.1         3      5.9          -       -
Mansalanao           2    18.2          8     72.7         -        -         1      9.1
Camandag             1    143           3     42.9       .                    3     42.9
Sag-Ang              1    11.1          6     66.7                            2     22
Robles                -      -          I    100.0                             -       -
Total        75    53.2         52    36.9          7     5.0          6     4.3
5-14



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
In terms of source of water supply, majority or 85.9% of the respondents obtain their
domestic water supply from the river, or spring development systems (Please refer to
Table 5.2.9. Again, this may be due to the lack of funds to develop higher levels of
water supply system, or just another way to discourage human settlements inside the Park.
Table 52.9     Source of Water Supply of SPAFs
Source of Water
Barangay          Rain       %       Springt       %        Dug        %        Piped      %
River                 Well
Masulog                -        -         24       923          -        -           2      7.7
Biak-Na-Bato          2       5.4         32       86.5         1      2.7           2      5.4
Cabagnaan             4       7.8         41       80.4         -        -           6     11.8
Mansalanao             -        -         10       90.9         1      9.1           -        -
Camandag                                   7      100.0         -        -           -        -
Sag-Ang                                    7       77.8                              2     22.2
Robles       -                             1      100.0
Total          6      4.2        122       85.9         2      IA           12      8.5
Other indicators of a low standard of living are deficiencies in terms of sanitation
facilities. It can be observed from Table 5.2.10 that most of the residents at the upland
barangays still use the open pit type of toilet (31.7%). A relatively high 23.2% have
none at all.
Table 5210     Type of Toilet Fadlity of SPAFs
Toilet Facility
Barangay        Open pit    %       Antipolo    %       Semi-      %       Flush      %        None       %
flush
Masulog               3     115         11     423         10      385          -        -         2       7.7
Biak-Na-Bato         15     405          5      135         9      243          3      8.1         5      135
Cabagnaan            18     35.3         1      2.0        16      31.4         2      3.9        14      275
MansaLanao            3     27.3         -        -         2      182          -                  6     545
Camandag              2     28.6                            3      42.9                            2      28.6
Sag-Ang               4     44.4                            2      22.2                            3      33.3
Robles                    -         -         -        -         -         -        -              1     100.0
Total       45     31.7        17      12.0        42     29.6         5      3.5        33      23.2
5-15



San Enrique-Vallehernoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
In terms of the type of fuel used for cooking, majority of the respondent SPAFs (83.7%)
stated that they are still using wood for cooking food. Only a relatively small percentage
(9.9%) are already using LPGs in their kitchens (Please refer to Table 5.2.11).
Table 5.2.11  Type of Fuel Used by Severely Affected PAFs
I  Cooking Fuel
Barangay         Wood       %       Charcoal    %        LPG        %
Masulog              20)     76.9         4      15.4        2       7.7
Biak-Na-Bato         31      83.8         1      2.7         5      13u5
Cabagnaan            41      82.0         4      8.0         5       10.0
Mansalanao           11     100.0         -        -          -
Camandag              5      71.4                            2      28.6
Sag-Ang               9     100.0         -             -
Robles                1     100.0                  -
Total      118      87           9       6.4       14       9.9
5.2.3 Proiect Awareness
As mentioned in Chapter 4, awareness of the proposed Project through barangay level
PCMs promoted the PAFs' level of acceptance. This was manifested by the PAFs'
eagerness to be photographed and interviewed during the conduct of census and
socioeconomic    survey.     Some    went   out of    their  way   and   postponed    other
appointments/activities, just to make sure that they are home when the enumerators reach
their house. Some tagged along with the enumerators until it was their turn to be
photographed and interviewed.
The SPAFs' and MPAF's awareness of the proposed project are presented in Table
5.2.12a and Table 5.2.12b, respectively. Table 5.2.13a and Table 5.2.13b on the other
hand show their respective sources of information about the Project.
Table 5.212a  Project Awareness of the SPAFs
Informed About the Project?
Barangay             Yes                  No                   Total
Masulog                22       84.6         4        15.4       26
Biak-Na-Bato           34       91.9         3         8.1       37
Cabagnaan              50       98.0          1        2.0       51
Mansalanao             11      100.0          -         -         11
Camandag                7       100.0                             7
Sag-Aug                 9       100.0                             9
Robles                  1       1.0
Total     134        944          8        5.6       142
5-16



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5X.12b   Project Awareness of the MPAFs
Informed About the Project?
Barangay               Yes                     No                     Total
Masulog                   20        90.9          2          9.1         22
Biak-Na-Bato              27        96.4           1         3.6         28
Cabagnaan                 42        955           2          4.5         44
Mansalanao                26         100           - _                   26
Camandag                   8         100           -          -           8
Sag-Ang                   12         100                                 12
Total       135        96.6          5         3A          140
Table 5.2.13a    SPAFs' Source of Information About the Project
Source of Infornation About the Project
Barangay          LGUs        %       DPWH         %      Neighbors    %      Relatives    %
DEO                 /Friends
Masulog                8     34.8         11      47.8          2      8.7          2      8.7
Biak-Na-Bato          17     50.0         11      32.4          5     14.7          1      2.9
Cabagnaan             17     34.0         23      46.0          7     14.0          3      6.0
Mansalanao             1      9.r          8      72.7          2     18.2
Camandag               1     14.3          4      57.1          2     28.6
Sag-Ang                3     33.3          5      55.6          1     11.1
Robles                                     1     100.0
Total       47     34.8          63     46.7          19     14.1          6      44
Table 5.2.13b    MPAFs' Source of Information About the Project
Source of Information About the Project
Barangay          LGUs        %       DPWH         %      Neighbors    %      Relatives    %
DEO                 /Friends
Masulog                8     38.1          7      33.3          6     28.6
Biak-Na-Bato          11    40.7           9      333           6    22.2           1      3.7
Cabagnaan             13     31.0         25     59.5           4     9.5           -        -
Mansalanao             4     15.4         19     73.1          3      11.5          -
Camnandag              2     25.0          5      63.5          1     12.5          -
Sag-Ang                       83           8      66.7          3    25.0           -
Total       39     28.7          73     53.7         23     16.9          1      0.7
As seen from these tables, 94.4% of the respondent-SPAFs are aware of the Project, and
that the main sources of information were the DPWH-DEO (46.7%) during the PCMs,
5-17



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
and their respective local officials (34.8%). Among the MPAFs, 96.6% expressed
awareness of the Project, and mentioned that their main sources of information are the
DPWH-DEO (52.8%) during the PCMs, and their local officials (28.9%). Other sources
of information include neighbors and friends, and relatives who attended the PCMs, and
relayed the information to them.
5.3   Impact Identification
Based on the Land Use and Vegetation Map of La Castellana, the La Castellana-Canla-on
City Road Project traverses four (4) main land uses types namely, (i) industrial,
(ii) agricultural, (iii) production forest, and (iv) built-up area. The entire land area of
Robles, except for its barangay proper (Poblacion) and some cogonal areas, is classified
as industrial (sugar cane crops). The roadway continues to pass through these industrial
areas up to Brgys. Sag-ang and Camandag. The portion of Brgy. Mansalanao through
which the roadway passes is classified as agricultural, and planted to food crops such as
rice, corn, vegetables, coffee, and coconut, with build-up areas when it reaches the
barangay proper. It then enters the MKNP at Brgy. Cabagna-an, and traverses a
reforestation area under the jurisdiction of the MKNP-PAMB. It is interesting to note
that it is within this PAMB-controlled reforestation area where the biggest population of
Brgy. Cabagnaa-an, as mentioned in Section 5.1.2 and Table 5.1.4 of this report, is
located. The rest of the alignment passes through Brgys. Biak-na-Bato and Masulog,
which are entirely classified as industrial, except for built-up areas in the respective
barangay propers.
5.3.1 Impact on the MKNP
Cutting of Prime Forest Trees
The roadway crosses the MKNP starting approximately from Sta. 78+220 at Brgy.
Cabagna-an, all the way up to the end of project, located at the approach of the Masulog
Bridge (-Sta. 89+140). A significant adverse impact of the Project to the MKNP would
be the cutting of prime forest species such as narra, molave, palsaingin, sambolaoan,
teak and-white lauan. Based on the 100% tree inventory conducted, a total of 2,190 trees
would be cut. A summary of the trees to be cut based on the inventory carried out along
the alignment is given in Appendix Dl.
In compliance with the DENR rules and regulations, regulated trees to be cut will be
replaced, by means of reforestation, using a 1:50 ratio. For non-regulated species, the
ratio is 1:5. The proposed Three-Year Work and Financial Plan for reforestation as
replacement for the trees to be cut along the La Castellana-Canla-on City road section is
5-18



San Ennque-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
included in this report as Appendix D2. Budget is estimated at P250,000.00. To provide
additional project benefit to the PAFs, it is strongly suggested that the reforestation
program be contracted out to the affected communities. As mentioned earlier, PAFs
who are recognized as tenured migrants inside the Park are also stewards of the land they
cultivate, and have been actively involved in the PAMB's reforestation programs. This
makes them the most qualified persons for this task.
Increased Accessibility to the Park
As mentioned in Sections 1.3 and 5.1.2 of this report, one of the main problems of the
MKNP-PAMB and the Municipality of La Castellana is the increasing number of human
settlements inside the Park. Once the project is implemented, accessibility to the Park
would improve, and as a result might worsen this problem. To mitigate this, the PAMB
is proposing to include the setting up of monitoring centers at each barangay, particularly
to prevent any form of encroachment to take place.
During one of the meetings with the officials of the PAMB, it was mentioned that
displacement of human settlements within the Park due to construction activities could be
viewed as a positive impact. This is in the sense that it would help maintain the Park's
integrity as a protected area by reducing the threats of illegal farming and extractive
activities. However, it was also emphasized during the said meeting that if relocation
outside the Park becomes necessary, fair resettlement and compensation packages must
be accorded to the families to be displaced.
Another possible adverse impact associated with improved accessibility is the
aggravation of illegal logging activities inside the Park. To mitigate this, the PAMB,
together with the LGUs of La Castellana, particularly the barangay officials of Cabagna-
an, Biak-na-Bato, and Masulog must exert extra effort in protecting the Park's remaining
forest cover.
5-19



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Caria-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
5.3.2 Impact on Land
Impact on land are mainly in terms of loss of industrial crops (sugarcane) because of the
(i) realignment of road sections, including bridges at Brgy. Robles (See Table 53.1a),
and (ii) at existing Right-of-Way, which are still covered by private land titles (unsettled
R-O-W issues) including acquisition due to cut sections at Brgys. Camandag,
Mansalanao, and Cabagna-an (See Table 5.3.1b).. It is important to note that "additional
R-O-W" here refers to cut sections that would exceed the existing 20-meter R-O-W.
All the areas to be traversed are titled private lands, and that each land take does NOT
exceed 20% of the respective total land area.
Table 5.3.1a     Land Acquisition at Realignment Sections
Name of Lot Owner             Land Use           Lot No.    Total Lot Area  Area to be     % to
(Based on       (m2)      Acquired (M2)   Total
Parcellary
Survey
Plan)
Barangay Robles'        ;                           -     .:, .
Juan Paolo Tantoco        Agricultural (sugar-cane)  475-C-2    334,511.00       6,467.00     1.93
Martina Perez de Tejido &  Agricultural (sugar-cane)  862-B-3    50,000.00       3,672.19     7.34
Antonio Vargas
Martina Perez de Tejido   Agricultural (sugar-cane)  862-C-2   1,177,678.35      8,940.27     0.76
(Not listed)              Agricultural (sugar-cane)  861-C       32,869.84       1,482.21     4.51
Ildefonso Coscollueta     Agricultural (sugar-cane)  863-A-3   1,053,654.56      8,215.28     0.78
Mariano Yulo              Agricultural (sugar-cane)  855-C     2,038,22031      18,304.87     0.90
Table 5.3.1b     Land Acquisition at Existing R-O-W, Including Cut Sections
Name of Lot Owner            Land Use           Lot No.    Total Lot Area   Area to be    % to
(Based on       (_2)         Acquired      Total
Parcellary                     (m2)
Survey
Plan
Canaandag/Sag-Ang :                               .     ..      . .. .  ..
Lorenzo Bajala            Agricultural (sugar-cane)  876-C      372,854.09     10,681.91      2.86
Joaquin Domingues &       Agricultural (sugar-cane)  884-C      292,100.51      4,860.85      1.66
Severo Debanda
Jose Gonzaga Y Chauco     Agricultural (sugar-cane)  877-C      206,407.11      4,998.85      2.42
Lucio Damasco             Agricultural (sugar-cane)  880-C      192,073.07      4,010.50      2.09
Jose Gonzaga Y Chauco     Agricultural (sugar-cane)  877-E      206,407.11      7,012.96      3.40
Balbino Lacson vs. Juan de  Agricultural (sugar-cane)  878-C     52,461.66      5,074.95      9.70
la5Vina
5-20



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 53.1b     Land Acquisition at Existing R-O-W, Including Cut Sections (Continued...)
Name of Lot Owner            Land Use           Lot No.   Total Lot Area   Area to be    % to
(Based on      (m2)         Acquired      Total
Parcellary                    (m2)
Survey
Plan
Camandag/Sag-Ang
Felix Robles              Agricultural (sugar-cane)  934-C'  22,348,900.02       56553       0.00
Felix Robles              Agricultural (sugar-cane)  934-D   22,348,900.02    15,171.00      0.07
Felix Robles vs Juan de la  Agricultural (sugar-cane)  1819-C  126,129.50      8,540.00       6.8
Vina
Felix Robles vs. Juan de la  Agricultural (sugar-cane)  1819-D  126,129.50     6,341.00       5.0
vina
Nilansalanao       .        .      -   :            . .                      .     ;
Felix Robles              Agricultural (sugar-cane)  934-E   22,348,900.02     1,731.00       0.0
Heirs of Andrea Malapitan  Agricultural (sugar-cane)  957-C   1,026,744.00    38,784.00       3.8
Heirs of Andrea Malapitan  Agricultural (sugar-cane)  915-C    101,157.00      3,816.00       3.8
Ricardo Nolan             Mixed agricultural and  1015         592,877.00     32,362.00       5.5
built-up area
Mun. of Pontevedra vs.    Mixed agricultural and  1931-C       159,742.25      7,757.00       4.9
Ciriaco Sema              built-up area
Co. Gral de Tabacos       Mixed agricultural and  956-C         85,769.43      7,791.72       9.1
Filipinas                 built-up area
Ricardo Nolan             Mixed agricultural and  1015            592,877     10,764.00       1.8
built-up area
Ricardo Nolan vs. Inst.   Agricultural (sugar-cane)  1933-C     98,190.28       946.00       0.9
Govt. & vs. Com. Gral de
Tabacos Filipinas
Ricardo Nolan vs. Inst.   Agricultural (sugar-cane)  1935-C    213,308.11      3,009.00       1.4
Govt.
Cabagna-an             .*,                       _____,_         -      -              - .
Felipe Lacson & Inst. Govt.  Agricultural (sugar-cane)  1097-D  1,653,055.41  15,298.19       0.9
vs NN Forest Res.
Felipe Lacson & Inst. Govt.  Mixed agricultural and  1097-E   1,653,055.41     7,118.36       0.4
vs NN Forest Res.         built-up area
5.3.3 Impact on Improvements
Structures
As mentioned in the previous section, there are a total of 150 SPAFs and 150 MPAFs.
Impact on the SPAFs would be in terms of the need to demolish their houses, market
stalls, and small sari-sari stores that are either contiguous or detached from the main
structures. The number of affected structures and types of material the dwellings are
made of are given in Table 5.3.2. The table shows that most of the materials used for
building these houses are light (39.3%), wooden (37.3%), and semi-concrete (17.3%).
5-21



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Reseltlement Action Plan
Only a few are made of concrete (6.0%). For the MPAFs, damages to be incurred are
limited to fences that are mostly made of bamboo or a combination of bamboo and
cyclone wire.
Table 53.2       Number and Type of Structure of SPAFs',Dweling Units to be Affected
Type of Structure
No. of     Light      %       Wooden      %       Semi-       %       Concrete     %
structures                                        Concrete
Masulog              28         7       25.0       12     42.9          6     21.4           3     10.7
Biak-Na-Bato         40        18      45.0         8     20.0         11     27.5           3      7.5
Cabagnaan            53        18       34.0       26     49.1          6     113            3      5.7
Mansalanao           12         8       66.7        3     25.0          1      83            -
Caunandag             7         3       42.9        4     57.1           -       -
Sag-Ang               9         4       44.4        3     33.3          2     22.2
Robles                1         1      100.0
Total       150        59       393        56     373          26     17.3           9      6.0
When asked about the ownership of the structures they occupy, 93.5% of the SPAFs
stated that they own the houses they dwell in; only 6.5% occupy the structures free of
charge (See Table 5.3.3).
Table 5.3.3    Structure Ownership of Severely Affected SPAFs
Tenure
Barangay               Owner                       Free          %
Occupation
with Permit
Masulog                    22          91.7            2           83
Biak-Na-Bato               32          86.5            5          13.5
Cabagnaan                  48          96.0            2           4.0
Mansalanao                  11        100.0             -            -
Camandag                    7         100.0             -            -
Sag-Ang                     9         100.0             -            -
Robles       T10.0                                      -            -
Total        130          93.5            9           6.5
5-22



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Crops and Trees
Aside from the houses, stalls, and fences that will be affected, fruit trees that will be cut
were also inventoried. A list of the number of fruit trees that will be cut during the pre-
construction period is presented here in Table 5.3.4 in terms of ownership by the SPAFs
and MPAFs.
Table 53.4 Trees to be Cut Along the Alignment
No. of Fruit Trees             No. of Forest Trees
Barangay               SPAFs'         MPAFs'           SPAFs'         MPAFs'
Masulog                    114             145            136              37
Biak-na-Bato               160            180              44              33
Cabagna-an                 375            463              65             152
Mansalanao                 169            223                              55
Camandag                    64             102              3               8
Sag-ang                    166             92              28              15
Robles                      12               -              -
Total       1,060           1,205             279             300
5.3.4 Impact on Income
As mentioned above, a number of market stalls and sari-sari stores will be affected by
the construction activities. Most of these are made of light and wooden materials. Table
5.3.5 shows the number of these commercial stalls and stores. This would entail losses in
income, particularly those who depend on these as their only source of income. Unlike
the stalls/stores that will be severely affected, disturbance to the MPAFs' structures
would only be in terms of losses in income due to disruption in form of partial to full
blockade of its access and frontage.
Table 53.5 Commercial Stalls and Sari-Sari Stores to
be Affected
No. of Stalls
Barangay               SPAFs'         MPAFs'
Masulog                      5              4
Biak-na-Bato                 9             13
Cabagna-an                  15             14
Mansalanao                   2              5
Camandag                     2              1
Sag-ang                      -              3
Robles                       -
Total          33              40
5-23



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (Li Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
5.3.5 Impact on Public Infrastructures
There will be 11 public infrastructure facilities (waiting sheds, barangay hall, and water
pipes) that would be severely affected. Only two (2) will be marginally affected. Please
see Table 5.3.6.
Table 5.3.6   Public Infrastructures to be Affected
Public Infrastructure
Barangay          Waiting   Brgy. Hall  Water    School
Shed                Pipe     Fence
Masulog             1 (M)
Biak-na-Bato
Cabagna-an                    I (S)
Mansalanao          8 (S)               I (S)
Camandag                                         1(M)
Sag-ang
Robles              I (S)                            -
Total      10         1        1         1
Note:  (S)- Severe
(M) - Marginal
5.4    Compensation and Entitlements
Computation of compensation rates and entitlements are based on the guidelines
stipulated in the DPWH LARR Policy of August 1999. For legitimate landowners,
compensation for loss of land is estimated based on the fair market values set by the
Independent Land Appraiser (ILA). Since there will be NO land acquisition aside from
the realignment sections in Brgy. Robles, and additional R-O-W at cut sections in Brgys.
Camandag, Mansalanao, and Cabagna-an, payment to the SPAFs in the other affected
barangays will be in terms of improvements and disturbance compensation only.
These include payments for: (i) structures (residential and commercial), (ii) fruit and
forest trees, and (iii) disturbance compensation. Aside from financial compensation and
assistance, the SPAFs will also be entitled to the following:
(i)    Make use of salvaged materials without deductions from the compensation
to be received;
(ii)   Subsistence allowance to those who have businesses affected due to severe
impact on structure; estimated income loss provided in this report are
subject to verification by the MRIC;
(iii)  Priority in hiring of qualified workers during the construction period;
5-24



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
(iv)  Provision of transportation assistance to SPAFs who need to be relocated;
(v)   When relocation becomes necessary, secured tenure status for relocatees
Payment to MPAFs shall include compensation to damages to improvements, which are
mainly fences and trees, as well as transitional allowance to cover for income loss during
the period the businesses were interrupted, without exceeding one (1) month. The
amount of transitional allowance will be determined by the MRIC.
Instead of cash compensation for damages to public infrastructure facilities such as
waiting sheds, barangay hall, water pipes, and school fences, it is recommended that the
Negros Occidental 2nd District Engineering Office undertake the necessary
construction and rehabilitation. To enhance the DEO's relationship with the affected
communities, this could be made into a joint effort wherein the District will provide the
materials and equipment, and the community, the available labor force.
Table 5.4.1 shows the Entitlement Matrix based on the LARR Policy, whereas Tables
5.4.2a and Table 5.4.2b show the compensation scheme for owners of land to be
acquired at realignment sections and at cut sections (additional R-O-W), respectively.
5-25



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person               Entitlement                           Compensation Amount
(PhP)
L.   Arable land    Actual area needed  Owners with full   For the portion of the land needed:    Agricultural (sugarcane) Land, flat to slightly sloping
by the road project  title, tax declaration  +Cash compensation equivalent to zonal  14 PAFs
27 PAFs         andithe remaining  or who are covered    value + 10%o (AO 50)                134,333.84 m2 x P20.00/r2 =   P2,686,676.80
land still         by customary law    + Topping-up supplement assistance    Agricultural (suzarcane). Undulating to rolling terrain
economically viable  (e.g., possessory   equivalent to the difference between to   Au s
rights, usufruct) or  the difference between the zonal value +  51010.72 e x P15.00/m=    P765,160.80
27 PAFs            other acceptable      10% and the fair market value in the area  ,0.      .                     .
proof of ownership    as established by the independent   Mixed Agricultural & Built-up Area:
appraiser to be hired by the independent  4 PAFs
27 PAFs               appraiser to be hired by the project  32,362.00 m2 x P60.00/r2    P1,941,720.00
+ Cash compensation for perennials of  14,875.36 m2 x p70.00/M2 =    P1,041,275.20
commercial value as determined by the  7,791.72 m2 x P75.00/r2=     P584,379.00
DENR or the concerned appraisal
committee
+ PAP will be given sufficient time to
harvest crops on the subject land
PAPs without title,  For the portion of the land needed:
tax declaration, or  + PAP will be given sufficient time to
are not covered by  harvest crops
customary law (e.g.,  + Cash compensation for perennials of
possessory rights,  commercial value as determined by the
usufruct) or other  DENR or the concemed appraisal
acceptable proof of  committee
ownership
N il                                                      _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person                Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Remaining land     Owners with full    + Cash compensation equivalent to zonal
becomes             title, tax declaration  value + 10% (AO 50) or, if feasible, land for
economically not    or who are covered  land will be provided in terms of a new
viable (i.g., PAP   by customary law   parcel of land of equivalent productivity, at a
losing >20% of land  (e.g., possessory  location acceptable to PAP, and with long-
holding or even    rights, usufruct) or  term security of tenure.
when losing <20%,   other acceptable   + Topping-up supplement assistance
but the remaining   proof of ownership  equivalent to the difference between the
land is not                            zonal value + 10% and the fair market value
economically viable  Nil              in the area as established by the independent
anymore)                               appraiser to be hired by the project
+ Subsistence allowance of PhP 15,000
Nil                                    + PAP will be given sufficient time to
harvest crops
+ Cash compensation for perennials of
commercial value as determined by the
DENR or the concerned appraisal
committee
+ If relocating, PAP to be provided free
transportation
+Rehabilitation assistance (skills training
and other development activities) equivalent
to Php 15,000 will be provided in
coordination with other government
agencies if the present means of lvelihood is
no longer viable and the PAP will have to
engage in a new income activity



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application      Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
PAPs without title, + Financial assistance equivalent to the
tax declaration, or average annual gross harvest for the past 3
are not covered by  years but not less than PhP 15,000
customary law (e.g., +PAP will be given sufficient time to
possessory  rights, harvest crops
usufruct) or other + Cash compensation for perennials of
acceptable proof of commercial value as determined by the
ownership          DENR    or  the  concemed   appraisal
committee
Nil                + Financial assistance to make up for land
preparation in the amount of PhP15O per
square meter
+ If relocating, PAP to be provided free
transportation
+ Rehabilitation assistance (skills training
and   other   development   activities)
equivalent to PhP 15,000 will be provided
in coordination with other government
agencies if the present means of livelihood
no longer viable and PAP wiU have to
engage in a new income activity
Agricultural lessees  As per RA 6389 and EO 1035:
.+ Disturbance compensation equivalent to
Nil                five times the average of the gross harvest
on the land holding during the five
preceding years but not less than PhP
15,000 will be provided in coordination
with other govenmment agencies if the
present means of livelihood is no longer
viable and the PAP will have to engage in
.____________  ._______________  .__________ _ . new   incom e  activity



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resetlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person               Entitlement                         Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Temporary use of All PAPs             + Compensation to be provided for loss of
land                                  income during the period, standing crops,
Nil                cost of soil restoration and damage structure
Nil
2.   Residential    Actual are needed  Owners with full   For the portion of the land needed:
land    and/or  by the road project title, tax declaration  + Cash compensation equivalent to zonal
commercial      and the remaining  or who are covered  value + 10% (AO 50)
land            land is still viable  by customary law  +  Topping-up  supplemental assistance
for continued use  (e.g.,  possessory  equivalent to the difference between the
Nil                               rights usufruct) or wnal value + 10% in the fair market value
other   acceptable in the   area  as  established  by  the
proof of ownership  independent appraiser to be hired by the
project
Determined by the DENR or the concemed
appraisal committee



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Applicaiion      Entitled Person               Entidement                           Compensation Amount
I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(PhP)
Remaining          Owners with full + Cash compensation equivalent to zonal
residential    or dtle, tax declaration  value + 10% open (AO 50) or, if feasible,
commercial   land  or who are covered  land for land will be provided in terms of a
becomes not viable  by customary law  new parcel of land of equivalent market
for continued use  (e.g.,  possessory  value, at a location acceptable to PAP, and
rights, usufruct) or long-term  security  of tenure.  The
other   acceptable replacement land should of acceptable size
proof of ownership  under zoning laws of a plot of equivalent
value, whichever is larger, in a nearby in a
resettlement area with adequate physical
and social infrastructure. When the affected
holding is larger in value than the relocation
plot, cash compensation will cover the
difference in value.
+Topping-up   supplemental  assistance
equivalent to the difference between the
zonal value + 10% and fair market value in
the area as established by the independent
appraiser to be hired by the project
+ Cash compensation for perennials of
commercial value as determined by the
DENR or the concemed appraisal
comnittee
+ If relocating, PAP to be provided free
transportation
Temporary use of Al PAPs              + Compensation to be provided for loss of
land                                  income during the period, standing crops,
cost of soil restoration and damaged
structures



San Enrique-Vailehermoso Road (La Castellana^Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5A.1      Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss       Application       Entitled Person                Entitlement                           Compensation Amount
I  _ _ _ _ _   I_                                                                                                  (PhP)
3.   Main structures  Structure, with or  Owners        of  + Compensation in cash for affected portion
(e.g.,  house, without a building   structures with full of the structure, including the cost of
house     cum   permit,   partiaUy  title   or    tax  restoring  the  remaining  structure, as
shop)           affected  and  the  declaration  to the  determined by the concemed appraisal
remaining structure  land or those who  committee with no deduction for salvaged
137 PAFs        is still viable for  are by customary  building materials.
continued use.      law (e.g., possessory  + PAPs who have business affected due to
rights, usufruct (or  partial impact on the structure are in titled to
Nil                 other   acceptable  a subsistence allowance for the loss of
proof of ownership  income during the reconstruction period.
(such will be verified and computed by the
Nil                 Municipal  Resettlement  Implementing
Committee or RIC.
Owners          of + Compensation in cash for affected portion
structures, including  of the structure including the cost of
shanty dwellers in  restoring  the  remaining  structure, as
urban areas, have no  determined by the concerned appraisal
title   or    tax   committee with no deduction for salvaged
declaration to the  building materials.
land   or    other  + Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to
acceptable proof of  go back to their place of origin in the
ownership           province or be shifted to governnent
relocation site will be provided free
Nil                transportation
+ PAPs who have business affected due the
partial impact on the structure are in titled to
a subsistence allowance for loss of income
during the reconstruction period. (such will
be verified and computed by the municipal
Resettlement Implementing Committee
RIC).
+ Professional squatters will not receive
compensation but they can collect their
________________    salvageable materials



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person                    Entitlement                               Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of + Given 3 month notice on the schedule of demolition
leased    affected  + If shifting is required, PAP is given transitional
structure, including  allowance equivalent to one month rent of a similar
renters of shanty  structure within the same area
dwellings in urban  + For house tenants renting structures outside of, or
areas              within the ROW, and who have to transfer elsewhere,
free transportation will be provided
Nil                + Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go
back to their place of origin in the province or be shifted
to government relocation site will be provided free
transportation
Entire    structure  Owners of structure  + Compensation in cash for entire structure at
affected OR when   with full title or tax  replacement structure cost as determined by the
the      remaining  declaration to the  concemed appraisal committee without deduction for
becomes not viable land or those who  salvage building materials.
for continued use, are       covered  + Inconvenience allowance Php 10,000 per PAP.
with or without a  customary law (e.g., +PAPs who have business affected due to severe impact
building permit    possessory  rights, on the structure are in titled to a subsistence allowance
usufruct) or other  for the loss of income during reconstruction period.
121 houses and     acceptable proof of (such will be verified and computed by the RIC
16   houses  with  ownership          + If relocation if necessary, free transportation will be
shops                                 provided
Nil                + Rehabilitation in the form of skills training and other
development activities and equivalent to PhP 15,000
will be provided in coordination with other govemment
agencies if the present means of livelihood (e.g., house
cum shop) is no longer viable in the PAP will have to
________________________________                       engage in a new  income activity



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person                    Entitlement                               Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Owners of structure, + Compensation for the entire structure at replacement Residential - 121 PAFs
including   shanty  cost as determined by  the concemed  appraisal Affected Structure:           P6,495,582.50
dwellers in urban  committee  without deducton  salvaged  building  Income Loss:
areas, have no title  material.                                    Relocation:                            n/a
or tax declaration to  + Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to go back to  Rehabilitation:            n/a
the land or other their place of origin in the province or be shifted to  Other (Trees)           P358,200.00
acceptable proof of government relocation sites will be provided free  Residential/Commercial -16 PAFs
ownership          transportaton                                   Affected Structure:           P2,090,905.00
+ PAPs who have business affected due to the severe  Income Loss:              P118,300.00
121 houses and    impact on the structure are in titled to a subsistence  Relocation:                     n/a
16 houses with     allowance for the loss of income during    the  Rehabiitation-                         iVa
shops to relocate  reconstructon period.  (such will be verified and  Reh an/a
computed by the RIC). ,Other                                                           na
+ If relocation is necessary, free transportation will be
provided
+ NO Rehabilitation assistance in the form of skills
training and other development activities wil be
provided in coordination with other government
agencies since the present means of livelihood (e.g.,
house cum shop) is still viable and the PAP wiU not
have to engage in a new income activity
+ Professional squatters will not receive compensation
_____________   _________________  _______________    but  they  can collect their salvageable materials _salvageable_materials



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5,4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      AppUcation        Entitled Person              Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of + Given 3 months notice on the schedule of
leased    affected  demolition
structure, including  + PAP is given transitional allowance
renters of shanty  equivalent to one month rent of a similar
dwelling in urban  structure within the same area
areas              + For house tenants renting structures
outside of, or within the ROW, and who
Nil                have   to  transfer  elsewhere,  free
transportation will be provided
+ Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas
who opt to go back to their place of origin
in the province or be shifted to govemment
relocation site ,will be provided free
transportation
+ Rehabilitation assistance in the form of
skills training and other development
activities and equivalent to PhP 15,000 will
be provided in coordination of other
government agencies if present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no
longer viable and the PAP will have to
engage in a new income activity
4.  Independent     Shops,   with  or Owners of structure  + Compensation in cash for affected portion
Shops          without    building  with or without full of the structure including the cost of
(structures)    permit,   partially title  or    tax  restoring  the  remaining  structure, as
affected  and  the  declaration to the  determine by  the concemed appraisal
17 PAFs        remaining structure land or those who  committee with no deduction for salvaged
are still viable for are  covered  by  building materials
continued use      customary law (e.g., + As determiined by the RIC, PAPs will be
possessory  rights  entitled to transitional allowance to cover
Nil                usufruct) or other for their computed income loss during the
acceptable proof of demolition and reconstruction of their
ownership          shops, but not to exceed a one month
period.
NilII



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person               Entitlement                         Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of  + As determined by the RIC, shop renters
affected shops     will be entitled to a transitional allowance to
cover for their computed income loss
Nil                during the period that their business is
interrupted
Entire shop affected  Owner of structure  + Compensation in cash for the entire  Commercial -17 PAFs
Or    when    the  with or without full structure at replacement cost as determined  Affected Structure:   P325,379.00
remaining structure title  or     tax  by the concerned appraisal committee  Income Loss:                   P79,400.00
becomes not viable  declaration to the  without deduction for salvaged building  Relocation:                       n/a
for continued use, land or those who  materials.                            Rehabilitation:                        n/a
with  or   without are   covered  by  + Subsistence allowance of PhP 15,000 to  Other                              n/a
building permit    customary law (e.g., each PAP
possessory  rights, Free transportation will be provided if
17 PAFs to relocate  usufruct or other  relocating
acceptable proof of  + Rehabilitation assistance in the form of
ownership          skills training and other development
activities and equivalent to PhP 15,000 will
17 PAFs to relocate  be provided in coordination with other
government agencies of the present means
of livelihood is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engaged in a new income
activity
+ Professional squatters will not receive
compensation but they can collect their
salvageable materials



San Enrique-ValUehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application      Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of + Given 3 months notice on the schedule of
affected shop      demolition
+ As determined by the RIC, shop renter
Nil                will be entitled to a transitional allowance to
cover for their computed income loss
during the period that their business is
interrupted but not to exceed 3 month
period.
+ If shifting, either permanently or
temporarily is required, shop renters are in
titled to free transportation
+ Rehabilitation assistance in the form of
skills training ii} the other development
activities and equivalent to PhP 15,000 will
be   provided  in  coordination  with
Vi                                                                          government agencies if the present means
e0i                                                                         of livelihood is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income
activity
5.   Other    fixed  Loss of, or damage  PAPs             + Compensation in cash for affected portion  Residential/Commercial - 144 PAFs
assets     or   to, affected assets,                  of the structure, including the cost of Affected Structure:           P73,920.00
structures      partially or entirely                 restoring  the  remaining  structure, as  Income Loss:                P95,750.00
determined by the concemed appraisal Relocation:                             n/a
144 PAFs        144 PAFs                             committee, with  no  depreciation  nor  Rehabilitation:                       n/a
deduction for salvaged building materials.  Other (Trees)            P467,543.00
6.   Electric and/or  Loss of, or damaged  PAFs           Compensation to cover cost of restoring the  Residential/Commercial -1 PAF
water          to, affected asset,                   facilities                             Affected Structure:             P50,000.00
connection     partially or entirely  (1) Water pipe to be                                  Income Loss:                           n/a
replaced                                                 Relocation:                            n/a
1 PAF           1 PAF                                                                      Rehabilitation:                         n/a
Other                                  n/a



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application      Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
7.   Public         Loss of, or damage  Concemed agencies  + Compensation in cash replacement cost to  Other Fixed Assets - 12 Public Facilities
Facilities     to,         public                     respective agencies                   Affected Structures:
infrastructure (e.g., 10 waiting sheds,  + To be reconstructed by DPWH DEO   Waiting sheds (10)            P750,000.00
12 PAFs        public water tanks, 1 barangay hail,                                          Barangay hall (1)             P350,000.00
tram lines, bus stop  1 school fence for                                      School fence                 P150p00.00
sheds,     loading  replacement                                              Total:                       P1,450,000.00
platform,   public
health     center,
barangay    center,
electric or telephone
lines, etc.)
10 waiting sheds,
1 barangay hall,
1 school fence



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5A.2a    Compensation Cost for Realignment Sections
Barangay             Name of Landowner      Lot No.    Area to be    Cost Based     Land
(Based on  Acquired (M2)    on       Acquisition
Parcellary               ILA (per       Cost
Survey)                    m 2)
Robles         Juan Paolo Tantoco           475-C       3,124.00     P20.00      P 62,480.00
Martina Perez de Tejido &    862-B-3     3,672.19     P20.00        73,443.80
Antonio Vargas
Martina Perez de Tejido      862-C-2     8,940.27     P20.00       178,805.40
(Not listed)                 861-C       1,482.21     P20.00        29,644.20
lidefonso Coscollueta        863-A-3     8,215.28     P20.00       164,305.60
Mariano Yulo                 855-C      18,304.87     P20.00       366,097.40
TOTAL                                               43,738.82                 P874,776.4
Table 5A.2b    Compensation Cost for Additional R-O-W, including Cut Sections
Barangay                                    Lot No.    Area to be    Cost Based       Land
Acquired (m2)     on       Acquisition Cost
ILA (per m2)
Camandag      Lorenzo Bajala                876-C      10,681.91      P20.00       P213,638.20
Joaquin  Domingues &  Severo  884-C      4,860.85        20.00         97,217.00
Debanda
Jose Gonzaga E. Chauco        877-C      4,998.85        20.00         99,977.00
Lucio Damasco                 880-C      4,010.50        20.00         80,210.00
Jose Gonzaga E. Chauco        877-E      7,012.96        20.00        140,259.20
Balbino Lacson vs. Juan de la Vina  878-C  5,074.95      20.00       P101,499.00
Felix Robles                  934-C        565.53        15.00          8,482.95
Felix Robles                  934-D     15,171.00        20.00        303,420.00
Felix Robles                  934-E      1,731.00        15.00         25,965.00
Mansalanao    Felix Robles vs. Juan de la Vina  1819-C  8,540.00       15.00        128,100.00
Felix Robles vs. Juan de la Vina  1819-D  6,341.00       15.00         95,115.00
Heirs o f Andrea Malapitan    957-C     38,784.00        20.00        775,680.00
Heirs o f Andrea Malapitan    915-C      3,816.00        15.00         57,240.00
Ricardo Nolan                 1015      10,764.00        15.00        161,460.00
Ricardo Nolan                 1015      32,362.00        60.00       1,941,720.00
Co. Gral de Tabacos de Fil;ipinas  956-C  7,791.72       75.00          584,379
Mun. Pontevedra vs. Ciriaco Serna  1931-C  7,757.00      70.00        542,990.00
5-38



San Ennque-Vallehennoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.2b     Compensation Cost for Additional R-O-W, including Cut Sections (Continued...)
Barangay                                         Lot No.     Area to be    Cost Based         Land
Acquired (m2)       on        Acquisition Cost
ILA (per m2)
Cabagna-an      Ricardo Nolan vs. Inst. Gov't. vs.  1933-C    946.00          15.00          14,190.00
Com. Gral de Tabde Filipinas
Ricardo Nolan vs. Inst. Gov't    1935-C      3,009.00         15.00          45,135.00
Felipe Lacson & Inst. Gov't. vs.  1097-D    15,298.19         15.00         229,472.85
NN Forest Res.
Felipe Lacson & Inst. Gov't. vs.  1097-E     7,118.36         70.00         498,285.20
NN Forest Res
TOTAL                196,634.82                      6,144,435A0
A summary of the fixed assets, improvements, and income to be affected, along with the
corresponding values of compensation for the SPAFs and MPAFs are provided in Tables
5.4.3 and 5.4.4, respectively. The estimated resettlement cost is provided as Table 5.4.5.
The Compensation Matrices for the SPAFs and MPAFs are attached as Appendix Al
and A2 (RAP Volume 2), respectively.
Table 5A3    Summary of Fixed Assets, Improvements, and Compensation for the SPAFs
Barangay          Floor Area  Replacement Cost   No. of   Estimated Value     Estimated     TOTAL COST
(1n2)                       Trees                       Income Loss
Masulog             875.02      P1,305,450.50      114      P 39,500.00       P51,750.00     P1,396,700.50
Biak-na-Bato       1,423.11      2,730,085.00      160        58,200.00        74,150.00      2,862,435.00
Cabagna-an         1,598.27      3,361,818.00      375        135,640.00       56,800.00      3,554,258.00
Mansalanao          242.82         321,411.00      169        53,740.00         6,000.00       381,151.00
Camandag            146.94         227,030.00       64         19,750.00         9,000.00      255,780.00
Sag-ang             326.64         636,693.00      166        48,470.00                -       685,163.00
Robles               24.00           4,000.00       12          2,900.00                         6,900.00
TOTAL              4,636.80     P8,586,487.50    1,060      P358,200.00      P197,700.00      P9,142,387.5
Table 5AA    Summary of Improvements and Compensation for the MPAFs
Barangay            Fence     Replacement Cost   No. of   Estiated Value     Estimated      TOTAL COST
Meas.                        Trees                      Income Loss
(nm)
Masulog                108        P21,880.00       145      P 42,730.00       P13,500.00      P78,110.00
Biak-na-Bato            52          10,920.00      180        49,020.00        35,500.00        95,440.00
Cabagna-an              74          15,240.00      463       178,993.00        31,750.00       225,983.00
Mansalanao             105          21,890.00      223        96,210.00         8,500.00       126,600.00
Camnandag                3            630.00       102        43,930.00         2,000.00        46,560.00
Sag-ang                 16           3,360.00       92        56,660.00         4,500.00        64,520.00
TOTAL                  358        P73,920.00     1,205      P467,543.00       P95,750.00      P637,213.00
5-39



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.5 Estimated Resettlement Cost
DESCRIPTION                 No.       UNIT        RATE        QTY.        AMOUNT         AMOUNT
P/UNIT                       Peso           USD
(Counterpart      (Loan
Fund)          Fund)
Compensation for Land and
Strucres and other fixed asets
Land
-   Agricultural            185,344.56  m2        15-20                23    3,451,837.60
-   Mixed Agricultural and   55,029.08  m2        60-75                 4    3,567,374.20
Builtup Areas
Structures (Residential and Shops)
-   Permanent                        9  No.       N/A         Actual
-   Semi-Permanent                  26  No.       N/A         estimates of
-   Temporary                      115  No.       N/A         replacement
150                         cost         Total =
8,586,48750
Other Fixed Assets
-   Residential fences            358   Inm       DEO sched   Actual            73,920.00
-   waiting sheds                   10  LAmp      N/A         estimates of     750,000.00
-   barangay hall                    1  sum       N/A         replacement      350,000.00
-   school fence                     1                        cost             150,000.00
Repair Cost:
-   Permanent                                     -                               -
-   Semi-Permanent              -
-   Temporary                   -
Loss of Electric and Water
Connections
-   Streetlights                     1            50,000/               1       50,000.00
-   Water lines                                   line
Crops/Trees
-   Arable crops                 2,265  Number    Based on          2,265      825,743.00
-   Tres/perennials               579   Number    Assessor's          579      250,000.00
and
DENR's
Schedule'
Sub-total 1                                                                      18,055,362.30
Supplemental Assistance'
("Topping-up')
Transitional allowance to cover         29   HH        (based on    Lump sum       293,450.00'
income loss for partially and                         actual
severely-affected house cum shops                      monthly
and partially-affected mdependent                      income)
shops
Subsistence Allowance (severely-        27   HIHs      10,000.00           27       270,000.00
affected shop owners withA/ithout
tide to the land)
Inconvenience Allowance (severely        -   HH        15,000.00            -               -
affected hose owners with land
title)
Cost of Replacement in form of reforestation
2To be computed based on the difference between the Assessor's Schedule of values vis-A-vis the ILA's appraisal
3FnlW value to be validated by the MRIC
5-40



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.4.5 Estimated Resettlement Cost (Continued ... )
DESCRIPTION                No.     UNIT      RATE         QTY.        AMOUNT          AMOUNT
P/UNIT                       Peso            USD
(Counterpart       (Loan
Fund)           Fund)
Financial Assistance (severely -          HH        15,000.00                                    _
affected settlers, de facto owners of
agricultural land, etc.)
Rehabilitation Assistance (severely-   -            15,000.00
affected PAFs)
Land Preparation Assistance                  mL         150.00
(marginally affected de facto owners of
agricultural land)
Disturbance Compensation (lessees)          HH      5 x
average of
five yrs
gross
income
Rent Allowance (severely affected      -  HH        Equivalent
house tenants)                                      to one (1)
month rent
Material transport allowance to      150  PAFs      2,000.00    15                 30,000.00
relocating PAFs                                     For fuel,
DPWH
trucks
Sub-Total 2                                                                       593,450.00
Relocaton Area (site development and      Lump
aocess road)                              Sum
External Monitoring and Post-             Lump                                                    2,000.00
Implementation Evaluation                 Sum
Fee of Independent Land Appraiser                                                  37,500.00
TOTAL                                                                          lX,C8C,312.30      2,000.00
Management Cost 6%                                 _                            1,121,178.74  _
Price contingencies 15%                -2802,946.84
GRAND TOTAL         P22,610,437.88       2,000.00
5-41



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
5.5     Relocation Sites at La Castellana
As previously discussed, one of the development concerns of the LGU of La Castellana is
to reduce the population growth in the barangays located within the MKNP. This is
aimed to reduce the vulnerability of the MKNP to further degradation due to human
intrusion. The same concern was expressed by the Park's Protected Area Superintendent
during a consultation meeting with him last 01 February 2001. Such being the case, both
the LGU and the PAMB are seriously working together on policies that would preserve
the integrity of the MKNP.
Although the PAMB recognizes the rights of tenured migrants4 inside the Park, it is
alarmed by its rapid population growth, and the possible increase in in-migration rate due
to the improvement of the national highway. This is why the Board is very steadfast
about its requisite to establish monitoring centers at each barangay in the MKNP5.
On the part of the LGU of La Castellana, this concern has been included in its CLUP for
the period, 1995-2005, wherein it proposed a land use plan for the MKNP. The said plan
conforms to the requirement of the NIPAS Act, which is to divide the protected area into
different management zones. Policies for the use of each zone shall be formulated in
coordination with the PAMB, and included in the revised Zoning Ordinance of the
Municipality. The proposed zones at the MKNP include the: (i) core protection zone
(.1,417 has.), (ii) restoration zone (.717 has.), (iii) sustainable use zone (-565 has.),
(iv) multiple-use zone (-540 has.), and (v) eco-tourism  zone (only a trail going up the
summit). In terms of allowed land uses, only the multiple-use zones will be permitted to
have human settlements in it.
Aside from the multiple-use zones inside the Park, other possible relocation sites include
the proposed Urban Expansion Areas at Brgys. Robles and Cabacungan (Please refer to
Figs. 5.1 and 5.2). The Shelter Plan of La Castellana as presented in its CLUP includes
provision of relocation sites for "displaced housing units", defined as those that are
"located in danger and uninhabitable areas or those living on land which is needed for a
major infrastructure or in areas where there is a court order for eviction and demolition".
This definition was derived from Vol. II of the Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board
(HLURB) Guidelines for Formulation/Revision of CLUP, 1998. In addition, the LGU of
La Castellana is also cognizant of Section 29 of Republic Act 7279, mandating LGUs to
4Section 4(l) of the NIPAS Act defines tenured migrant communities as 'communities within protected areas
which have actuaUy and continuously occupied such areas for five (5) yeaws before designation of the same as
protected areas in accordance with this Act and are solely dependent therein for subsistence". Chapter VIII,
Section 50 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of the Act recognizes the nghts of tenured migrants to
be eligible for stewardship of portions of land within the multiple use management or buffer zone of the protected
area, and from which he may derive subsistence. Migrants who would not qualify for the category tenure should
be resettled outside the protected area
542



San Enfique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
provide resettlement areas for affected households. At present, only residents located in
the danger zone of the MKNP were included in the shelter plan, considering that the
CLUP was drafted prior to the commencement of the NRIMP Project. Since the
definition also includes displacement because of major infrastructure improvement, PAFs
to be displaced at the MKNP5 can be considered eligible awardees of the shelter plan. In
fact, the possible need for a relocation site for families that will be displaced from the
Park has been taken up with Mayor Elumba during the first consultation meeting. The
Mayor assured the Project Team that the Municipality has available relocation sites at
Brgys. Robles and Cabacungan. The only problem is that they are still waiting for the
approval of the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) regarding the conversion of the
proposed areas for urban expansion from agricultural to built-up area. Although these
proposed sites are ideal for relocation because these are located outside the MKNP, the
conversion process may take time and cause unnecessary delays in the implementation of
the Project. Thus other options were considered.
In a recent meeting with Mayor Enrico R. Elumba of La Castellana, he informed the
DPWH-EIAPO, the Consultant, and key representatives of the Negros Occidental 2nd
Engineering District that there are other relocation sites, aside from those at Brgys.
Cabacungan and Robles, which are readily available to the SPAPs who would be
displaced. In fact, these are found -in each project-affected barangays, namely Brgy.
Masulog, Biak-na-Bato, Cabagna-an, Mansalanao, Sag-ang, and Camandag.. These areas
have been developed by the Municipality, and that water supply, electricity and access
road are available to the relocating PAFs. In fact, Barangay Resolutions from all
affected barangays committing the provision of relocation sites, including
electrification and development of water system in the said sites, were passed by each
concerned Barangay Council (Please refer to Appendix E3 for a copy of the said
Barangay Resolutions). These relocation sites are located at the center of these barangays,
and so are readily accessible to the relocating PAFs. As such, no relocation cost is
deemed necessary since the PAFs will be accorded the proper compensation for the
structures, aside from the materials that can be salvaged from their existing structures,
plus transportation assistance if necessary, that will enable them to rebuild their houses at
the relocation site (Please see Appendix E4 Photographs of the relocation sites).
5.6   RAP Implementation
5.6.1 Approval of the RAP
Approval of the RAP is expected in the month of June, 2001, after submittal to the
DPWH and the World Bank. It shall be implemented as soon as the approval from the
GOP and the World bank is received. The Negros Occidental 2nd Engineering District
5-43



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
shall implement the RAP, under an overall supervision of the PMO-IBRD, and guidance
and technical assistance from the EIAPO. The DPWH Region 6 Office will be the PMO-
IBRD and ElAPO's principal link with the DEO.
5-44



A
a       '''     W\La 
U-4.~~~~~
=  -  ''-C                                                                                                                   (71~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
d  -                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



GANVLA-ON VOLCANO
MOUNT KANLA-ON NA:"ONAL I RK
>  /   Jr   1   (,   :- >  ';- S  ,\ ~~~-80ang  mananaw.,,
,/f~~  X '  ' L   )  ; - ,  ~~ObO6rOtod  aCahaSan
) I J - ' < ~~~~~~~Cabanbanank 
N*hanun
MANRA:Y.AMNAO ALrIY, OF L CASTELLAL''A
PXOWF-- CE  OFaEObS  O C CI ''5',|,AM A S OL
Fig. 5.2  MAP O  PROPOSED URSA P XPANSION
546
f  X   -  Y       =      71 >   B*n      . ,. { ^~~~~~~~~~~~~agttLol
\   q   6   s> ~   ',}  -  .u.  I '   ~ 9  '  I  ; BaltAsay
f   1                j:l lf     t-,   1Y        -   - \
V   A  wy-    t;  s     -     )~~~~~~~~~~~Ta"n
~~~~~~~~~P         VKE OF HE S OCIDNTAL 
Fig 5.2  MA  OF PRPOE       URBA    EX PANPSION
BRGY. CABAClLNGAN
SCALE I:SDna=MTS.
5-46



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
5.6.2 RAP Implementation Activities
MOU Between DPWH and LGU
After receiving the approval to implement the RAP, a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) between the DPWH and La Castellana shall be executed to ensure commitment
of parties concerned.
Formation and Training of the RIC
The RIC consisting of the following shall be set up:
(i)   Mayor of La Castellana or designated representative;
(ii)  Representative of the PAFs
(iii) District Engineer or designated representative of the Negros Occidental
2nd District Engineering Office;
(iv)  Barangay Captains of Masulog, Biak-na-Bato, Cabagna-an, Mansalanao,
Camandag, Sag-ang, and Robles;
(v)   Representative from the MKNP-PAMB; and
(vi)  Representative from an NGO/PO operating in the area
Once the RIC is created, the EIAPO shall arrange for the conduct of a series of training
workshops at the district level. During these workshops, the members of the RIC will be
fully guided on LARR Policy and the proper implementation of the RAP in accordance
with the said Policy.
Establishment of Detailed Compensation Rates
Once the RIC is equipped with the necessary knowledge on RAP implementation, it will
start to review and if necessary, update the compensation rates for land, structures,
improvements, and other entitlements for the SPAFs and MPAFs.
Conduct of Public Information Campaign
The RIC will continuously conduct public consultation meetings so that the PAPs can be
updated on the latest developments regarding the implementation schedule and other
547



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
activities they should be involved in. The RIC must also constantly remind the PAPs to
prepare all the necessary documents pertaining to the settlement of compensation for
fixed assets.
Finalization of Compensation and other Entitlements of PAFs
The RIC will then visit each PAF to validate the inventory of affected assets, and confer
with the affected families regarding their concurrence to the updated estimates of the
compensation and entitlements that they will receive.  Once the PAF agree, a
Compensation Entitlement Form shall be accomplished, signed by PAP, and noted by the
concerned Barangay Captain. Any disagreements with respect to valuation of the
properties shall be recorded. The PAFs will also be informed about the grievance
procedure in case disagreements are not settled.
Public Meeting
Once the Compensation and Entitlement estimates have been completed for each PAF,
Public Meetings at the barangay level shall be held to inform the affected stakeholders
about the schedule of payments, relocation arrangements for those who would need to be
relocated, and the commencement of civil works.
Payment of Compensation and Other Entitlements
After completing all the necessary documents, the RIC shall request the concerned
barangay Captains to inform their constituent PAPs regarding the date, venue, and time
of the payment of compensation.
Implementation Schedule
The Implementation Schedule for the La Castellana-Canla-on City road section is
provided in Fig. 53.
5-48



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
Fig. 5.3 RAP Implementation Schedule
2002
RAP Implementation Acvtlvitles         May       June        July     August    September    October    November     December
1.   Approval of the RAP
11.  Formation and Training of RIC
111.  Public Information Campaign
IV.  Stakeout and Validation of Titles
V.   Finalize Inventory and
Compensation Rates
VI.   Public Meeting
VII.  Payment of Compensation and
Other Entitlements
VIII. Handling Over of the Site
IX.  External Monitoring
__ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _I__ _ _   I__ __ _I_ _           I       __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _



San Enrique-Vallehermoso Road (La Castellana-Canla-on City Section) Resettlement Action Plan
5.6.3 Administrative and Contingency Costs
Administrative and contingency costs to be incurred in the implementation of the RAP
are estimated as follows:
Table 5.6.1   Estimated Administrative and Contingency Costs
Activity                              Cost ltems                        Amount
A. Formation and training of the RIC  Logistics for EIAPO staff                       P 55,600.00
Logistics for Regional and DEO Staff               36,500.00
Allowances and per diem of members of the          94,500.00
RIC
Transportation Cost                                45,000.00
B. Updating/validation of affected  Logistics for EIAPO staff                          112,800.00
fixed assets and corresponding
compensation and entitlements
Logistics for Regional and DEO Staff              126,000.00
Allowances andper diem of members of the          189,000.00
RIC
Transportation Cost                                90,000.00
C. Conduct of public meetings                                                         250,000.00
Total                                                    999,400.00
D. Contingency                      + 10% Contingency                                     99,940
GRAND TOTAL                                                       1,099,340.00
5-50



