RP24
9                         Volume 10
REPUBUC OF THE PHIUPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HIGHWAYS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE FOR IBRD
NATIONAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT
PROJECT - PHASE I (NRIMP-I)
DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGN AND PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUENTS
FOR REHABILITATION OF
C)
KABANKALAN-BASAY ROAD (CW.RU-1.6 A)
w
HINOBAAN-BASAY SECTION                o
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(Volume 516)
MAIN TEXT
JUE202       FILE COPY
JUNE 2002
1 'KATAHIRA & ENGINEERS INTERNATIONAL
in association with
ilaicrow HALCROW GROUP LIMITED            TECHNIKS GROUP CORPORATION
41s :1>DCCD ENGINEERING CORPORATION      MULTI-INFRA KONSULT, INC.






TABLE OF CONTENTS
List of Appendices
List of Tables
List of Figures
Acronyms and Abbreviations
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1     PROJECT DESCRIPTION .....................................................  1-1
1.1 Location and Condition of the Existing Roadway
2     RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES ..................................................... 2-1
2.1  The DPWH LARR Policy
2.2  Basic Principle of the RAP
2.2.1 Cut-Off Date for Census
2.2.2 Compensation Scheme
2.2.3 Modes of Compensation
2.2.4 Rejection of Government Offer
2.2.5 Formation of Rap Implementation Committee
2.2.6 Grievance Procedures
3     METHODOLOGY ..................................................... 3-1
3.1  Orientation of Regional and District Engineering Offices (DEOs)
3.2  Consultation Meeting with LGUs
3.3  Training of Enumerators for the DEOs
3.4  Barangay Level Public Consultation Meetings
3.5  Tagging of Project Affected Structures and Taking of Photographs
3.6  Census and Socioeconomic Survey
3.7  Data processing and Analysis
4     PROCEEDINGS OF PUBLIC CONSULTATION MEETINGS                  ..   4-1
4.1  Project Stakeholders
4.2  The Project Team
4.3  Mechanisms for Stakeholder Participation
5     RESET.7LEMENT ACTION PLAN              ....................................... 5-1
5.1 - Characterization of Geo-Political Units
5.1. Hinoba-an and Basay, The Host Municipalities
-   Demographic Characteristics
.. -  Socioeconomic Characteristics
51:-12 The Host Barangays
5.2  S.cioecnomic Profile of PAPs
5.2.1 Demography and Basic Information
Household Size



Educational Attainment
Residence History
5.2.2 Socioeconomic Characteristics
Primary Occupation
Household Income
Sources of Income
Household Expenditures
Availability of Basic Social Services
5.2.3 Project Awareness
5.3 Impact Identification
5.3.1 Impact on Land
5.3.2 Impact on Improvements
Structures
Crops and Trees
5.3.4 Impact on Income
5.3.5 Impact on Public Structures
5.4 Compensation and Entitlements
5.5 Possible Relocation Sites at Hinoba-an and Basay
5.6 Rap Implementation
5.6.1 Approval of the RAP
5.6.2 Rap Implementation Activities
MOU Between DPWH and LGU
Formation and Training of the RIC
Establishment of Detailed Compensation rates
Conduct of Public Information Campaign
Finalization pf Compensation and Other Entitlements of PAPs
Public Meeting
Payment of Compensation and Other Entitlements
Implementation Schedule
5.6.3 Administrative and Contingency Costs



LIST OF APPENDICES
(Volume 2 of RAP Report)
Appendix Al    Compensation and Entitlement Matrix for SPAPs
Appendix A2    Compensation and Entitlement Matrix for MPAPs
Appendix B     Proceedings and Attendance Sheets of the Consultative Meeting
and PCMs
Appendix C     RAP Survey Instrument
Appendix Dl    Photographs of SPAPs
Appendix D2    Photographs of MPAPs
Appendix E     Sketch Maps of PAPs' Location
Appendix F     Municipal Resolution for Resettlement Site (Municipality of Hinobaan)



LIST OF TABLES
Summary Table Showing Total Compensation and Entitlement Cost
4.1            Issues and Concerns Raised During the PCMs
5.1.1           Comparative Population Densities at the Provincial, Municipal, and
Barangay Levels
5.2.1           Distribution of SPAPs, MPAPs, and Public Infrastructure Facilities by
Barangay
5.2.2a          Household Size of SPAPs
5.2.2b          Household Size of MPAPs
5.2.3a          Educational Attainment of SPAPs
5.2.3b          Educational Attainment of MPAPs
5.2.4a          Residence History of SPAPs
5.2.4b          Residence History of MPAPs
5.2.5           Primary Occupation of SPAPs
5.2.6a          Household Income of SPAPs
5.2.6b          Farm Income of SPAPs
5.2.6c          Non-Farm Income of SPAPs
5.2.7           Average Annual Household Expenditures of SPAPs
5.2.8           Type of Lighting of SPAPs Dwelling Units
5.2.9           Source of Water Supply of SPAPs
5.2.10          Type of Toilet Facilities of SPAPs
5.2.11          Type of Fuel Used by Severely Affected PAPs
5.2.12a         Project Awareness of SPAPs
5.2.12b         Project Awareness of MPAPs
5.2.13a         SPAPs Source of Information About the Project



5.2.13b        MPAPs Source of Information About the Project
5.3.1          Number and Type of Structure of SPAPs Dwelling Units to be Affected
5.3.2          Structure Ownership of Severely Affected SPAPs
5.3.3          Trees to be Cut Along the Alignment
5.3.4          Commercial Stalls and Sari-Sari Stores to be Affected
5.3.5          Public Infrastructures to be Affected
5.4.1          Entitlement Matrix
5.4.2a         Compensation Cost for Realignment Section
5.4.2b         Compensation Cost for Additional R-O-W, Including
Embankment and Bridge Approach Sections
5.4.3          Summary of Fixed Assets, Improvements, and Compensation
for the SPAPs
5.4.4          Summary of Improvements and Compensation for the MPAPs
5.4.5          Estimated Resettlement Cost
5.6.1          Estimated Administrative and Contingency Costs



LIST OF FIGURES
5.1         RAP Implementation Schedule



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AO              Administrative Order
BIR             Bureau of Internal Revenue
DENR            Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DEOs            District Engineering Offices
DPWH            Department of Public Works and Highways
DPWH-EIAPO      Department of Public Works and Highways-Environmental Impact
Assessment Project Office
EDT             Engineering Design Team
EO              Executive Order
IBRD            International Bank for Rural Development
ILA             Independent Land Appraiser
LARR           land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation
LGUs            Local Government Units
MPAPs           Marginally Project Affected Persons
MPDC            Municipal Planning and Development Coordinator
NRIMP           National Road Improvement and Management Plan
PAFs            Project Affected Families
PAPs            Project Affected Persons
PCM             Public Consultation Meeting
RAP             Resettlement Action Plan
RIC             RAP Implementation Committee
RO              Regional Office
ROW           ---Right-Of-Way
SPAPs           Severely Project Affected Persons



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Project Description
The Hinobaan-Basay road section has a total length of 32.37 kilometers. It starts at Km
190+220.40, at Brgy. 2, Poblacion, Municipality of Hinoba-an and ends at Km 228+779.60
at Brgy. Poblacion, Basay. It traverses eight (8) barangays of Hinoba-an, namely: Barangays
Poblacion, Pook, Alim, Asia, Bulwangan, Daug, Culipapa, and Sangke, and three (3)
barangays of Basay, namely: Bongalonan, Bal-os, and Poblacion.
The existing national road is predominantly consists of 26.162 km of gravel road in bad
condition, and 6.21 km  PCC pavement, which varies from fair to good condition.
Improvement works are envisioned to require 100 mm thick asphalt concrete, 150 mm
crushed gravel base, and 200 mm granular subbase.  The above-mentioned existing
pavement will be overlaid with 75 mm thick asphalt with additional shoulder construction
works and drainage facilities.
There are nine (9) existing bridges where additional riprap protection works are
recommended, in addition to the 75 mm asphalt-concrete overlay work. Aside from these,
six (6) new bridges are being planned for construction.
Rationale and Objectives
The DPWH Resettlement Policy was formulated to provide the guidelines that will govern
the implementation of road projects under the World Bank-assisted First National Roads
Improvement and Management Program (NRIMP). Aside from effectively managing,
financing, and completing the national road network into an all-weather standard, the
Program's main thrust is to ensure that pre-operating sustainable conditions are maintained
The main objectives for the preparation of the RAP are:
(i)   So that adverse social and physical impacts are avoided, minimized, and or
mitigated;
(ii)  That everybody, particularly the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) will benefit
from the Project;
(iii) PAPs are provided with sufficient compensation and assistance for lost assets
which will assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-project
standard of living; and
(iv)  Project stakeholders (which include PAPs) are consulted regarding the
Project's design, implementation, and operation.



Methodology
The procedures undertaken in preparing the RAP are in agreement with the Resettlement
Policy. These are the:
(i)   Orientation of Regional and District Personnel;
(ii)  Preliminary site investigation
(iii)  Consultation meetings with concerned LGUs;
(iv)  Barangay level Public Consultation Meetings (PCMs)
(v)   Tagging of project affected structures
(vi)  Conduct of social impact and land acquisition assessment; and
(vii)  Data processing and analysis.
Public Consultation Meetings
Eleven (11) barangay level PCMs were conducted within the period from 24 January 2001
to 03 February 2001. During each PCM, a brief description of the project, followed by the
basic principles of the Resettlement Policy was presented to the stakeholders. In
summary these are:
(i)   The Hinobaan-Basay Road section is a project of the DPWH under the World
Bank-assisted National Roads Improvement and Management Program
(NRIMP)
(ii)  The Resettlement Policy is initially applicable only to road projects under the
NRIMP
(iii) -The RAP would include the identification of adverse environmental and social
impacts and the recommendation of corresponding mitigating, the census and
socio-economic survey of PAPs, and the determination of compensation and
entitlements to the PAPs.
(iv)  The-identification of project-affected structures was still preliminary until the
detailed engineering design is completed;



(v)   The standard width of the road, following IBRD guidelines, is 12.7 meters,
(vi)  There would be a Cut-Off Date for identifying affected structures, after
which any additional or new construction will not be entitled to any
compensation;
(vii)  Structures with stickers bearing the tag number and the letter "S" refer to
structures that would be severely affected, whereas those with the letter "M"
would refer to structures with marginal disturbance;
(viii) For fixed assets that would be demolished, PAPs will be compensated 100%
prior to dernolition;
(ix)  PAPs must vacate their properties seven (7) days after full payment is
received whether the project will be immediately implemented or not;
(x)   Compensation for land would be based on the fair market value set by an
Independent Land Appraiser (ILA);
(xi)  For fixed assets, compensation would be based on replacement cost;
(xii)  That RAP Implementation Committees (RIC) for each municipality will be
formed, with representation from the PAPs;
(xiii) That grievances arising from any aspect of the Project (except land valuation)
can be ventilated through the RICs
Main issues raised during the PCMs include:
(i)   They strongly support the Project even though it will entail some form of
sacrifices on their part;
(ii)  That compensation be based on the actual dimension and type of materials
that the structures are made of, instead of a flat rate;
(iii)  The seven (7) days given to the PAPs to vacate their properties after full
payment is not sufficient for building a new house, particularly for semi
concrete to concrete structures
(iv)  If the houses within the MKNP will also be compensated even if they don't
own the land;
(v)   If there will be compensation for fruit trees to be cut, and crops to be damaged,
and what will be the basis for payment;
id



(vi)  If there will be a relocation site do the relocatees need to pay for the land;
(vii) If landowners could recover salvaged materials
Resettlement Action Plan
The Affected Municipalities
The municipal economy of Hinoba-an is agriculture-based with rich marine and mineral
resources. As previously mentioned, agricultural land measures 10,302 hectares or 24.85%
of its total land area, whereas fishponds make up 200 hectares, or 0.48%  of the
Municipality's land area. Farming and fishing are the main sources of income, with minor
inputs from the mining and other industrial activities in the area.
Basay's major agricultural products include, rice, corn, coconut, and bananas. It is classified
as a 4h Class municipality during the July 1993 reclassification. Its municipal gross income
was registered as P10, 027,959.46 in 1994, and P15, 328,346 in 1997.
The PAPs
Based on the LAA, there are a total of 123 severely affected persons and families. Of these,
58 are severely affected in terms of land only (no structures), 57 will just reorganize (i.e.,
move at adjacent lot), and only eight (8) are for relocation.  There are 297 persons and
families and three (3) public infrastructure facilities that will be marginally affected. For
ease of discussion, PAPs who will be severely affected will be referred to in this report as
SPAPs; those who will just be marginally affected, MPAPs
Compensation and Entitlements
The following table shows a summary of the compensation and entitlement costs for the
SPAPs and MPAPs.
iv



Summary Table Showing Total Compensation and Entitlement Cost
Municipality/. No. of  Improvement  No, of   Improvement       Land       Replacement  TOTAL COST
Barangay     SPAPs       Cost       MPAPs       Cost        Acquisition    of Public
(Structures,           (Strcttus,        Cost       Infra, and
Trees)                 Trees)                     AUowances
Poblacion       9      632,820.00      7      347,910.00       9,698.00                   774,42800
Pook            10     196,100.00      5       49,980.00   2,091,998.00                  2,298,078.00
Alim            8      529,190.00     20       58,530.00      37,296.00                   623,016.00
Asia           20      668,140.00    109      945,416.00     201,492.00   300,000.00     1,577,548.00
Bulwangan      11      279,770.00     30      636,029.00      70,076.00   350,000.00      815,875.00
Daug           14     1,823,640.00    36      183,580.00       4,400.00    75,000.00     2,030,620.00
Culipapa       37     2,351,250.00    47      890,538.00      76,773.50            -     2,3,561.50
Sangke          2       45,000.00     35      290,352.00      94,740.00            -      360,432.00
Bongalonan      10     234,594.00      7       97,352.00               ___                247,216.00
Bal-os           1      13,400.00       -              -
Poblacion        1      38,340.00       1       2,640.00              _       _            40,980.00
Tiunsitional                                                             1,328,93260     1,328,932,60
& Subsistece
Allowances
TransporL                                                                  30,000.00       30,000.00
Allowance                      .
Fee of Independent Land Appraiser ([LA)                                                    37,500.00
External Monitoring and Post Inplementation Evaluation                                     S2,000.00
TOTAL       i 123    P,812,44.00      297   P3,502,327.00  P2,586,473.50  2,083,932.60  P15,02277.10
Management Cost, 6%                                                                       901,348.63
Price contingencies, 15%                                                                 2,253,371.57
GRAND TOTAL P18,177,197.30
S2,000.00
Possible Relocation Sites
Out of the 123 identified SPAPs, 58 are severely affected in terms of land and structures,
wherein the PAPs would just reconstruct their abodes within their remaining property; 57
will just reorganize (ie., move at adjacent lot, using salvaged materials), and only eight (8)
are for relocation. Reorganization of the 57 PAPs would not be difficult since the
Municipality and the respective private land owners are willing to allow these people to just
reconstruct their abodes in adjacent lots within the built-up area With respect to the eight
(8) PAPs who will be relocated, it has been agreed upon between the Municipal Officials of
v



Hinoba-an and the EIAPO, represented by Ms. Criste Navida that each of them will be
assured a site for relocation, in each affected barangay.
RAP Implementation
RAP Implementation is expected to be between May to November 2001. The budget for
RAP Implementation is estimated at P1,551,900.00.
vi



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 1.            PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1   Location and Condition of Existing Roadway
The Hinobaan-Basay road section starts at Km. 190+220.40, located at the end of the
newly constructed IBRD-HMP Contract Package No. 3, at the second approach of the
existing Hinobaan Bridge at the Municipality of Hinoba-an, Negros Occidental. It heads
in a southeasterly direction, traversing through flat, rolling, and mountainous terrain.
From Brgy. 2, Poblacion, in Hinobaan, it traverses seven (7) more barangays namely,
Pook, Alim, Asia, Bulwangan, Daug, Culipapa, and Sangke. It then passes through the
administrative and political boundary between Hinobaan, Negros Occidental and Basay,
Negros Oriental. It then proceeds through the barangays of Bongalonan and Bal-os,
until at reaches Km 222+149.6 at Brgy. Poblacion, Basay. The Hinobaan-Basay Road
Section has a total length of 32.37 kilometers
The existing national road is predominantly consists of 26.162 km of gravel road in bad
condition, and 6.21 km PCC pavement, which varies from fair to good condition.
Improvement works are envisioned to require 100 mm thick asphalt concrete, 150 mm
crushed gravel base, and 200 mm granular subbase. The above-mentioned existing
pavement will be overlaid with 75 mm thick asphalt with additional shoulder
construction works and drainage facilities.
There are nine (9) existing bridges where additional riprap protection works are
recommended, in addition to the 75 mm asphalt-concrete overlay work. These bridges
are listed below:
Name of Bridge              Station Location  Span (m)
(i)  Manalimsim Bridge        195+262.97          14.45
(ii)  Cawilan Bridge          197+908.80          10.00
(iii) Bongat Bridge           199+562.35          21.00
(iv) Bulwangan Bridge         203+885.63          26.00
(v)  Daug 1 Bridge            206+936.00          15.00
(vi) Culipapa Bridge          210+050.91          71.00
(vii) Balugo Bridge           212+282.70          15.00
(viii) Sangke Bridge          215+253.95          31.00
(ix) Tiabanan Bridge          219+800.35          75.00
1-1



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                             Resettlement Action Plan
Six (6) new bridges are being planned for construction. These are:
Existing Condition     Proposed Improvement
Name of Bridge        Location
Length      Type      Length            Type
(i)  Batilo Bridge         193+068.50    6.0 m.      RCS      25.00 m          RCDG
(ii)  Maabon Bridge        196+103.55    12.0 m      RCS      25.00 m          PCDG
(iii) San Bastian Bridge   198+734.05     6.0 m      RCS      21.66 m          RCDG
(iv)  Asia Bridge          200+615.25    14.0 m      RCS      37.50 m    3-span RCDG
(v)  Camandangan Bridge    210+317.33   23.7 m.      RCS      15.80 m          RCDG
(vi)  Bongalonan Bridge   216+987.30      9.0 m      BLY      18.80 m          RCDG
Note: RCS - Reinforced Concrete Slab
BLY - Bailey
RCDG - Reinforced Concrete Deck Girder
PCDG - Pre-stressed Concrete Deck Girder
Aside from these structures, 18 box culvert structures and various drainage facilities will
also be provided at different points along the stretch of the Hinobaan-Basay Road.
1-2



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 2.         RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
2.1   The DPWH LARR Policy
The DPWH Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation (LARR) Policy or simply
called the Resettlement Policy was formulated to provide the guidelines that will govern
the implementation of road projects under the National Roads Improvement and
Management Program (NRIMP). Aside from effectively managing, financing, and
completing the national road network into an all-weather standard, the Program's main
thrust is to ensure that pre-operating sustainable conditions are maintained. This simply
means that the Departmenit must take into full consideration the environmental and social
concerns associated with infrastructure development.  Specifically these concerns
include: (i) involuntary resettlement; (ii) public consultation and participation; and
(iii) protection of marginalized and vulnerable groups.
In addressing such concerns, the Department ensures that the following objectives are
met from the pre-feasibility up to the implementation stage of NRIMP projects:
(i)   Adverse social and physical impacts are avoided, minimized, and or
mitigated;
(ii)  Everybody, including Project Affected Persons will benefit from the
Project;
(iii)  PAPs are provided with sufficient compensation and assistance for lost
assets which will assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-
project standard of living; and
(iv)  Project stakeholders (which include PAPs) are consulted regarding the
project's design, implementation, and operation.
The Resettlement Policy defines any person, or persons, household, a firm, or a private or
public institution that will be adversely affected, whether temporarily or permanently by
the project, as Project Affected Persons (PAPs). Project Affected Families (PAFs), on
the other hand pertains to PAPs residing under one roof and operating as a single
economic unit. The Policy also renders a deeper meaning to "Resettlement" to mean "all
measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse social impacts of a project on the PAPs,
including compensation and relocation as needed". To ensure that the above-mentioned
objectives are met, Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) are prepared for all road projects
undertaken by the DPWH under the NRIMP.
2-1



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
2.2   Basic Principles of the RAP
The following guidelines, as prescribed in the Resettlement Policy, served as the basic
principles behind the preparation of this RAP.
2.2.1 Cut-Off Date for Census
During the conduct of barangay-level Public Consultation Meetings (PCMs), the concept
of the Cut-Off Date for identifying eligibility of PAPs for compensation was emphasized
to the participants. It was clearly explained that the Cut-Off Date would be the last day
of the census survey, and that any structure that will be built after the said date would not
be qualified for payment. The PAPs were informed that they would be photographed in
front of their houses and improvements; complete with tag numbers that match the
numbers indicated on the stickers posted on the wall of their houses. They were also
advised not to make any renovations nor improvements on the tagged structures as the
payment would be based on what would be seen in the photographs and recorded in the
survey instrument, and not on any other improvement.
2.2.2 Compensation Scheme
Compensation schemes for land and fixed assets are provided for in the LARR Policy
through a combination of World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 and Operational
Policy 4.12, and the Philippine Government's existing applicable laws, Executive Orders,
Administrative Orders, and Department Orders. Impact on the PAPs in terms of land and
fixed assets is of two types namely, severe and marginal.
Severely affected lands are those wherein the land take is greater than 20% of the total
land area. If the land take is less than 20% of the total area, then the effect is marginal.
In the same manner, if an entire structure or fixed asset will be damaged or even if it's
not the entirety but the remaining structure becomes not viable for continued use, the
impact is also -considered severe. On the other hand, structures that would be affected but
with remaining portion still viable for continued use are considered marginally affected.
PAPs with severely affected land and fixed assets are entitled to full compensation in
cash for the entire property. For marginal cases, compensation would be determined by
the amount equivalent to the partial loss of assets, be it in form of land or structures. This
would also be paid in cash.
Details on the schedule of payment for severely and marginally affected land and fixed
assets, presented in form of a compensation matrix is provided in this report as Appendix
A.
2-2



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
2.2.3  Modes of Compensation
In accordance with the LARR Policy, the modes of compensation for severely and
marginally affected PAPs would be as follows:
(i)   Payment to losses equivalent to the amount of materials and labor for re-
constructing a similar structure for houses and other fixed structures with
NO deductions for salvaged materials;
(ii)   Compensation based on replacement cost (i.e., cost of materials and labor
at the time of estimation) for the loss of fixed assets;
(iii)  "Land for land" type of compensation, wherein the replacement of the
affected land would be by another land of equivalent productive value at a
location acceptable to the PAP. If land is not available, cash representing
the value of the land would be paid to the PAP;
(iv)  Disturbance compensation to lessees of agricultural land affected by the
Project, which is equivalent to five (5) times the average gross harvest
during the last five (5) years.
Other forms of resettlement assistance to be provided by the DPWH to eligible PAPs are
also found in Appendix A.
2.2.4 Rejection of Government Offer
In the event the PAP rejects the compensation package offered by the DPWH, the
Department can initiate expropriation proceedings in accordance with Administrative
Order No. 50 (A. 0. 50). While the case is being tried in court, DPWH can proceed with
the construction works, provided that a deposit equivalent to the whole amount being
offered by the Department as compensation is deposited in an escrow.
Other details on the compensation scheme to be adopted, such as additional resettlement
assistance that DPWH must provide eligible PAPs are also included in Appendix A.
2.2.5  Formation of a RAP Implementation Committee
For successful implementation of the RAP, a body consisting of the key stakeholders of
the Project is necessary. A RAP Implementation Committee will be set up during the
project implementation stage.  For this Project, the Negros Occidental 3rd District
Engineering Office will be the principal and regular representative of the DPWH in the
RIC to be formed. Close coordination between the RIC, Region 6, and the DPWH
Central Office will be ensured.
2-3



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
In accordance with the LARR Policy the RIC will have the following tasks:
(i)   Assist in the validation of PAPs, including their assets that will be affected by
the Project;
(ii)  Assist in implementing the RAP;
(iii)  Assist in public information  campaign, public participation  and
consultation;
(iv)  Assist the DEO in the payment of compensation to PAPs;
(v)   Receive complains and grievances from PAPs and other stakeholders and
act on them accordingly;
(vi)  Maintain record of all public meetings, complaints, and actions taken to
address complaints and grievances;
(vii)  Assist in the enforcement of laws/ordinances regarding encroachment into
the project road corridor, in coordination with concerned government
authorities
2.2.6  Grievance Procedures
If there will be grievances arising from any aspect of the Project, these will be handled
through negotiations following the succeeding procedures:
(i)   PAPs may file their grievances to the RIC, who in turn must properly
document the complaint and act on it within 15 days upon receipt of the
said complaint (this does not include those cases wherein the grievance
pertains to the valuation of affected assets, since such cases should be
decided upon by proper courts);
(ii)  If no understanding or amicable solution is reached, or if the PAP do not
receive a response from the RIC within 15 days of registry, the
Cbmplainant can appeal to the Office of the DPWH Regional Director
which should act on the complaint/grievance within 15 days from the day
of -its filing;
2-4



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                            Resettlement Action Plan
(iii)  If the PAP is not satisfied with the Office of the DPWH Regional Director
Office's decision, he can submit the said complaint to a court of law
The PAPs shall be exempted from all administrative and legal fees incurred in pursuant to
the grievance redress procedures.
2-5



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                         Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 3          METHODOLOGY
The procedures undertaken in preparing the RAP are in agreement with the LARR Policy
and are briefly described in this chapter. These are: (i) orientation of Regional and
District Personnel; (ii) preliminary site investigation (iii) consultation meeting with
concerned LGUs; (iv) barangay level public consultation meetings; (v) tagging of project
affected structures; (vi) conduct of social impact and land acquisition assessment; and
(vii) data processing and analysis.
3.1    Orientation of Regional and District Engineering Offices (DEOs)
Orientation of the Regional and District Engineering Offices was held on 12 December
2001 at the DPWH Region VI Office at Iloilo City. The meeting was presided by Ms.
Olive Baguio of the ElAPO.   Participants include representatives from the Negros
Occidental 2nd and 3rd District Engineering Office, and Region VI.
we-~~~~~~~~- _                         .,'_.jr---     ~   a    ;,j
Engr. Olive Baguio of the DPWH-EIAPO, and  Participants to the Orientation Meeting at the
Engr. Claro Cesario Moscoso, Chief of the  DPWH Region 6 Conference Room
Planning & Design Division, DPWH Region 6
During the orientation it was also learned the prevailing Right-of-Way is set at 20 meters
for both the La Castellana-Canlaon City Road and the Hinobaan-Basay Road, although
some portions in La Castellana, particularly those inside the Mt. Kanlaon National Park
(MKNP) are limited to a 15-meter R-O-W.
3-1
Taken at Sitio Old Fabrica, Brgy. Cabagna-an



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                   Resettlement Action Plan
3.2     Consultation Meeting with the LGUs
In preparation for the consultation meetings with the concerned LGUs, the Consultant
wrote a letter to the Mayor of Hinoba-an, Mr. Francisco Bilbao, requesting the attendance
of concerned barangay captains at the Municipal Hall in 19 January 2001.
In 19 January 2001, the consultation meeting took place at the Office of Mayor Bilbao at
9:30 a. m. The Barangay Captains of concerned barangays---Pook, Alim, Asia, Daug,
and Culipapa attended the consultation meeting. Vice Mayor Decena, and the Municipal
Planning and Development Officer (MPDO), Mr. Ambigan were also present during the
meeting.
RAP Team Leader, Annabelle Herrera, together with key  Ms. Herrera briefing the concemed Barangay
representatives from the Negros Occ. 3d Engr District,  Captains of Hinoba-an regarding the preparation of
Engr. Haydee Alunan, Chief of Planning Section, And  the RAP for the Hinobaan-Basay Road.
Engr. Gina Dimacali, in a meeting wit Mayor Bilbao of
Hinoba-an. Not on photograph is Mr. Elias Bacusa,
Negros Occ 3d DEO Chief of Maintenance Section.
f~ .                                          Meeting was also attended by the Municipal Planning and
Meeting with Mayor Minda Anlap (standing) of Basay,  Development Coordinator, Mr. Nilo Taleon (seated, left
Negros Oriental on 30 January 2001.              side), and Municipal Engineer, Mr. Cesar Barte (seated,
right side) of Basay, Negros Oriental.
3-2



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
During the meeting, the Consultant explained the National Roads Improvement and
Management Program (NRIMP) under which the road under study will be implemented.
The meeting focused on the LARR Policy of the DPWH, particularly the type of
compensation packages that would ensure that project affected persons would not be
marginalized, once the project is implemented. Other topics include: (i) definition of
severe and marginal impacts; (ii) conduct of PCMs at each barangay; (iii) importance of
tagging the structures to be affected using pre-numbered stickers; (iv) the need to
photograph the PAPs, together with the structures and improvements to be affected; and
(v) conduct of census and socio-economic survey of PAPs.  The Consultant then
scheduled the barangay level PCMs for each barangay.
33    Training of Enumerators from the DEOs
The Consultant and the EIAPO agreed to utilize the concerned District Engineering
personnel as enumerators since they are the principal and regular representative of
DPWH in the RAP Implementation Committee (RIC) to be set up. This did not only
familiarize the DEO key staff and representatives with the important concepts of the
Resettlement Policy but also gave them a chance to have a hands-on experience in
dealing with the PAPs. In this manner, succeeding disclosures with them would be much
easier since a considerable level of confidence and trust would have been established.
During the training they were informed that data gathering for the RAP would consist of
three main tasks namely, (i) assistance in tagging; (ii) cost estimating and drawing of
sketches; and (iii) survey of PAPs. They were given sufficient instruction of how to carry
out the assignments given to them. For example, tagging required the setting out of
construction limits using meter tapes to determine the project-affected structures. Cost
estimateS for structures were to be prepared by computing the corresponding bill of
materials, plus labor (including demolition and construction). Sketches of affected
structures--were to be prepared using the plan and profile provided by the EDT as
reference. - Estimated values were to be based on actual account of the structures,
computed at current replacement cost. Survey of PAPs was to be carried out using the
PAPs' native tongue, i.e., l1ongo.
3-3



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                        Resettlement Action Plan
3.4    Barangay Level Public Consultation Meetings
All PCMs commenced with an opening prayer. This was followed by a brief description
of the Project, and the purpose of the PCM. To familiarize the target PAPs with the RAP
preparation process, the Consultant discussed in detail the activities that will be
undertaken, from tagging to the conduct of socioeconomic survey. Examples of stickers
to be used for tagging were also shown. The Consultant even asked for PAP volunteers
in demonstrating how they will be photographed in front of their houses carrying a board
showing the tag number of the affected structure.
PCM at Brgy. Pook, Hinoba-an             PCM at Brgy. Culipapa, Hinoba-an
PCM at Brgy. Bal-os, Basay               PCM at Brgy. Poblacion, Basay
During the Open Forum, the participants were encouraged to ask questions about the
RAP, express their apprehensions and concerns regarding the proposed Project, and raise
other relevant issues. All the PCMs were properly documented by means of attendance
34



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                      ReseLtlement Action Plan
sheets, photographs, and cassette tape recordings of each open forum (A copy of the
Attendance Sheets and Proceedings of the PCMs are found in Appendix B).
In terms of venue, PCMs were held at barangay halls, elementary schools/day care
centers, and even in a public market. Details on the results of the PCMs are presented in
the next chapter.
3.5   Tagging of Project Affected Structures and Taking of Photographs
Tagging was carried out after each barangay consultation meeting to make sure that the
PAPs are well informed of the purpose of the stickers. The Tag Team was headed by an
authorized representative of the Engineering Design Team (EDT). He was assisted by
one of the trained DEO staff. It is important to note at this point that the engineering
plans that would specify the final construction limit were not yet available when tagging
was undertaken. Such being the case, the Consultant decided to take the maximum
number of PAPs that would probably be affected, by following the preliminary
construction limits that were assigned by the EDT.
Tagging of affected structures and improvements commenced in 24 Jan 2001 and
completed in 01 Feb 2001. Tagging was followed by the taking of photographs of the
PAPs. The PCMs were very effective as indicated by the eagerness of the PAPs to have
their photographs taken, complete with the tag board, which they carried willingly.
'                                        1~~~~~~~~~~11
SPAP at Brgy. 2, Poblacion, Hinoba-an    SPAP at Brgy. Bongalonan, Basay
3-5



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
MPAP at Brgy. Buhwangan, Hinoba-an       MPAP at Brgy. Bongalonan, Basay
3.6   Census and Socioeconomic Survey
The conduct of LAA and SIA immediately followed the tagging process. The survey
instrument consists of seven (7) pages. Said instrument was pre-coded to facilitate
inputting and processing of information in the computer.
In accordance with the LARR Policy, census, covering general information on all the
PAPs such as demographic data and properties affected was undertaken, and
socioeconomic surveys were limited to only those who will be severely affected. To
cover 100% census regardless of the severity of impact, the first three (3) pages of the
instrument was designed to include basic data on the PAPs. For marginally affected
persons/families, only these first three (3) pages were used to obtain the necessary
information. For the severely affected, the entire seven (7) pages of the instrument were
administered. Census and socioeconomic survey of PAPs was started in 24 January
2001 and completed in 24 February 2001. Accomplished instruments were checked for
completeness on a daily basis. Forms with missing data were revalidated at the field for
correction. A copy of the survey instrument is provided as Appendix C.
3.7   Data Processing and Analysis
Properly filled up forms were inputted in the computer using SPSS version 9.0 for
Windows.
3-6



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
CHAPTER 4.          PROCEEDINGS OF PUBLIC CONSULTATION
MEETINGS
The LARR Policy explicitly stated the importance of conducting a "thorough barangay
meeting to orient and ensure the that the community understands the nature and extent
of the proposed project'. It further stressed that project awareness will facilitate the data
gathering process and ensure the quality of data that would be provided by the
community to the project team.
During the conduct of barangay-level PCMs, all the Barangay Officials who attended the
orientation meeting at the municipal level were present. As the barangays' respected
leaders, their participation provided an atmosphere that allowed a free flow of discussion
to take place. As observed, the PAPs were at ease, trusting, and eager to listen. Even
when they were informed that the implementation of the Project would entail
displacement, they maintained an open mind by responding that "sacrifices must at times
be made for the benefit of more people".
Majority of the PAPs expressed strong support to the Project. Some became emotional
because according to them, they have been waiting for a very long time for the
improvement of this road section. An elderly woman even exclaimed that the long wait
has turned her hair to gray. However, some conveyed their apprehension regarding the
manner and basis of payment to their properties. In return for the "sacrifice", their only
request is that they be accorded prompt and just compensation. When the basic
principles of the LARR Policy and the objectives of the RAP were explained to them,
their acceptance of the Project seemed to have reached finality.
PCMs at project-affected barangays were held on the following schedule:
4-1



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                      Resettlement Action Plan
Municipality/Barangay      |        Date             Time
HINOBA-AN                                                             l
Pook                          24 Januaty 2001       9:30 a. m.
Alim                          24 Januaty 2001      10:30 a. m.
Asia                          24 Januaty 2001      2:00 p. m.
Bulwangan                     24 Januaty 2001      4:00 p. m.
25 Januaty 2001      8:30 a. m.
Culipaug                      25 Januaty 2001     10:30 a. m.
Sangke                        25 Januaty 2001      2:00 p. m.
Poblacion - Barangay 2       03 February 2001       8:00 a. m.
BASAY
Bal-os                       03 February 2001      10:30 a. m.
Bongalonan                   03 February 2001       2:00 p.m.
Poblacion                    03 February 2001      4:00 p. m.
A brief description of the project, followed by the basic principles of the Resettlement
Policy was presented during each PCM. In summary these are:
(i)  The Hinobaan-Basay Road is under the World Bank-assisted National
Roads Improvement and Management Program (NRIMP) and as such
requires a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as a condition prior to
implementation;
(ii) The Resettlement Policy is initially applicable only to road projects under
the NRIMP and that the stakeholders must not expect the same guidelines,
particularly in terms of compensation, to be applied to other projects of the
DPWH;
(iii) The RAP would include three main areas of concern namely, the
identification of adverse environmental and social impacts as well as the
recommendation of mitigating measures to abate such impacts; the socio-
economic survey of PAPs, and the determination of compensation and
entitlements to the PAPs.
(iv) The identification of project-affected structures was still preliminary since
the detailed engineering design for the road section was still on-going; and
4-2



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resettlement Action Plan
that the tagging and census would be maximized to include all possible
PAPs; It was explained to them that the number of affected structures may
still decrease once the detailed design is completed, and this would be
related to them through the 3rd Negros Occidental DEO;
(v) The standard width of the road, following IBRD guidelines, is 12.7 meters,
consisting of 6.7 m travel way, 1.5 m shoulder and 1.5 m side ditches in
both directions. However the width may vary depending on the natural
configuration of the terrain; i.e., rolling to mountainous sections would
necessitate wider R-O-W due to cut and fill requirements.
(vi) The existing R-O-W for the Hinobaan-Basay Road is set at 20 meters
(vii) There would be a Cut-Off Date for identifying affected structures, after
which any additional or new construction will not be entitled to any
compensation. The cut-off date was set to be the last day of the conduct of
socio-economic survey.
(viii) Structures with stickers bearing the tag number and the letter "S" refer to
structures that would be severely affected, whereas those with the letter "M"
would refer to structures with marginal disturbance such as damages to
fences, extensions that are not vital to the stability and integrity of the main
structure, cutting of fruit-bearing trees, and the likes;
(ix) For fixed assets that would be demolished, PAPs will be compensated 100%
prior to demolition; however, it was pointed out that the PAPs must vacate
their properties seven (7) days after full payment is received whether the
project will be immediately implemented or not, as stated in a contract that
they will sign;
(x)  Compensation for land would be based on the fair market value set by an
Independent Land Appraiser (ILA);
(xi) For fixed assets, compensation would be based on replacement cost (i.e.,
price of labor and materials if the structure were to be reconstructed),
without deductions for salvaged materials;
(xii) Payment procedure to PAPs would be very transparent, since they would be
asked to sign documentation papers with the signature of the concerned
Barangay Captain affixed on it;
4-3



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                      Resetilement Action Plan
(xiii) That a RAP Implementation Committee (RIC), consisting of representatives
from the DPWH, Municipal and Barangay Officials, and the host
communities, will be formed, giving the PAPs a chance to actively
participate in the implementation of the RAP;
(xiv) That grievances arising from any aspect of the Project (except land
valuation) can be ventilated through the RIC, and that these shall be acted
upon accordingly within prevailing laws, rules, and regulations.
4.1   Project Stakeholders
There are three (3) main groups of stakeholders for the Hinobaan-Basay Road Section.
These are the: (i) DPWH 3rd Negros Occidental District Engineering Office (project
implementer); (ii) local government officials of Hinoba-an and Basay, and the eleven
(11) project affected barangays; and (iii) local residents of project-effected barangays.
Representatives from all these groups participated in the PCMs. Key personnel from the
DPWH 3rd Negros Occidental District Engineering Office based at Kabankalan,
including its Chief of Planning Section, Engr. Haydee Alunan, and Chief of Maintenance
Section, Engr. Elias Bacusa were present in all these PCMs. Aside from the briefing held
at the Mayor's Office at Hinoba-an, Barangay Captains of affected barangays attended
the respective PCMs. The said PCMs were completed satisfactorily.
4.2   The Project Team
Project Team here refers to the group that is responsible for the completion of the RAP.
The members consist of Ms. Olive Baguio of the EIAPO, Ms. Haydee Alunan, Mr. Elias
Bacusa, Ms. Aura Gina Dimacali, Ms. Lorna Cafia, Mr. Alejo Germinal, Mr. Randy
Tantiado, Ms. Jean Grace Mission, Mr. Jay Gencaya, Mr. Gifredo Cahilig, and
Mr.Antonio Miguel of the 3rd Negros Occidental DEO, Mr. Paquito Franco of KEI, Mrs.
Felicia Rubianes, and Mr. Ronaldo Manipol of ECOSYS Corporation, and Ms. Annabelle
Herrera, as the Team Leader.
43    Mechanisms for Stakeholder Participation
As mentioned in Chapter 3, participants were encouraged to raise issues, concerns, or
reactions to the proposed Project during the open forum portion of the PCMs. A
summary of the issues and concerns raised during the PCMs are provided in Table 4.1.
4-4



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                Resettlement Action Plan
Please note that the barangay/sitio at which the issues were raised are indicated on the
middle column for proper reference.
4-5



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                Resettlement Action Plan
Table 4.1  Issues and Concerns Raised During the PCMs
Issues/Concems Raised         Stakeholders Who       Responses Made by the Project Team
Raised the
Issues/Concerns
The seven (7) days given to PAPs  Brgy. Pook and Brgy.  This issue was reported to the DPWH PMO-
to vacate their structures after  2, Poblacion,     IBRD Office for appropriate action. The EJAPO
accepting full payment, is not  HINOBAAN            decided to extend from seven (7) to thirty (30),
enough for them to construct                        the number of days for PAPs with permanent
another place to live in,                           structures to vacate their houses. However for
particularly those with semi-                        PAPs with makeshift abodes, the period of seven
concrete to concrete houses                         (7) days still hold true.
If there will be land takes, will the  Brgy. Alim, Brgy.  If the impact is severe, and the PAP is a
payment be given to the owner or  Sangke, HINOBAAN,  landowner, he would be compensated for the
those who occupy the land     and Brgys. Bongalonan  land based on the ILA appraisal plus financial
and Poblacion, BASAY  assistance, and given sufficient time to harvest
their crops. If the PAP is an agricultural lessee,
he would be entitled to disturbance
compensation equivalent to five (5) times the
average of his gross harvest in the last five (5)
years, but not less than P15,000/ha
What would be the basis for   Brgy. Alim, Brgy. 2,  For lands to be acquired, government would pay
payment of land and           Poblacion, and Brgy.  at the valuation specified by the IIA. For
improvements                  Culipapa HINOBAAN,    structures, payment would be based on
Brgys. Bongalonan &   replacement cost.
Poblacion, BASAY
If there would be compensation  Brgy. Alim, Brgy. 2,  There will be disturbance compensation for
for business establishments who  Poblacion HINOBAAN  business or commercial activities that will be
will be affected                                    disrupted because of the implementation of the
Project. This will be equivalent to a maximum
of one (1) month business income
What if only a portion of the  Brgys. Asia & Daug,  If the structure is made of light or wooden
concrete structure would be   t-NOBAAN, Brgy.       materials, compensation would be for the entire
affected/damaged, will the    Poblacion, BASAY      structure. However, if only a portion of a semi-
compensation be for the entire                      concrete or concrete structure will be damaged
structure                                           and the rest is still viable, only the
affected/damaged portion would be
compensated.
If there are PAPs who do not own  Brgy. Bulwangan,  Since this is a government Project, the standard
any land, will they be relocated  Brgy. Culipapa,   procedure is for the host municipality to provide
HINOBAAN              land earrnarked for socialized housing. The
DPWH's role would be to prepare the said land
for relocation; i.e., construct access roads, and
provide water and power supply. However in
accordance with R.A. 7279, relocatees at
government-provided sites must amortize the
land they will occupy at a rate affordable to
them, so that they can be assured of tenure.
4-6



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                 Resettlement Action Plan
Table 4.1  Issues and Concerns Raised During the PCMs (Continued...)
Issues/Concerns Raised        Stakeholders Who       Responses Made by the Project Team
Raised the
Issues/Concerns
If trees to be cut will be     Brgy. Bulwangan,      Fruit-bearing trees and crops to be damaged will
compensated and what would be  Brgy. Daug, & Brgy.   be included in the payment for improvements.
the basis for payment         Sangke, HINOBAAN,      The price would be based on the respective
Brgy. Poblacion,      Municipal Assessor's schedule of valuation
BASAY
In case the alignment passes  Brgy. Bulwangan,       This will be subject to the decision of the
through the middle of a property  Brgy. Culipapa,    DPWH PMO-IBRD Office
can the owners request the DPWH  HINOBAAN
to shift the alignment
There are portions of the existing  Brgy. Daug, Brgy.  Unsettled R-O-W problems were incurred
road that are still in the name of  Culipapa, Brgy.  decades of years ago. Complaints may be
the owners; some have not even  Sangke, HINOBAAN     submitted by a formal letter to the District
been compensated                                     Engineer so that the Department's Legal Office
can act on such complaints.
Who would pay for tax debts if  Brgy. 2, Poblacion   The heirs have to settle these tax debts
the owners have already died   HINOBAAN
Who will demolish the structures  Brgy. 2, Poblacion  For PAPs whose structures are made of light to
HINOBAAN              wooden materials, they were advised to
demolish it on their own so that they can be
assured of salvaging reusable materials. Semi-
concrete to concrete structure owners have the
option whether to demolish it on their own or let
DPWH do it. In the case of the latter,
demolition cost would be excluded from the
compensation package.
If value of salvaged materials  Brgy. Culipapa,      No, payment to structures will be at replacement
would be deducted from the     HINOBAAN              cost without deduction for salvaged materials
computation of replacement cost
How crops far from residence of  Brgy. Sangke        Tagging team would try to locate the owner
owners would be tagged         HINOBAAN              through the help of the respective Barangay
Captains. Corresponding tag numbers will be
attached to these croplands
Concreted areas at Brgy.      Brgy. Bongalonan,      This matter will be brought up with the Detailed
Bongalonan, Basay still        BASAY                 Engineering Design Team
experience flooding up to one (1)
meter high   - -
Will public infrastructures like  Brgy. Bongalonan,  DPWV   will replace public infrastructures that
basketball courts              BASAY                 will be damaged by the Project
4-7



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                        Resettiement Action Plan
CHAPTER 5. RESEITLEMENT ACTION PLAN
The province of Negros Occidental where most of the Hinobaan-Basay Section is
located is the largest among the other provinces in Region 6. Its total land area is
792,697 hectares. It is situated in the northern and western portion of Negros Island, and
is divided from the other half of the Island, Negros Oriental, by the Kanla-on Mountain
Range. Negros Oriental has a total land area of 540,230 hectares, and is the largest
province in Region 7, in terms of land area.
5.1   Characterization of Geo-Political Units
5.1.1 Hinoba-an and Basay, Affected Municipalities
Locaton, LandArea, and Political Sub-Units
Hinoba-an, Negros Occidental
Hinoba-an is the last town of Negros Occidental located on its southernmost tip, in
boundary with the province of Negros Oriental. This coastal municipality is bounded on
the north by the Municipalities of Sipalay and Candoni, on the southeast by the
Municipality of Basay, Negros Oriental, on the east by the Municipality of Ilog, and on
the west and southwest by the Sulu Sea. It has a total land area of 41,450 hectares, which
is around 5.23% of the total land area of Negros Occidental.
Hinoba-an has six (6) major land management units namely, (i) Agricultural, (ii) Forest
Land, (iii) Industrial, (iv) Fishpond Areas, (v) Built-up Areas, and (vi) Open Space.
Agricultural land measures 10,302 hectares, comprising 24.85% of the municipality's
total land area, forestland, 12,852 hectares (31.01%), industrial land, 40 hectares (0.09%),
fishpond areas, 200 hectares (0.48%), built-up areas, 3,274 hectares (7.90%), and open
spaces, 14,782 hectares (35.66%).
Hinoba-an consists of 13 barangays. In its Municipal Profile, these barangays consist of
Barangay 1-Poblacion, Barangay 2-Poblacion, Alim, Asia, Bacuyangan, Bulwangan,
Culipapa, Damutan, Daug, Pook, Sangke, San Rafael, and Talacagay (Please refer to Fig.
5.1). Among these barangays, eight (8) will be traversed by the Project. These are
(i) Barangay 2-Poblacion, (ii) Pook, (iii) Alim, (iv) Asia, (v) Bulwangan, (vi) Daug,
(vii) Culipapa, (viii) Sangke.
Basay, Negros Oriental
Basay is a coastal town located on the southernmost tip of the province of Negros
Oriental. It is bounded on the North by the Municipalities of Bayawan and Hinoba-an,
5-1



HinobaarnBasay Road                                      Resettement Action Plan
Negros Occidental, on the east by Bayawan, on the west by Hinoba-an, and on the south
by the Sulu Sea. Its total land area is 16,203 hectares, which is around 3.0% of the total
land area of Negros Oriental.
Based on its Municipal Profile, Basay is considered as one of the biggest fishing ground
in Negros Oriental by the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR). In fact
fishing was reported as one of its major sources of livelihood. Aside from aquatic
resources, other major products include minerals such as copper, gypsum, magnetite,
rock phosphate, guano, limestone, and coal. Among its agricultural products, corn ranks
number one, followed by coconut, rice, and bananas.
Basay consists of ten (10) barangays, five (5) located along coastal areas, five (5) in the
hinterlands. These are Barangays Poblacion, Actin, Bal-os, Bongalonan, Cabalayongan,
Cabatuanan, Linantayan, Maglinao, Nagbo-alao, and Olandao. Three (3) barangays will
be affected by the Project. These are (i) Bongalonan, (ii) Bal-os, and (iii) Poblacion.
Demographic Characteristics
Hinoba-an, Negros Occidental
Hinoba-an's population was registered as 40,813 in 1990 and 40,532 in 1995, based on
the 1995 NSO Census of Population and Housing data. These represents 2.2% and 2.0%
of Negros Occidental's total population, respectively. Its population density remained at
98 persons per km2 from 1990 to 1995. Hinoba-an's Municipal Profile did not give
details on its population growth rate, except for the total population in 1990, which was
reported to be 40,813, and in September of 1995, 40,532 persons. This means that the
Municipality had a negative growth rate of about 0.11 from 1990 to 1995.
Basay, Negros Oriental
Basay is reported to have a population of 17,736 in 1990 and 18,500 in 1995, based on
the NSO 1995 Census of Population - Socio-Economic and Demographic Characteristics.
These represents only 1.92% and 1.80% of Negros Oriental's total population in 1990
and 1995 respectively. In terms of growth rate, Basay registered a growth of 0.79%
between 1990 and 1995. However, its Municipal Profile states that there has been a rapid
increase in population, from 1978 to present, with a growth rate of 4.5%. It attributed
this increase to rapid migration during that period and up to the present times.
5-2



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                       Resetfeement Action Plan
Socioeconomic Characteristics
Hinoba-an, Negros Occidental
The municipal economy of Hinoba-an is agriculture-based with rich marine and mineral
resources. As previously mentioned, agricultural land measures 10,302 hectares or
24.85% of its total land area, whereas fishponds make up 200 hectares, or 0.48% of the
Municipality's land area. Farming and fishing are the main sources of income, with
minor inputs from the mining and other industrial activities in the area.
Basay, Negros Oriental
Basay's major agricultural products include, rice, corn, coconut, and bananas. It is
classified as a 4h Class municipality during the July 1993 reclassification. Its municipal
gross income was registered as P10, 027,959.46 in 1994, and P15, 328,346 in 1997.
5.1.2 Proiect-Affected Barangays
As previously discussed, the Hinoba-an-Basay Road traverses eight (8) out of the 13
barangays of Hinobaan, and three (3) out of five (5) barangays of Basay, or a total of
eleven (11) barangays. These are Barangays Poblacion (Barangay 2), Pook, Alim, Asia,
Bulwangan, Daug, Culipapa, and Sangke in Hinoba-an, and Barangays Bongalonan, Bal-
os, and Poblacion in Basay.
Table 5.1.1 presents a comparison between the 1995 population densities at the
provincial, municipal, and barangay levels. It is noticeable from the table that among the
host barangays, Barangay 2 of Hinoba-an shows the highest population density with
1,114 persons per square kilometer. Second in rank is Barangay Bal-os in Basay with
466, and third, Barangay Culipapa in Hinoba-an with 265.
5-3



Hhiobaan-Basay Road                                                     Resetliement Adion Plan
Table 5.1.1  Comparative Population Densities at the
Provincial, Municipal, and Barangay Levels
Prov/Mun/Bar     Land Area    Population   Density
(in km2)
,NEQROSO,CC_ 5>~-i -7~     a 8,926:10 I92728.  -:  . 39.
~HIN,C)Bi,A,t,A,,N",j  J  ^'.=.4-507  _40,        98
Poblacion 1 & 2       3.50       3,899       1,114
Pook                 34.91       1,740         50
Alim                 34.15       3,362         98
Asia -               42.17       4,796        114
Bulwangan            33.25       3,255         98
Daug                 17.15       1,387         81
Culipapa             26.44       6,996        265
Sangke               53.30       2,633         49
,B,, -v       .-- ~~:i62Q3  IS .,00  *i . 114
Bongalonan           23.72       3,016        127
Bal-os                5.57       2,594        466
Poblacion            18.06       3,496        194
Source: Municipal Profiles of Hinoba-an and Basay
5.2     Socioeconomic Profile of PAPs
As mentioned in Chapter 3 of this report, a 100% census was carried out for all PAPs, but
in terms of the socioeconomic survey, only the severely affected were interviewed. The
following socioeconomic information on the severely and marginally affected persons
and families are based on the census and socioeconomic survey undertaken from 30
January to 23 February 2001. For ease of discussion, PAPs who will be severely affected
will be referred to in this report as SPAPs; those who will just be marginally affected,
MPAPs.
Based on the LAA, there are a total of 123 severely affected persons and families. On
the other hand, there are 297 persons and families and six (6) public infrastructure
facilities that will be marginally affected.
Table 5.2.1 shows the distribution of project affected persons and families, and public
infrastructure-facilities by barangay. As shown in the table, Brgy. Culipapa has the most
number of affected SPAPs, whereas Brgy. Asia has the most number of MPAPs.
5-4



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                    Resetfernent Action Plan
Table 5.2.1  Distribution of SPAPs, MPAPs and Public Inlrastructure
Facilities by Barangay
I     Severe Impact           Marginal Impact
Municipality/Barangay  PAPs    Public Infra   PAPs     Public Infra
'HINOBAAW ANI .:,                                   ,
Poblacion               9  |                    7           1
Pook                   10  |                    5
Aim                     8  |                   20
Asia                   20           -         109           2
Bulwangan              11           -         30            1
Daug                   14           -         36            1
Culipapa               37           -         47            1
Sangke                  2           -         35-
BASAY      l
Bongalonan             10                      7
Bal-os                  1                 -
Poblacion               1                      1
Total       123                    297            6
5.2.1  Demography and Basic Information
Household Size
Tables 5.2.2a and 5.2.2b show respectively the household size of the SPAPs and MPAPs
per barangay. As seen from these tables, majority of both categories of PAPs have an
average household size of 1 to 4 and 5 to 7. Only 0.8% and 1.5% have household size
greater than 10 for the severely and marginally affected families, respectively.
Table 5.22a Household Size of SPAPs
Municipality/Barangay                    Household Size/Percentage
1-4      %      5-7      %       8-10     %       >10      %
HINOBA-AN              .    -
Poblacion            3    33.3       6     66.7       -        -        -
Pook                 5    50.0       4     40.0       1     10.0
Aiim                 2    25.0       4     50.0       2     25.0
Asia                 9    45.0       7     35.0       4     20.0        -      -
Bulwangan            6    54.5       4     36.4       1      9.1
Daug                 8    57.1       4     28.6       1      7.1       1     7.1
Culipapa            18    51.4      13     37.1       4     11.4        -      -
Sangke               1    50.0       1     50.0                                   l
BASAY                     -          -         -.
Bongalonan           6    60.0       4     40.0                  | -              |
Bal-os               -      -        -       -        .1   100.0    |          -
Poblacion            -      -        -       -        1    100.0       -       -
Total     58    47.9      47     38.8      15     12A.       1     0.8
5-5



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                     Resetement Action Plan
Table 5.22b Household Size of MPAPs
MunicipalitylBarangay                    Household Size/Percentage
1-4 q |%         5-7      %      8-t0      %     >10      %
-HINOBA.AN.   .    :    - - :.
Poblacion            4    57.1        2     28.6       1    14.3        -       -
Pook                 1    25.0   _2                         50.0        1    25.0
Alim                 6    33.3        9     50.0       3    16.7                -
Asia                45    44.6       44     43.6      11    10.9    _         1.0
Buiwangan           10    40.0        9     36.0       6    24.0        -       -
Daug                11    39.3       13    46.4        4    14.3        -       -
Culipapa            14    36.8       15    39.5        8    21.1        1     2.6
Sangke              18    52.9       10     29.4       5    14.7        1     2.9
BASAY     .        .    ..              *. . .   -.
Bongalonan           2    28.6        3    42.9        2    28.6    _
Pob1acionI I   I       J              1    100.0       -       -        -       -
Total    1111 422          06    4023       42    16.0        4     1.5
EducationalAttainment
The level of educational attainment of the severely and marginally affected respondents
in the host barangays is presented in Tables 5.2.3a and 5.2.3b, respectively.
Table 52.3a  Educational Attainment of SPAPs
Educaton (Number/Percentage)
Mun/Barangay   BerL     I Beem.     HS         HS        Vocabonal  College    College  INone
Under ad   Graduate  Undergrad  Graduate  Grad.      Underqrad.  Graduate
HINOBA-AN       .              .  .- -      ..-
Poblacion         2                    1          3                               2 -_2
222%                 11.1%      33.3%      11.%                 22.2%   |
Pook              3         2          2          3            =
30.0%     20.0%      20.0%      30.0%          -          -         -
Abm                               |_2_            3                                  |-
12Zs      25.0      t12.5       37.5            |               12z.5 |
Asia                                                   __9_4  3  3_          _      _
45.0%     20.0%      15.0%6     20.0%          -
Bulwangan         4                               22            |      3
36.4%                          _18.2%      18.2% _   27.3% 
Daug              2         6          3          2   __1___-
14.3%     42.9%      21.4%      14.3% 0               71%-
Cubipapa         12         6          7          6                    2          -        3
33.3%      16.7%     19.4%      16.7%             |   5.6%       2.8%     8.3%
Sangke     I      1I       1I   I_____
150.0%   1 50.0%II
Bongalonan 1      4  -      2   1      3          -                                        1
1  40.0%      20.0%     30.0%         O-          -  r       -          -   10%
Bal-os             1         -         -          -  I          I          I
100%           - I                  - I                  - I
Poblacion         1          -          -         -                    -             r -
100%          -          -          -         -                            -
Total      40         23  1      20        23          3          4         5        4
32.8%      18.9%  |  16.4%   | 18.9%   |   2.5%       3.3%   |   4.1      3.3%
5-6



HinobaarnBasay Road                                              Resetternent Acbon Plan
Table 5.2.3b  Educational Attainment of MPAPs
Educaton (Number/Percentage)
Mun./Barangay  Elem.   Elem.     HS       HS        Vocatonal |Conege   College   None
Undergrad  Graduate  Undergrad  Graduate  Grad.  Undergad.  Graduate
HINOBA-AN        -          ,.--'' -   '  ..' .  "                        -
Pobacion                                                                   4 1 r  t  _  - C  4
=_   -20.0%                              _       _    80.0%
Pook            3                                                          2
60.0        -----                                         40.
Alim                      6         1        5                   1        4
-    35.3%      5.9%     29.4%               5.9%     23.5%
Asia           43        26        15       14           1       1         5
41.0%     24.8%    14.3%     13.3%      1.0%  I   1.0%     4.8%
Butwangan       3         9        6         2         2  1      2         1
12.0%    36.0%     24.0%/     8.0%o    8.0%      8.0%     _ 4.0% -
Daug            5         10      4         6         -         2         2
17.2%     34.5%    13.8%     20.7%               6.9%      6.9S6
Culipapa        7        12         2        9         1         1         5
18.4%    31.6%      5.3%     23.7%     2.6%      2.6%     13.2%    2.6%
Sangke         13        10         6        4        -                    1       1
_  37.1%   28.6%     17.1%    11.4%  1-                      2.9%    2.9%
.BASAY -     --'
Bongalonan      3         1         1        1         1               _   -
42.9%     14.3%     14.3%    14.3%     14.3%
Poblacion                 1         -        -         -
-    100%         -         -         -
Total      7 7      76        35       41         5         7        24       2
28.7%     248A%     13.1%    15.3%     1.9%       2.6%     9.0%    0.7%
As seen from these tables, 32.8% of the respondent SPAPs and 28.7% of the respondent
MPAPs did not finish elementary education. Those who finished high school constitute
18.9% of the SPAPs, and 15.3% of the MPAPs. In terms of respondent PAPs who
finished college, there are more respondent MPAPs than SPAPs who finished college
education (4.1% for SPAPs, 9.0% for MPAPs).
Residence History
Based on Table 5.2.4a, 32.5% of the respondent-SPAPs have been residing in these areas
for more than 20 years; 14.2% for 16-20 years, 19.2% for 11-15 years, 14.2% for 6-10
years, and 20.0% for 0-5 years. For the respondent MPAPs, 44.1% of the respondent-
SPAPs have been residing in these areas for more than 20 years; 16.3% for 16-20, 10.6%
for 11-15 years, years, 15.9% for 6-10 years, and 13.2% for 0-5 years (See Table
5.2.4b)..
5-7



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                             Resetteement Action Plan
Table 5.2.4a   Residence History of SPAPs
Residency
Mun.Barangay       0-5       %       6-10      %       11-15      %       16-20      %        >20       %
years              years             years              years              years
HINOBA-AN.    -.     -       .                           -
Poblacion                11.1         -                 4     44.4         -        -         4     44.4
Pook               2     20.0         1     10.0         -       -         2     20.0         5     50.0
Alim               2     25.0         1     12.5         -       -         3     37.5         2     25.0
Asia               6     30.0         2     10.0        5     25.0         3     15.0         4     20.0
Bulwangan           -       -         1      9.1        2     18.2         2     18.2         6     54.5
Daug               2     14.3         2     14.3        1      7.1         1      7.1         8     57.1
Culipapa           7     20.6         8     23.5        7     20.6         5     147          7     20.6
Sangke              -       -         -        -        2    100.0         -
B A S A Y ::- - .-_, ,=.,,,._.,,... .
Bongalonan         4     40.0         1     10.0        1     10.0          I    10.0         3     30.0
Bal-os              -       -         1    100.0                 -
Poblacion           -       -         -       -         1    100.0         -        -         -        -
Total       24     20.0        17     142        23     192         17     142        39      32.5
Table 5.2Ab    Residence History of MPAPs
Residency
Mun.Barangay      0-5        %       6-10      %       11-15      %      16-20      %        >20       %
years _            years             years              years             years
'HIN013A-N    ,   t   .          ,-   '*  .,            _'.   .,,'-.-      ,,.'F,;
Poblacion           -       -                           1     100.0 |               -         -        -
Pook               1     25.0         -       -         1     25.0         -        -        2      50.0
Alim                1     6.3         6     37.5        2     12.5         1      6.3         6     37.5
Asia              10      10.6       17     18.1        10     10.6       18     19.1        39     41.5
Bulwangar          2      8.3         1      4.2        7     29.2         4     16.7        10     41.7
Daug               5     20.8         4     16.7        1      42          1      4.2        13    54.2
Culipapa           8     26.7         3|    10.0        2      6.7         7     23.2       10     33.3
Sangke             3      9.7         4     12.9                           5 |   161         19    61.3
Boncjworan g          i       i       1 i   33.3 i      1 1   33.3         - i       I         1   333
Tota|       30 |132            36     15.9       24     10.6       37      16.3      100     44.1
5-8



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                    Resettement Action Pban
5.2.2  Socioeconomic Characteristics
Socioeconomic characteristics of the SPAPs are described in this section based on the
results of the survey conducted. The SPAPs' standard of living and socioeconomic status
shall be evaluated using the following indicators: (i) sources of income; (ii) household
income and expenditures; (iii) level of education attained; (iv) type and ownership of
structure occupied; and (v) type of lighting, water supply, cooking fuel, and sanitation
facilities.
Primary Occupation
As shown in Table 5.2.Smajority of the respondents (32.0%), are engaged in business
operation. As observed in the field, most of these are in forms of sari-sari stores, small-
scale market stalls (talipapa), and retail trading establishments selling fishing gears. This
is followed by Housekeeping, 18.9%, Farming, 18.0%, and Others (fishing, vending,
driving), 14.8%. It can also be noted that a high 12.3% of the respondent SPAPs also
expressed that they are not engaged in any type of livelihood.
Table 52-5     Prlia Occu an of SPAPs
_________________ I    Piimary (ccupatio(Nuij ber/Percentage)
Barangay            FaTner    Hired    Unslkied  Prof.   Business  House-  Others    None
Farm     Labor    Empt     Operator keeper
Worker
HINOBA-AN-   .                                                    -    ;
Poblacion                                                  2                  2        5
22.2%              22.2%    55.6%
Pook                    2       1        1         -       2                   -       3
20.0%    10.0%    10.0%        -   20.0%    10.0%         . -   30.0%
Arim                             -        -        -       4        -          4        -
-   -             -        -   50.0%        -     50.0%
Asia                    6                 1        -       8        4          1
30.0%              5.0%        -   40.0%    20.0%       5.0%
Bulwgan                3                  -       1        5        2          -
27.3%                       9.1%   45.5%    18.2% 0 o
Daug                   4                  -                2        4         1        3
28.6%                              t 14.3%  28.6%       7.1%    2.4%
Cubpapa                4                 1                11       11         5        4
11.1%              2.8%            30.6%    30.6%      13.9%   11.1%
Sangke                  1                     -            -        -         1
50.0%                                                  50.0% 
BASAY        .    --          -      . --- -            .     ,   .-. "
Bongalonan              1 |               -        -       5        1         3 |
10.0%                              50.0%    10.0%      30.0%
Ba-os                               1-                     -        - 
100.0%
Poblacion               1-
100.0%                                                      -        -
Total       22        1        3        1      39       23         18      15
18.0%     0.8%     2.5%     0.8%   32.0Y    18.9%      14.8%   12.3%
5-9



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                           Resetlement Action Plan
Household Income
Table 5.2.6a shows that majority of the surveyed households (73.2%) fall below P63,
360, Region 6's annual poverty threshold for a family of six (based on incidences in 1997,
Philippine Statistical Yearbook, 2000). Of these, 60.2% fall below the annual food
threshold of P39, 239. However it should be noted that 26.8% are earning more than the
poverty threshold for Region 6. These figures indicate the SPAPs' high vulnerability to
greater degrees of impoverishment if their income sources are taken away from them.
Since the economy of Hinoba-an is generally agriculture-based, it becomes necessary to
assess the SPAPs' dependence on land as a source of livelihood.
Table 5.2.6a  Household Income of SPAPs
Total Household Income
Barangay .    <P39,239           P39,240 to |       % |>63,360    %
P63,360
NHINOB4->N;Z',;:     - ; _~.,- F5  P;-,     . '', ,,,     .-:
Poblacion       5       55.6         -         -        4       44.4
Pook            6       60.0        3       30.0        1       10.0
Arim            4       50.0         1      12.5        3       37.5
Asia           12       60.0         1       5.0        7       35.0
Bulwangan       6       54.5        1        9.1        4       36.4
Daug            9       64.3        2       14.3        3       21.4
Culipapa        25      67.6        5       13.5        7t      18.9
Sangke           1      50.0         1      50.0         -         -
Bongalonan      6       60.0        2       20.0        2       20.0
Ba__s  _     __                                    _  _  _1    100.0
Poblacion                                               t i  if   100.0
Total     74       602         16      13.0        33      26.8
Sources of Income
The SPAPs' incomes are classified into two (2) types namely the farm and non-farm
incomes.. This was done to understand the nature of the SPAPs' source of livelihood.
Farm income refers to household earnings derived from farming and other related
agricultural activities. Non-farm income pertains to profit from business operation,
salaries and wages from employment, and remittances from working family members
who do not live with the SPAPs. In this manner, the SPAPs' dependence on land as its
main source of livelihood can be assessed.
5-10



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                             Resettement Acton Pln
Tables 5.2.6b and 5.2.6c show the farm and non-farm income of the SPAPs',
respectively. Table 5.2.6b shows that in among those who derive their income from
farming and other related activities, 89.5% earn incomes below the annual food threshold
of P39,239 and only 4.9% earn above Region 6's annual poverty threshold. On the other
hand, SPAPs' whose incomes were solely derived from non-farm sources such as those
mentioned above, only 68.3% fall below the annual food threshold, 11.4% earn between
the annual food and poverty threshold, and 20.3% earn more than P63, 360 per annum.
This is not to say that the SPAPs would be better off if they don't engage in farming
activities. It just shows that farming in the these barangays are of the marginal type, and
that SPAPs who engage in farming alone would be better off if they would have other
sources of livelihood. The same impression is indicated when the average annual farm
incomes were graphed vis-a-vis the average annual non-farm incomes of the SPAPs.
Table 5.2.6b  Fanm Income of SPAPs
Total Farm Income
Barangay       P39,239     %      P39,240 to    %       >63,360
I  P63,360
HINOBA-AN  -  , i..... :        -      - *      .  .   .     ...       ,
Poblacion        7       77.8         2       22 2
Pook             8       80.0         2       20.0
Afim             7       87.5         -         -          1       12.5
Asia            16       80.0                 10.0        2        10.0
Buhwangan        9       81.8                 9.1          19.1
Daug            12       85.7                   -         2       14.3
Cufipapa        37      100.0  I                           -
Sangke           2      100.0  I
BASAY. l.  B           .            . '-      :. 
Bongalonan      10      100.0         .
Bal-os           1      100.0
Poblacion        1      100.0         -         -          -
Total     110       89.5         7        5.7        6        4.9
Table 52.6c  Non-Farm Income of SPAPs
I                      Total Non-Farm Income
Barangay      <P39,239     %      P39,240 to    %       >63,360      %
P63,360
HINOBA-AN s           . -. . :-
Poblacion        5       55.5         -         -         4       44.4
Pook             8       80.0         1       10.0        1       10.0
Afim             4       50.0         1       12.5        3       37.5
Asia            14       70.0         2       10.0        4       20.0
Bulvangan        7       63.7         1        9.1        3       27.3
Daug            12       85.7         1        7.1        1        7.1
Culipapa        25       67.5         5       13.5        7       18.9
Sangke           1       50.0         1       50.0
BASAY,    .                           -           - ; ,:       -
Bongalonan       8       80.0         1       10.0        1       10.0
Bal-os    j-                          -         -I       1      100.0
Poblacion        -            I       1 1    100.0         - I
Total      84       68.3 J      14       11.4       25       20.3
5-11



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                  Resetlernent Action Plan
Household Expenditures
The SPAPs' average annual household expenditures by barangay is shown in Table 5.2.7.
As seen from the table, food expenses comprise bulk of the SPAPs' total annual
expenditures. This is followed by education, utilities, and other expenses. This strongly
indicates that crops obtained from the farmlands are not sufficient for the community's
sustenance.
Table 5.2.7 Average Annual Household Expenditures of SPAPs
Household Expenditures
Barangay      |  Food      %      Utilibes  I  %   Education   %      Other     T% Total
Poblacion   31,311.1   51.03   4,390.44   7.16  13,673.11  22.28  11,981.52  19.52  61,356.18
Pook        26,345.00  59.37   9,970.80  22.47    7,464.8  16.82    590.20   1.33   44,370.80
AJim        37,512.50  43.16  17,263.25  19.86  16,399.00  18.87  15,744.25  18.11  86,919.00
Asia         35,190.00  72.03  4,390.80   8.99   5,087.15  10.41   4,185.5   8.57   48,853.45
Bulwangan   33,227.18  78.49   5,249.73  12.40   1,731.45  4.09   2,123.64   5.02   42,332.00
Daug        31,732.14  78.04   3,253.00   8.00   5,303.50  13.04    373.58   0.92   40,662.22
Cubpapa     33,289.67 X 76.48  3,423.50   7.74   5,090.95  0.65   1,891.92   4.28   44,236.04
Sangke         25,300  84.02       525    1.74   1,819.00  6.04   2,466.00   8.19   30,110.00
Bongalonan  58,035.00  86.28     892.8    1.33    7,073.2  10.52   1,261.3   1.87   67,262.90
Bal-os      73,000.00  60.68  30,000.00  24.94  14,300.00  18.89  3,000.00   2.49   120,300.00
Poblacion   73,000.00     -          -      -    3,675.00  4.79         .       -   76,675.00
Overall        35,686.20  70.31  5,17824    102    6,451.84  12.89   3,353.10   6.60   50,759.38
Availability of Basic Social Services
Results of the survey showed that 75.4% of the households interviewed have access to
electricity as a source of lighting. Only 22.1% are still using kerosene for illuminating
their abodes (See Table 5.2.8).
5-12



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                     Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.2.8  Type of Lighting of SPAPs' Dwelling Units
Lighting Source
Barangay       Electricily  %   Kerosene    %     Coleman/    %      Others     %
lamp            Petromax
Poblacion             77.8               11.1                               11.1
Pook                  90.0               10.0
Arim              7   87.5          1    12.5
Asia             15   75.0          5    25.0
BulNangan        10   90.9          1     9.1
Daug             11   78.6          1     7.1        1     7.1         1     7.1
Cubpapa          28   77.8          8    22.2        -       -         -
Sangke            1   50.0               50.0
B,ASAY        ,          '. -.  s :- - .'  -,,-  .  .            -   s .
Bongalonan        4   40 0          6    600       .                          . 
Bal-os            -      -          1   100.0
Poblacion         -      -          1   100.0                -
Total       92   75.4        27    22.1         1     0.8         2     1.6
In terms of source of water supply, 37.2%   of the respondents obtain their domestic water
supply from pumped wells, 19.5% from spring/river development systems, and 16.5%
have piped water supply (Please refer to Table 5.2.9).
Table 5.2.9  Source of Water Supply of SPAPs
Source of Water
MunlBarangay    Spring/   %     Dug     %    Artesian   %    Pump     %      Piped     %     Other    %
River         Well            Well           Well                             s
,                                                  ,HINOBA,~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ _   ,,AN.  _;,, .  -_-   ~,'-- '''. .  - ' ":. -. -'?- '';- ,',-,,r*r- iw--
Poblacion                      5    55.6        - |          3     33.3      -         -      1    1
Pook                           6    60.0       3    30.0           10.0 |
Arim              1   12.5     1    12.5        -      -     6     75.0 |       |        |
Asb               3   15.0     1     5.0       7    35.0     4     20.0      5      15.0 |
Bulwangan         -     -      1     9.1        -      - |   7     63.6      3      27.3 |
Daug              9   64.3     -       -        -      -      -       -      5      35.7      -
Culipapa          9   25.7     1     2.9       1     2.9     4     11.4   42.9      17.1      -
Sangke            1   50.0     -       -        -      -     1     50.0 |             - |       |
'BASAY                          .                           '; -' -.  . . .  '  ,_   :  ..>  .  , ,
Bongalonan  |           -      -       -       3    30.0     7 |700
Bal-os                                          -      -                          100.00
Poblacion    _        _     _                     f ____ |   1  '100.0    |
Total     23   19.0    15    12A.       17 | 14.0     45    37.2     20      16.5      1    0.8
5-13



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                        Resetement Acfion PLn
In terms of sanitation facilities, it can be observed from Table 5.2.10 that most of the
residents at the project area are using the semi-flush type of toilet facility (70.5%).
However, there are still 15.6% who responded that they have no toilet facility at all.
With regards to cooking facilities, 38.5% are using wood, 38.5% are using charcoal, and
only 23.0% use LPG for cooking.
Table 5.2.10  Type of Toilet Facility of SPAPs
Toilet Faility
Barangay        Open pit   %   |AnoJo              Smi-      %       Flush  |%        None       %
flt6ush
HINOBA-AN -,T .`:-, . -                        .   ....." *     ' .      '    ,:      '       '
Poblacion                  -       -                9    100.0
Pook              1    10.0                         6     60.0                -        3     30.0
Alim              -       -                         6     75.0        1     125         1    12.5
Asia              2    10.0                         12    60.0        -       -        6     30.0
Bulwangan         1     9.1                -        10    90.9                -         -       -
Daug              1     7.1        1      7.1      11     78.6        1     7.1         -       -
Cubipapa          1     2.8        2      5.6      27     7.0-                -        6     16.7
Sangke                         -       -             -           -                     2    100.0
.BASAY I                                            . ;.    .     .       . .
Bongaonan         I    10.0        4     40.0       4     40.0                         1     10.0
Bal-os                             -       -        1    100.0                                  -
Poblacion                          1    100.0        -       -        -       -         -
Total       7     5.7        8      6.6      86     70.5        2     1.6       19    15.6
Table 5.2.11  Type of Fuel Used by Severely Affected PAP's
I                         Cooking Fuel
Barangay         Wood        %     |Chamoal       %        LPG        %
,HINOB,4AN   .   . .  -      .,    ',    ,            a/.'._. -   .-._:.   -!
Poblacion          2      22.2          3      33.3          4     44.4
Pook               7      70.0          3      30.0          - |
AiIm                2      25.0         3      37.5          3      37.5
Asia                5      25.0        12      60.0          3      15.0
Bulwangan          3      27.3          3      27.3          5     45.5
Daug               5 I    35.7 |        4      28.6          5     35.7
Culipapa           10     27.8         19      52.8          7      19.4
Sangke              2    100.0           -        -          -.       -
Bongalonan         9      90.0 |                    |        1      10.0
Bal-os              1     100.0          -        -          -         -
Poblacion           1    100.0                                         -
Total        47      38.5        47      385          28      23.0
5-14



Hinobaan-3asay Road                                                      Resettlement Action Plan
5.2.3   Project Awareness
The SPAPs' and MPAP's awareness of the proposed project are presented in Table
5.2.12a and Table 5.2.12b, respectively. Table 5.2.13a and Table 5.2.13b on the other
hand show their respective sources of information about the Project.
Table 5.2.12a  Project Awareness of the SPAPs
Informed About the Project?
Mun./Barangay        Yes                  No         %        Total
HiNOBA.AN               -
Poblacion            9       100.0                              9
Pook                 10      100.0                             10
Alim                  8      100.0                              8
Asia                 20      100.0                             20
Bulvangan           11        100                              11
Daug                 13       92.9         1        7.1        14
Culipapa            35        97.2         1        2.8        36
Sangke               2       100.0         -        -
-:BASAY; --     :   .-       : T' ,                   '  '    - 
Bongalonan           10      100.0
BaP-os                1      100.0
Poblacdon             1      100.0         -          -
Total      120       98.4         2        1.6        122
Table 5.2.12b Project Awareness of the MPAPs
InforTned About the Project?
Mun./Barangay        Yes        %          No         %        Total
HINOBA.AN                    .           ..        .. . 
Poblacion            4         80          1        20          5
Pook                 5        100          -          -         5
Alim                 18       100          -          -        18
Asia                100       95.2         5        4.8       105
Bulwangan           26        100                              26
Daug                28        96.6         1        3.4        29
Culipapa            37        100          -          -        37
Sangke              34        97.1         1        2.9        35
BASAY-.'
Bongalonan           7        100                     -         7
Poblacion            1        100          -          -         1
Total      260       97.0         8        3.0       268
5-15



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                   Resettlement Action Plan
Table 5.2.13a  SPAPs' Source of Information About the Project
Source of Information About the Project
Mun./Barangay   LGUs      %      DPWH       %     Neighbors   %     Relatives   %
DEO    j         /Friends |                I
HINOBA-AN                            t
Poblacion        2    22.2         6    66.7         1    11.1
Pook             9    90.0         1    10.0         -       -
Abm              3    37.5         5    62.5          -      -
Asia             7    35.0         8    40.0         5    25.0
BulNangan        5    45.5         5    45.5         1     9.1
Daug             6    46.2         6    46.2         1     7.7
CuUpapa         19    54.3        11    31.4         4    11.4         1     2.9
Sangke           1    50.0                           1    50.0         -
BASAY  -,, ,   .t  . '.    -.       ::  ',     ..  -  ;'                   .'.  .   i
Bongalonan                        10   100.0                            _
Bal-os                             1   100.0
Poblacion        -       -         1   100.0         -       -         -       -
Total      52    43.3       54     45.0        13    10.8         1      .8
Table 5.2.13b  MPAPs' Source of Information About the Project
Source of Information About the Project
Mun./Barangay   LGUs      %      DPWH       %     Neighbors   %     Relatives   %
DEO            | /Friends
Pobtacion        -       -         3    60.0         2    40.0  |
Pook             3    60.0         2    40.0         -       -
Amim             7    38.9         8    44.4         3    16.7         -       -
Asia            37    37.0        36    36.0        26    26.0         1     1.0
Butwangan       14    53.8         8    30.8         1     3.8        3     11.5
Daug            19    67.9         8    28.6         -       -          1   3.6
Cuipapa         17    45.9        14    37.8         6    16.2         -      -
Sangke          10    29.4        21    61.8         2     5.9         1    2.9
Bongalonan   f    -                7   100.0         -
Poblacion                          1   100.0        -       -         -      -
Total     107    41.0       108    41A         40  | 15.3        6     2.3
5-16



Hinobaar-Basay Road                                                Resettlernent Action Plan
As seen from these tables, 98.4% of the respondent-SPAPs are aware of the Project, and
that the main sources of information were the DPWH-DEO (45.0%) during the PCMs,
and their respective local officials (43.3%). Among the MPAPs, 97.0% expressed
awareness of the Project, and mentioned that their main sources of information are the
DPWH-DEO (41.4%) during the PCMs, and their local officials (41.0%). Other sources
of information include neighbors and friends, and relatives who attended the PCMs, and
relayed the information to them.
5.3    Impact Identification
5.3.1  Impact on Landowners
Impact on landowners would be in terms of loss of residential and agricultural land. All
the areas to be traversed are within, or immediately adjacent to existing national road,
except for the realignment section at Brgy. Culipapa, Hinobaan.
Table 53.1a   Land Acquisition at Realignment Sections
Name of Lot Owner        Land Use          Lot No./Station No.  Area to be
(Based on Parcellary  Acquired (mi)
Survey Plan)
Brgy.Culipapa, Hinobaan .-  .        . .*,                 .     .
Agustin Barte, Jr.   Agricultural (coastal)             261-C      3,68850
5-17



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                            Resettlement Acfion Plan
Table 53.1b      Land Acquisition at Existing R-O-W, Including Embankment and Bridge
Approach Sections
Name of Lot Owner             Land Use                 Lot No./Station No.         Area to be
I                         I (Based on Parcellary Survey Plan)  Acquired (mi2)
Brgy. 2, Poblacion, Hinobaan                      -        :
Estelita Villarate       Residential                       193+010.00-193+040.00         21.59
Estelita Villarate       Residential                       193+091.03-193+100 00          26.90
Brgy. Pook, Hinobann                      ...                         .       . .
Rafael Bilbao           Residential                          '      3920-A-2-A2        1,793.57
Rafael Bilbao           Residential                                 3920-A-2-D2        8,622.08
Zenaida Baroca           Residential                       195+276.00-195+290.00         44.34
Brgy.Alim, Hinobaan                   .         .  .     ., '    -   , -       '
Not Listed              Residential                        195+276.00-195+290.00         45.45
Lorna Alegado           Residential                       196+080.00-196+091.05          44.18
Violeta Salembat        Residential                       196+080.00-196+091.05          46.49
Ceferino Hernandez      Residential                                        3916          5036
Brgy. Asia. Hinoban.
Not Listed               Residential                      196+965.00-197+070.00         545.58
Brenda S. Pflieder      Residential                                        3911          28.82
James Susana             Residential                                       3911          44.45
Wilma Fuentes           Residential                                        3911         288.61
Brenda S. Pflieder       Residential                                       3914          62.00
Brenda S. Pflieder      Residential                                        3914          38.00
Brgy. Bulwangan,Hinobaan .- *,*.         -. . -                -.
Not listed              Residential                       203+898.60-203+950.00         188.02
Not Listed              Residential                       203+898.60-203+940.00         16236
'BrgyDa.ag,Hinobaan *      -   D  B.-                                   --          -  '.
Paulino Lumadao          Residential                          207+070.00-207.090         22.00
lBrgy. CuIiuiapa,HinobaaIi'';. .    - *. -                          .=  .  ..-
Agustin Bante, Jr.      Residential                       211 +670.00-211+690,00         58.66
Petronilo Fortugaleza   Residential                                        3865          48.57
Brgy. Sang e,;Hinobain     * .' = - ... - i. -                         . --.
Floro Vergara, SI.      Residential                                        3855         139.11
Floro Vergara, Sr.      Residential                                        3855         163.97
Not Listed              Residential                       215+269.00-215+300.00          78.22
Rolando Polines, et. Al.  Residential                     215+26950-215+330.00           92.90
5-18



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                 ResetteementAction Plan
5.3.2 Impact on Improvements
Structures
As previously mentioned, there are a total of 123 SPAPs and 297 MPAPs. Impact on the
SPAPs would be in terms of the need to demolish their houses, market stalls, and small
sari-sari stores that are either contiguous or detached from the main structures. The
number of affected structures and types of material the dwellings are made of are given in
Table 5.3.1. The table shows that most of the materials used for building these houses
are light (35.5%), semi-concrete (30.6%), and wooden (28.1%). Only a few are made of
concrete (5.0%). For the MPAPs, damages to be incurred include portions of residential
houses, market stalls, and sari-sari stores, plus fences that are mostly made of bamboo or
a combination of bamboo and cyclone wire.
Table 5.3.1   Number and Type of Structure of SPAPs' Dwelling Units to be Affected
Type af Structure
Mun./Barangay  No. of    Light    %     Wooden     %      Semi-     %     Concrete   %
struchires                                 Concrete
HINOBA-AN     -. .       . -          --:    -                   ,
Poblacion        9       3     33.3       3    33.3        3    33.3
Pook            10       6     60.0        -      -        4    40.4         -
Alim             8       4      50.0       -      -        3    37.5         1    12.5
Asa             20      13      65.0       1    5.0        4    20.0         2    10.0
Bulwangan       11       1      9.1        3   27.3        6    54.5         1     9.1
Daug            14       4     28.6       7    50.0        2    14.3         1     7.1
Culipapa        37       5      13.5      17   45.9       14    37.8         1     2.7
Sangke           2       1      50.0       1   50.0         -      -         -       -
BASAY           .    -   -      .     -       :;             .-  .-   .
Bongalonan      10       8      80.0       1   10.0         1   10.0 |
Ba-os            1                                          -                    100.0
Poblacon        I1                         1  100.0 
Total     123      43      35.5      34   28.1       37    30.6         7     5.8
When asked about the ownership of the structures they occupy, 97.5%     of the SPAPs
stated that they own the houses they dwell in; only 2.5%  occupy the structures free of
charge (See Table 5.3.2).
5-19



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                           Resetemrient Action Plan
4
Table 5.32    Structure Ownership of Severely Affected SPAP's
Tenure
Mun/Barangay          Owner        %Free                       %
Occupation
with Perrnit
Poblacion                9        10.0             -
Pook                     8         80.0           2          20.0
Alim                     8         1t0.0           -            -
Asia                    20        100.0
BuhNangant 11                    1t0.0
Daug                   14        1t0.0
Culipapa                36        100.0
Sangke                  2         100.0
Bongalnan                9         90.0            1         10.0
Bal-os                   1        100.0            -
Poblacion                1        100.0            -
Total        119         97.5           3           25
Crops and Trees
Aside from the houses, stalls, and fences that will be affected, fruit trees that will be cut
were also inventoried. A list of the number of fruit trees that will be cut during the pre-
construction period is presented here in Table 5.3.3 in terms of ownership by the SPAPs
and MPAPs.
Table 6.3.3  Trees to be Cut Along the Alignment
No. of Fruit Trees              No. of Forest Trees
MunJBarangay            SPAPs'          MPAPs'           SPAPs'          MPAPs'
Poblacion                  8              21               4               13
Pook                     18               20               6               3
Alim                       7              93               3               12
Asia                      68             726              15             202
-Buhwangan                 7             318                1              28
Daug                      4              225               -              53
Culipapa                 22              226               2              32
Sangke                     -             290                              25
Bongalonan                7     [         1                3               3
Bai-os                     I                               -
Poblacion                                  6                  .
Total         141             1936              34             371
5-20



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                 Resettlement Acfon Plan
5.3.3  Impact on Income
A number of market stalls and sari-sari stores will be affected by the construction
activities. Table 5.3.4 shows the number of these commercial stalls and stores. Losses
would be in terms of income, particularly those who depend on these as their only source
of livelihood. Unlike the stalls/stores that will be severely affected, disturbance to the
MPAPs' structures would only be in terms of losses in income due to disruption to
commercial activities because of partial to full blockade of access and frontage.
Table 53.4  Commercial Stalls and Sari-San Stores to
be Affected
No. of Stalls
Mun./Barangay        SPAPs'        MPAPs'
HINOBA-;AN '   --*        -.;  . . -
Poblacion              3              4
Pook                   2              1
Alim                   5              2
Asia                  10             12
Bulwangan              6              5
Daug                    -             6
Culipapa               7              9
Sangke                  -             6
BASAY,     .   -t  -   . .    !
Bongalonan             5              3
Bal-os
Poblacion              1              -
Total         39            48
5.3.5  Impact on Public Infrastructures
There will only be three (3) public infrastructure facilities that will be marginally
affected. These mainly consist of a day care center in Barangay Asia, the Bulwangan
Barangay Hall, and a waiting shed in Barangay Daug. Please see Table 5.3.5.
5-21



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                               Resettlernent Action Plan
Table 53.5    Public Infrastructures to be Affected
Public Infrastructure
Barangay          Waiting  Brgy. Hall  Day Care
Shed               Center
Daug               1 (M)
Bulwangan                    1 (M)
Asia                             X     1(M)
Total      1         1         1
Note:  (M)- Marginal
5.4    Compensation and Entitlements
Computation of compensation rates and entitlements are based on the guidelines
stipulated in the DPWH LARR Policy of August 1999. For sections where there will be
no land acquisition, payment to the SPAPs will be in terms of improvements and
disturbance compensation only. These include payments for: (i) structures (residential
and commercial), (ii) fruit and forest trees, and (iii) disturbance compensation. Aside
from financial compensation and assistance, the SPAPs will also be entitled to the
following:
(i)    Make use of salvaged materials without deductions from the compensation
to be received;
(ii)   Subsistence allowance to those who have businesses affected due to severe
impact on structure; estimated income loss provided in this report are
subject to verification by the MRIC;
(iii)  Priority in hiring of qualified workers during the construction period;
(iv)   Provision of transportation assistance to SPAPs who need to be relocated;
(v)    When relocation becomes necessary, secured tenure status for relocatees
Payment to MPAPs shall include compensation to damages to improvements, which are
mainly portions of houses, market stalls, sari-sari stores, fences and trees, as well as
transitional allowance to cover for income loss during the period the businesses were
interrupted, Without exceeding one (1) month. The amount of transitional allowance will
be determined by the MRIC.
5-22



Hinobaar-Basay Road                                         ResetliementArion Plan
Instead of cash compensation for damages to public infrastructure facilities such as
waiting sheds, barangay hall, and day care center, it is recommended that the Negros
Occidental 3d District Engineering Office undertake the necessary construction and
rehabilitation. To enhance the DEO's relationship with the host communities, this could
be made into a joint effort wherein the District will provide the materials and equipment,
and the community, the available labor force.
The Entitlement Matrix based on the LARR Policy is shown on Table 5.4.1. Tables
5.4.2a and Table 5.4.2b show the compensation scheme for owners of land to be
acquired at realignment sections and at embankment and bridge approach sections
(additional R-O-W), respectively.
5-23



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                         Resettement Acton Plan
Table 5.4.1 Entitlement Matrix
_ Type of Loss    Application       Entitled Person                Entidement                            Compensation Amount
I   ~_           _   _ _  _   _  _   _ _  _   _  _(PhP)
1.   Arable land     Actual area needed  Owners with full   For the portion of the land needed:    AgricultuTal (Coastal) Und
by the' road project  title, tax declaration  +Cash compensation equivalent to zonal  1 PAF
28 PAPs         and,the-remaining   or who are covered    value + 10% (AO 50)                 3,688.50 e2 x P15.00/rm2 =       P55,327.50
land still          by customary law   + Topping-up supplement assistance
economically viable  (e.g., possessory    equivalent to the difference between to  Mixed Agricultural & Built-up Areas
rights, usufruct) or  the difference between the zonal value +  27 PAFs
28 PAPs             other acceptable      10% and the fair market value in the  12,655.73 m2 x P200.00/m2 =   P2,531,146.00
proof of ownership    area as established by the independent
appraiser to be hired by the independent
28 PAPs               appraiser to be hired by the project
+ Cash compensation for perennials of
commercial value as determined by the
DENR or the concerned appraisal
committee
+ PAP will be given sufficient time to
harvest crops on the subject land
PAPs without title,  For the portion of the land needed:
tax declaration, or  + PAP will be given sufficient time to
are not covered by  harvest crops
customary law (e.g.,  + Cash compensation for perennials of
possessory rights,  commercial value as determiined by the
usufruct) or other  DENR or the concemed appraisal
acceptable proof of  committee
ownership
Nil



HinQbaan-Basay Road                                                       Resettement Acbon Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matnx
Type of Loss      Application      Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Remaining land     Owners with full   + Cash compensation equivalent to zonal
becomes            title, tax declaration  value + 10% (AO 50) or, if feasible, land
economically not   or who are covered  for land will be provided in terms of a new
viable (i.g., PAP  by customary law   parcel of land of equivalent productivity, at
losing >20% of land  (e.g., possessory  a location acceptable to PAP, and with
holding or even    rights, usufruct) or  long-term security of tenure.
when losing <20%,  other acceptable   + Topping-up supplement assistance
but the remaining  proof of ownership  equivalent to the difference between the
land is not        Nil                zonal value + 10% and the fair market
economically viable                   value in the area as established by the
anymore)                              independent appraiser to be hired by the
Nil                                   project
+ Subsistence allowance of PhP 15,000
+ PAP will be given sufficient time to
harvest crops
+ Cash compensation for perennials of
commercial value as determined by the
DENR or the concerned appraisal
committee
+ If relocating, PAP to be provided free
transportation
+Rehabilitation assistance (skills training
and other development activities)
equivalent to Php 15,000 will be provided
in coordination with other governmnent
agencies if the present means of livelihood
is no longer viable and the PAP will have to
engage in a new income activity



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                       Resettement Aion Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person               Entitlement                         Compensation Amount
(PbPl)
PAPs without title, + Financial assistance equivalent to the
tax declaration, or  average annual gross harvest for the past 3
are not covered by  years but not less than PhP 15,000
customary law (e.g., +PAP will be given sufficient time to
possessory  rights, harvest crops
usufnuct) or other  + Cash compensation for perennials of
acceptable proof of commercial value as determined by the
ownership          DENR    or  the  concemed   appraisal
Nil                committee
+ Financial assistance to make up for land
preparation in the amount of PhPl50 per
square meter
+ If relocating, PAP to be provided free
transportation
+ Rehabilitation assistance (skills training
and   other  development   activities)
equivalent to PhP 15,000 wiWl be provided
in coordination with other govenmment
agencies if the present means of livelihood
no longer viable and PAP will have to
engage in a new income activity
Agricultural lessees  As per RA 6389 and EO 1035:
Nil                + Disturbance compensation equivalent to
five times the average of the gross harvest
on the land holding during the five
preceding years but not less than PhP
15,000 will be provided in coordination
with other govemment agencies if the
present means of livelihood is no longer
viable and the PAP will have to engage in
new income activity



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                         Resettlement Acton Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss        Application       Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Temporary use of    AU PAPs            + Compensation to be provided for loss of
land                Nil                income during the period, standing crops,
Nil                                    cost of soil restoration  and damage
structure
2.   Residential  land  Actual are needed   Owners with full   For the portion of the land needed:
and/or commercial  by the road project  title, tax declaration  + Cash compensation equivalent to zonal
land               and the remaining   or who are covered  value + 10% (AO 50)
Nil                land is stiUl viable  by customary law  + Topping-up  supplemental assistance
for continued use   (e.g.,  possessory  equivalent to the difference between the
rights usufruct) or  zonal value + 10% in the fair market value
other   acceptable  in the  area  as  established  by  the
proof of ownership  independent appraiser to be hired by the
project
Determined by the DENR or the concerned
appraisal committee



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                         Resetllement Adion Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person                Entitlement                           Compensation Amount
.__ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                         (PhP)
Remainiig           Owners with ful    + Cash compensation equivalent to zonal
residential    or title, tax declaration  value + 10% open (AO 50) or, if feasible,
commercial    land  or 'who are covered  land for land will be provided in terms of a
becomes- not viable  by,' customary law  new parcel of land of equivalent market
for continued use   (e.g., : possessory  value, at a location acceptable to PAP, and
rights, usufruct) or  long-term  security  of tenure.  The
other   acceptable  replacement land should of acceptable size
proof of ownership  under zoning laws of a plot of equivalent
value, whichever is larger, in a nearby in a
resettlement area with adequate physical
and social infrastructure. When the affected
holding is larger in value than the relocation
plot, cash compensation wiOl cover the
difference in value.
+Topping-up   supplemental  assistance
CD                                                                           equivalent to the difference between the
zonal value + 10% and fair market value in
the area as established by the independent
appraiser to be hired by the project
+ Cash compensation for perennials of
commercial value as determined by the
DENR or the concemed appraisal
committee
+ If relocating, PAP to be provided free
transportation
Temporary use of Al PAPs               + Compensation to be provided for loss of
land                                   income during the period, standing crops,
cost of soil restoration and damaged
structures



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                         Resetlement Action Pban
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application        Entitled Person               Entitlement                           Compensation Amount
(PhP)
3.   Main structures  Structure, with or  Owners        of  + Compensation in cash for affected portion
(e.g.,  house, without a building   structures with full  of the structure, including the cost of
house     cum   permit,   partially  title  or    tax  restoring  the  remaining  structure, as
shop)           affected  and  the  declaration  to the  detemiined by the concemed appraisal
remaining structure  land or those who  committee with no deduction for salvaged
120 PAFs        is still viable for  are by customary  building materials.
continued use.      law (e.g., possessory  + PAPs who have business affected due to
rights, usufruct (or  partial impact on the structure are in titled to
18 PAFs             other   acceptable  a subsistence allowance for the loss of
proof of ownership  income during the reconstruction period.
(such will be verified and computed by the
Municipal  Resettlement  Implementing
Committee or RIC).
Owners          of  + Compensation in cash for affected portion  Residential -18 PAFs
structures, including  of the structure including the cost of Affected Structure:        P1,111,160.00
shanty dwellers in  restoring  the  remaining  structure, as  Income Loss:
urban areas, have no  determined by the concerned appraisal Relocation:                            n/a
title   or    tax   committee with no deduction for salvaged  Rehabilitation:                      n/a
declaration  to the  building materials.                   Others:                                 n/a
land   or    other  + Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to
acceptable proof of  go back to their place of origin in the
ownership           province or be shifted to govemment
relocation site will be provided free
18 PAFs            transportation
+ PAPs who have business affected due the
partial impact on the structure are in titled to
a subsistence allowance for loss of income
during the reconstruction period. (such will
be verified and computed by the municipal
Resettlement Implementing Committee
RIC).
+ Professional squatters will not receive
compensation but they can collect their
salvageable materials



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                       Resetdement Acton Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application      Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
_ _ _ _ _ _ _I             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of + Given 3 month notice on the schedule of
leased    affected  demolition
structure, including  + If shifting is required, PAP is given
renters of shanty transitional allowance equivalent to one
dwellings in urban  month rent of a similar structure within the
areas              same area
+ For house tenants renting structures
Nil                outside of, or within the ROW, and who
have   to  transfer  elsewhere,  free
transportation will be provided
+ Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas
who opt to go back to their place of origin
in the province or be shifted to government
relocation site will be provided free
transportation
Entire   structure  Owners of structure  + Compensation in cash for entire structure
affected OR when   with full title or tax  at replacement structure cost as determined
the      remaining  declaration to the  by the concemed appraisal committee
becomes not viable land or those who  without deduction for salvage building
for continued use, are       covered  materials.
with or without a  customary law (e.g., + Inconvenience allowance Php 10,000 per
building pem-it    possessory  rights, PAP.
usufruct) or other  +PAPs who have business affected due to
120 houses and     acceptable proof of severe inpact on the structure are in titled
25   houses  with  ownership         to a subsistence allowance for the loss of
shops                                 income during reconstruction period. (such
Nil                will be verified and computed by the RIC
+   If  relocation  if  necessary,  free
transportation will be provided
+ Rehabilitation in the form of skills
training and other development activities
and equivalent to PhP 15,000 will be
provided in coordinadon with other
govenmment agencies if the present means
of livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no
longer viable in the PAP will have to
______________  __________________                    engage in a new  income activity



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                       ReseWementAcon Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application       Entitled Person               Entitlement                         Compensation Amount
Owners of structure, + Compensation for the entire structure at Residential- 120 PAFs
including  shanty  replacement cost as determined by the  Affected Structure:          P4,646,600.00
dwellers in urban  concemed  appraisal committee without Income Loss
areas, have no title  deduction salvaged building material.  Relocation                         n/a
or tax declaration to  + Shanty dwellers in urban areas who opt to  Rehabilitation              n/a
the land or other go back to their place of origin in the  Others (Trees)                P69,910.00
acceptable proof of province or be shifted to governent
ownership          relocation sites will be provided free  Residential/Commercial - 25 PAFs
transportation                        Affected Structure:           P2,095,734.00
120 houses and     + PAPs who have business affected due to  Income Loss                P289,839.00
25 houses with     the severe impact on the structure are in  Relocation                        n/a
shops, 8 houses to  titled to a subsistence allowance for the loss  Rehabilitation              n/a
relocate           of income during the reconstruction period. Others                           n/a
(such will be verified and computed by the
RIC).
+   If relocation  is  necessary,  free
transportation will be provided
+ NO Rehabilitation assistance in the form
of skills training and other development
activities will be provided in coordination
with other government agencies since the
present means of livelihood (e.g., house
cum shop) is still viable and the PAP will
not have to engage in a new income activity
+ Professional squatters will not receive
compensation but they can collect their
salvageable materials



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                       Resettlement Acton Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application      Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of + Given 3 months notice on the schedule of
leased    affected  demolition
structure, including  + PAP is given transitional allowance
renters of shanty  equivalent to one month rent of a similar
dwelling in urban  structure within the same area
areas              + For house tenants renting structures
outside of, or within the ROW, and who
Nil                have   to  transfer  elsewhere,  free
transportation will be provided
+ Renting shanty dwellers in urban areas
who opt to go back to their place of origin
in the province or be shifted to government
relocation site will be provided free
transportation
+ Rehabilitation assistance in the form of
skills training and other development
activities and equivalent to PhP 15,000 will
be provided in coordination of other
government agencies if present means of
livelihood (e.g., house cum shop) is no
longer viable and the PAP will have to
engage in a new income activity
4.  Independent     Shops,   with  or Owners of structure  + Compensation in cash for affected portion  Commercial -48 PAFs
Shops          without   building  with or without full of the structure including the cost of Affected Structure:       P1,179,730.00
(structures)    permit,   partially title  OT    tax  restoring  the  remaining  structure, as  Income Loss                P363,119.50
affected  and  the  declaration to the  determine by the concemed appraisal Relocation:                            n/a
62 PAPs         remaining structure land or those who  committee with no deduction for salvaged  Rehabilitation:                   n/a
are still viable for are  covered  by  building materials                   Others:                                n/a
continued use      customary law (e.g., + As determined by the RIC, PAPs will be
possessory  rights  endtled to transitional allowance to cover
48 PAPs            usufruct) or other for their computed income loss during the
acceptable proof of demolition and reconstruction of their
ownership          shops, but not to exceed a one month
period.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ______ _____ 48  PA Ps



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                         Resettement Acion Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss       Application       Entided Person                 Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of  + As determined by the RIC, shop renters
affected shops      will be entitled to a transitional allowance to
cover for their computed income loss
Nil                 during the period that their business is
interrupted
Entire shop affected  Owner of structure  + Compensation in cash for the entire  Commercial -14 PAFs
Or    when     the  with or without full structure at replacement cost as determined  Affected Structure:     P107,300.00
remaining structure  title  or    tax  by the concemed appraisal committee    Incorme Loss:                     P70,974.10
becomes not viable  declaration  to the  without deduction for salvaged building  Relocation:                          n/a
for continued use, land or those who   materials.                             Rehabilitation:                          n/a
with   or  without  are  covered   by  + Subsistence allowance of PhP 15,000 to  Others:                               n/a
building permit     customary law (e.g., each PAP
possessory  rights, Free transportation will be provided if
14 PAPs             usufrirct or other  relocating
acceptable proof of  + Rehabilitadon assistance in the form of
ownership          skills training  and  other development
activities and equivalent to PhP 15,000 will
14 PAPs            be provided in coordination with other
government agencies of the present means
of livelihood is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engaged in a new income
actvity
+ Professional squatters will not receive
compensation but they can collect their
salvageable materials



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                       Resettement Action Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss      Application      Entitled Person               Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
Renters (tenants) of + Given 3 months notice on the schedule of
affected shop      demolition
+ As determined by the RIC, shop renter
Nil                will be entitled to a transitional allowance to
cover for their computed income loss
during the period that their business is
interrupted but not to exceed 3 month
period.
+ If shifting, either permanently or
temporarily is required, shop renters are in
titled to free transportation
+ Rehabilitation assistance in the form of
skills training in the other development
activities and equivalent to PhP 15,000 will
be   provided  in  coordination  with
government agencies if the present means
of livelihood is no longer viable and the
PAP will have to engage in a new income
activity
5.   Other   fixed  Loss of, or damage  PAPs              + Compensation in cash for affected portion  Residential/Commercial -297 PAFs
assets     or   to, affected assets,                 of the structure, including the cost of Affected Structure (fences):  P314,829.00
structures     partially or entirely                 restoring  the  remaining  structure, as  Income Loss:                        n/a
determined by the concemed appraisal Relocation:                             n/a
297 PAPs        297 PAPs                             committee, with  no  depreciation  nor Rehabilitation:                        n/a
deduction for salvaged building materials.  Others (Crops &Trees):   P896,608.00
6.   Electric and/or  Loss of, or damaged  PAPs           Compensation to cover cost of restoring the
water          to, affected asset,                   facilities
connection      partially or entirely  Nil
Nil             Nil



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                         Resettement Acion Plan
Table 5.4.1     Entitlement Matrix
Type of Loss       Application       Entitled Person                Entitlement                          Compensation Amount
(PhP)
7.   Public          Loss of, or damage  Concemed agencies  + Compensation in cash replacement cost to  Public Facilities - 3 Facilities
Facilities      to,         public                     respective agencies                    Barangay Hall:                   P350,000.00
infrastructure (e.g.,  1 waiting shed,  + To be reconstructed by DPWH DEO     Day Care Center:                 P300,000.00
3 PAPs          public water tanks,  1 barangay hall,                                         Waiting Shed:                     P75,000.00
tram lines, bus stop  1 day care center
sheds,     loading  for replacement
platfonm,   public
health      center,
barangay    center,
electric or telephone
lines, etc.)
1 waiting shed,
1 barangay hall,
1 day care center
5-35



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                         Resettlernent Acton Plan
Table 5A.2a     Compensation Cost for Realignment Section
Barangay      Name of Landowner           Lot No.! Station  Area to be    Cost Based     Land
No. (Based on     Acquired       on ILA     Acquisition
Parcellary Plan)  (m2)          (per r2)       Cost
Culipapa      Agustin Barte, Jr.                  261-C      3,688.50     P15.00      P55,327.50
TOTAL                       3,688.50                 P55,327.00
Table SA.2b     Compensation Cost for Additional R-O-W, including Embankment and Bridge Approach
Sections
HINOBA -AN           .*......-r                              ,.. .L      .   - ^     .       -
Muncipality/   Name of Landowner      Lot No./ Station No.   Area to be   Cost Based      Land
Barangay                   .       (Based on Parcellary Plan)  Acquired      on        Acquisition
(m2)       ILA (per        Cost
m2)
Brgy. 2, Pob.  Estelita Villarte    193+010.00-193+040.00      21.59     P200.00          4,318.00
Estelita Villarte      193+091.03-193+100.00      26.90     P200.00         5,380.00
Pook         Rafael Bilbao                  3920-A-2-A2      1,793.57    P200.00        358,714.00
Rafael Bilbao                  3920-A-2-D2     8,622.08     P200.00      1,724,416.00
Zenaida Baroca         195+276.00-195+290.00      44.34     P200.00         8,868.00
Alim         (Not Listed)           195+276.00-195+290.00      45.45     P200.00          9,090.00
Loma Alegado                          152         44.18     P200.00         8,836.00
Violeta Salembat       196+080.00-196+091.05      46.49     P200.00         9,298.00
Ceferino Hemandez                    3916         5036      P200.00        10,072.00
Asia         (Not Listed)           196+965.00-197+070.00     545.58     P200.00        109,116.00
Brenda S. Pflieder                   3911         28.82     P200.00         5,764.00
James Susana                         3911         44A5      P200.00         8,890.00
Wilma Fuemtes                        3911        288.61     P200.00        57,722.00
Brenda S. Pflieder                   3914         62.00     P200.00        12,400.00
Brenda S. Pflieder                   3914         38.00     P200.00         7,600.00
Bulwangan    (Not Listed)           203+898.60-203+950.00     188.02     P200.00         37,604.00
(Not Listed)           203+898.60-203+940.00     16236      P200.00        32,472.00
Daug         Paulino Lumadao        207+070.00-207+090.00      22.00     P200.00         4,400.00
Culipapa     Agustin Barte, Jr.     211+670.00-211+690.00      58.66     P200.00         11,732.00
Petronilo Fortugaleza                3865         48.57     P200.00         9,714.00
Sangke       Floro Vergara, Sr.                   3855        139.11     P200.00        27,822.00
Floro Vergara, Sr.                   3855        163.47     P200.00        32,694.00
Not Listed             215+269.00-215+300.00      78.22     P200.00        15,644.00
Rolando Polines, et. al.  215+269.50-215+330.00   92.90     P200.00        18,580.00
TOTAL                              12,655.73                 2,531,146.00
Tables 5.43 and 5.4.4 shows the summary of the fixed assets, improvements, and income to
be affected, along with the corresponding values of compensation for the SPAPs and MPAPs,
respectively. The Compensation Matrices for the SPAPs and MPAPs are attached as
Appendix Al and A2 (RAP Volume 2), respectively. Table 5.4.5 provides the estimated
5-36



Hinobaari-Basay Road                                                      Resettlement Adjon Plan
resettlement cost, which includes a breakdown of the amount of Loan Fund (USD) and the
Counterpart Fund (Peso).
Table 5.4.3 Summary of FLxed Assets, Improvements, and Compensation for the SPAPs
Mun./Barangay      Floor     Replacement     No. of     Estimated      Estimated     TOTAL COST
Area          Cost        Trees        Value       Income Loss
(m2)                    I_ _  _  
HINOBA-AN
Poblacion       79.26       625,500.00       12        7,320.00      63,028.00      695,848.00
Pook            87.38       187,000.00       24        9,100.00       4,334.00      200,434.00
Alim           192.90       521,000.00       10        8,190.00      136,681.90      665,871.90
Asia           274.84       643,500.00       83       24,640.00      40,200.60       708,340.60
Bulwangan      266.81       277,000.00        8        2,770.00      55,124.00      334,894.00
Daug           277.00      1,822,000.00       4        1,640.00         924.00     1,824,564.00
Culipapa       810.33     2,340,300.00       24       10,950.00      48,208.70     2,399,458.70
Sangke          63.75        45,000.00        0             .00         176.00       45,176.00
BASAY          :           . -              .        :              ,   .      -
Bongalonan     185.22       229,294.00       10        5,300.00      11,573.40      246,167.40
Bal-os           9.90        13,400.00        0             .00            .00        13,400.00
Poblacion       27.00        38,340.00        0             .00         562.50       38,902.50
TOTAL            2,274.39    6,742,334.00      175       69,910.00     360,813.10     7,173,057.10
Table 5AA       Summary of bIprovernents and Compensation for the MPAPs
MunjEarangay   Fence    Replacement    Floor   Replacement    No.      EsUmated       Estimated       TOTAL
Meas.       Cost        Area        Cost        of        Value       Income Loss       COST
In)              (m')  JTrees
HINOBAAN . .       .   .  .   .:. :            :.-.
Pobladcon    58.00     101,630.00    51.48    216,000.00     34       30,280.00       36,000.00    383,910.00
Pook          6.00       1260.00    48.60      40,000.00     23        8,720.00        3,000.00     52,980.00
Arin         77.00      16,010.00    6.00       2,000.00    105       40,520.00        6,000.00     64,530.0o
Asia        228.60      71,086.00   137.63    537,500.00    928      336,830.00      276,682.00   1,222,098.0o
Buhlangan   159.00      31,089.00   22.45     520,000.00    346       84,940.00        6,066.00    642,095.00
Daug        117.00      25,430.00   2520       56,000.00    278      102,150.00        9,198.00    192778.0
Culfiapa    199.00      39,990.00  242.29     765,000.00    258       85,548.00       13,632.00    904,170.00
Sangke       97.20      20,412.00   52.82      69,660.00    315  |   200,280.00       10,500.00    300,852.w
BASAY    -
Bongalonan   38.20  |    7,922.00  [  52.88    84,730.00     14        4,700.00  |    2,041.50      99,393.50
PohLadon         - X        0.00     0.00          0.00       6        2,640.00  {        0.00       2,640.00
TOTAL          980.00     314,829.00   639.35  | 2,290,890.00  2,307    896,608.00      363,119.50   3,865,446.50
5-37



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                                 Resettement Aciton Plan
Table 5.4.5 Estimated Resettlement Cost
DESCRIPTION                 No.       UNIT         RATE          QTY.        AMOUNT         AMOUNT
P/UNIT                        Peso           USD
(Counterpart      (Loan
Fund)          Fund)
Compensation fior Land and
Strudures and other fixed assets
Land
-   Agncultural               3,688.50  m2        P15.00                   1       55,327.50
-   Mixed Agricultural and   12,655.73  m2        P200.00                 27    2,531,146.00
Builtup Areas
Structures (Residential and Shops)
-   Permanent                        8  No.       N/A             Actual
-   Semi-Permanent                  81  No.       N/A             estimates of
-   Temporary                       52  No.       N/A             replacement
141                            cost         Total=
_______                                  9,033.224.00
Other Fixed Assets
-   Residential fences              72  Inm       DEO sched      Actual           314,829.00
-   waiting sheds                    1  Lump      N/A             estimates of     75,000.00
-   barangay hall                    1  sum       N/A            replacement      350,000.00
-   day care center                  1                           cost             300,000.00
Repair Cost
-   Permanent                                                                        -
-   Semi-Permanent               -
-   Temporary                    -
Loss of Electric and Water
Connections                          -
-   Streetights                                     -                                -
- Water lines
Crops/Trees
-   Arable crops                 2,077  Number    Based on             2,077      585,658.00
-   Trees/perennials              405   Number    Assessor's and         405      380,860.00
DENR's
Schedule
Sub-total 1                                                                         13,626,044.50
Supplemental Assistance'
('Topping-up')
Transitional allowance to cover         73   HH        (based on       Lump sum       723,93260-
income loss for partially and                          actual monthly
severely-affected house cum shops                      income)
and partially-affected independent
shops
Subsistence Allowance (severely-        14   HHs       10,000.00                       140,000.00
affected shop owners wit/without
title to the land) _
Inconvenience Allowance (severely       31   HHs       15,000.00                       465,000.00
affected hos'eowners.with land title)
Financial Assistance (severely -         -   HH        15,000.00                                -
affected settlers, de facto owners of
agricultural land, etc.)
Rehabilitation Asistainc (severely-          HH        15,000.00
affected PAPs) -
'To be computed based on the difflerence between the Assessor's Schedule of values vis-a-vis the ILA's appraisal
2 Ffial vakle to be vaWated by the MRIC
5-38



I-rmobaan{3asay Road                                                  ReselWenent Adion Plan
Table 5.4.5 Estimated Resettlement Cost (Continued...)
DESCRIPTON              No.   UNIT     RATE       QTY.      AMOUNT       AMOUNT
P/uInT                  Peso         USD
(Counterpart   (Loa
Fund)        Fund)
La depaitm Assitance (margmally   -    m        150.00
aff     de fto owies ofagwhal
DWis- C-4-d_ (keS-)                    C R   5 x
averageof
fiveyis
Rat Alwnu (so   yal1iced          - HH       Equivalnt         -             -
tenants)                                     tome(()
fxlEnh ran               _     _   _     _
Maai, trbanswt allowance to     120  PAPs    2,000.00         15      30,000.00
reoAing PAPs                                 Fafhet
DPWH
Sub-Total 2                                                         1,358,93260
Rehcallo Ara (site devekmal umpd
acsroad)                             Sum
Exkmal MmariL and Post-                                                      2,000.00
b______Eval                          Sum _su
Fee of lmlpculmi Land Awpris-                                         37,500.00
TOTAL                                                              15     TlO 77.10
CosBt 6o                                              -     901348.63
Pfke confinoe_ci-s 15%               -                              2,253,371.57
GRAND TOTAL      18,177,197.30  2,000.0
5-39



HinobaanrBasay Road                                        Resettlement ActIon Plan
5.5   Possible Relocation Sites at Hinoba-an and Basay
Out of the 123 identified SPAPs, 58 are severely affected in terms of land and structures,
wherein the PAPs would just reconstruct their abodes within their remaining property; 57
will just reorganize (i.e., move at adjacent lot, using salvaged materials), and only eight
(8) are for relocation. Reorganization of the 57 PAPs would not be difficult since the
Municipality and the respective private land owners are willing to allow these people to
just reconstruct their abodes in adjacent lots within the built-up area. With respect to the
eight (8) PAPs who will be relocated, it has been agreed upon between the Municipal
Officials of Hinoba-an and the EIAPO, represented by Ms. Criste Navida that each of
them will be assured a site for relocation, in each affected barangay.
5.6   RAP Implementation
5.6.1 Approval of the RAP
Approval of the RAP is expected in the mionth of April, 2002, after submittal to the
DPWH and the World Bank. It shall be implemented as soon as the approval from the
GOP and the World Bank is received. The Negros Occidental 3rd and Negros Oriental 2nd
Engineering District shall implement the RAP, under an overall supervision of the PMO-
IBRD, and guidance and technical assistance from the EIAPO. The DPWH Regions 6
and 7 Office will be the PMO-IBRD and EIAPO's principal links with the DEO.
5.6.2 RAP Implementation Activities
MOUBetween DPWH and LGU
After receiving the approval to implement the RAP, a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) between the DPWH and Hinoba-an, and DPWH and Basay shall be executed to
ensure commitment of parties concerned.
Formation and Training of the RIC
The RIC of.Hinoba-an to be set up shall consist of the following:
(i)   Mayor of Hinoba-an or designated representative;
(ii)  Representative of the PAPs
5-40



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                         Resettlement Acton Pban
(iii) District Engineer or designated representative of the Negros Occidental
3rd District Engineering Office and Negros Oriental 2nd District
Engineering Office;
(iv)  Barangay Captains of Barangay 2 of Poblacion, Pook, Alim, Asia,
Bulwangan, Daug, Culipapa and Sangke in Hinoba-an;
(v)   Representative from an NGO/PO operating in the area
The RIC of Basay to be set up shall consist of the following:
(vi)  Mayor of Basay or designated representative;
(vii) Representative of the PAPs
(viii) District Engineer or designated representative of the Negros Occidental
3rd District Engineering Office;
(ix)  Barangay Captains of Bongalonan, Bal-os, and Poblacion in Basay;
(x)   Representative from an NGO/PO operating in the area
Once the RICs are created, the EIAPO shall arrange for the conduct of a series of training
workshops at the district level. During these workshops, the members of the RIC will be
fully guided on LARR Policy and the proper implementation of the RAP in accordance
with the said Policy.
Establishment of Detailed Compensation Rates
Once the RICs are equipped with the necessary knowledge on RAP implementation, it
will start to review and if necessary, update the compensation rates for land, structures,
improvements, and other entitlements for the SPAPs and MPAPs.
Conduct of Public Information Campaign
The RICs will continuously conduct public consultation meetings so that the PAPs can be
updated on the latest developments regarding the implementation schedule and other
activities they should be involved in. The RICs must also constantly remind the PAPs to
prepare all the necessary documents pertaining to the settlement of compensation for
fixed assets.
541



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                        Resetfement Action Plan
Finalization of Compensation and other Entitlements of PAPs
The RICs will then visit each PAP to validate the inventory of affected assets, and confer
with the affected families regarding their concurrence to the updated estimates of the
compensation and entitlements that they will receive.  Once the PAP agree, a
Compensation Entitlement Form shall be accomplished, signed by PAP, and noted by the
concerned Barangay Captain. Any disagreements with respect to valuation of the
properties shall be recorded. The PAPs will also be informed about the grievance
procedure in case disagreements are not settled.
Public Meeting
Once the Compensation and Entitlement estimates have been completed for each PAP,
Public Meetings at the barangay level shall be held to inform the affected stakeholders
about the schedule of payments, relocation arrangements for those who would need to be
relocated, and the commencement of civil works.
Payment of Compensation and Other Entitlements
After completing all the necessary documents, the RICs shall request the concerned
barangay Captains to inform their constituent PAPs regarding the date, venue, and time
of the payment of compensation.
Implementation Schedule
The Implementation Schedule for the Hinoba-an-Basay Road section is provided in Fig.
5.1.
5-42



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                                                        Resettlement Action Plan
Fig. 5.1  RAP Implementation Schedule
2002
RAP Implementation Acvtlvities         April       May         June        July      August    September      October     November
I.   Approval of the RAP
11,  Formation and Training of RIC
III.  Public Information Campaign
IV.  Stakeout and Validation of Titles
---       I W ' .~~t 
V.   Finalize Inventory and
Compensation Rates
VI.   Public Meeting
VII.  Payment of Compensation and                           .          .                   l
Other Entitlements
Vill. Handling Over of the Site
IX.  External Monitoring
Page 5-37



Hinobaan-Basay Road                                                          Resettlement Acbon Pan
5.6.3   Administrative and Contingency Costs
Administrative and contingency costs to be incurred in the implementation of the RAP
are estimated as follows:
Table 5.6.1   Estimated Administrative and Contingency Costs
Activity                             Cost Items                        Amount
A. Formation and training of the RIC  Logistics for EIAPO staff                      P 55,600.00
Logistics for Regional and DEO Staff              36,500.00
Allowances and per diem of members of the          94,500.00
RIC
Transportation Cost                               45,000.00
B. Updating/validation of affected  Logistics for EIAPO staff                        112,800.00
fixed assets and corresponding
compensation and entitlements
Logistics for Regional and DEO Staff             170,000.00
Allowances and per diem of members of the         189,000.00
RIC
Transportation Cost                              157,500.00
C. Conduct of public meetings                                                        550,000.00
Total                                                  1,410,900.00
D. Contingency                      + 10% Contingency                                   141,099
GRAND TOTAL                                                      1,551,900.00
5-44



