OFFICIAL
DOCUMfENTS
GRANT NUMBER TF012076
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Fifth Economic Reform Support Grant)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Acting as Administrator of the Single-Donor Trust Fund for the Fifth Economic
Reform Support Grant
Dated  naIrL,         ,2012


﻿GRANT NUMBER TF012076
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT      dated    ..        , 2011 entered into between the
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI ("Recipient") and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of the Single-Donor Trust Fund
for the Fifth Economic Reform Support Grant ("ERSG V") in respect of grant funds
provided to said trust fund ("Trust Fund") by Norway, for the purpose of providing
additional financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The World Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter
alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement; and (b) the
Recipient's maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The
Recipient and the World Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01.  The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to eight
million seven hundred ninety five thousand three hundred sixty two Dollars and
eighty Cents (US$8,795,362.80) ("Grant") to assist in financing the Program.
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with
Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned Trust Fund for which the World
Bank receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the
Standard Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the
availability of such funds in the Trust. The World Bank shall not be obliged to
provide funds under the Grant to the Recipient except to the extent the World
Bank shall have received funds from the donors for this purpose.
2


﻿ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end,
(a)    the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank
shall reasonably request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the World Bank on any
situation which would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program,
including any action specified in Section I of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02(k) of the
Standard Conditions is that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  This Agreement shall become effective as of the date of execution of this
Agreement by both parties, subject however to the conditions listed below being
satisfied, and shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and
the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations there under.
5.02.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely
that the World Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient's
macroeconomic framework.
5.03.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
3


﻿ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Recipient's Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development Planning
P. O. Box 1830
Bujumbura
Burundi
Facsimile:
257-22-22-38-27
6.03. The World Bank's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:              Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
4


﻿AGREED at         0m     r     ur jm,LA  as of the day and year first above
written.              _
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as Administrator of the Single-Donor Trust Fund for
the Fifth Economic Reform Support Grant)
By
Authorized Representative
5


﻿SCHEDULE
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
A.     Transparent System of Public Financial Management Aligned with the objectives
of the Recipient's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(1)    The Recipient has adopted a budget framework for the preparation of its
2012 budget law, consistent with its medium-term expenditure
framework for the period 2011-2014 (MTEF), consequently bringing the
spending thresholds for its ministries' budget allocations in line with the
MTEF.
(2)    The Recipient has issued a decree to establish the general regulations on
public budget management designed to improve the management of its
budget execution and public accounting.
(3)    The Recipient has disclosed to the public its budget law for 2011 and the
corresponding report on the implementation of said law for the first two
quarters of said year.
B.     Improving Business Environment and Promoting the Development of the Private
Sector
(4)    The Recipient has (i) completed a water and electricity tariff study and,
on the basis of the study, (ii) has revised said tariffs in order to improve
the financial viability and operational performance of REGIDESO and
(iii) has launched a campaign to sensitize the public and make it aware of
the revised tariffs and the schedule for their application.
(5)    The Recipient's Council of Ministers has adopted, on the basis of
technical and financial audits, a draft action plan with a timetable for the
privatization and/or restructuring of eight pre-identified state-owned
enterprises, so as to rationalize their operations.
(6)    The Recipient has appointed, by ministerial ordinance, a commission
responsible for the preparation of the bidding documents for the sale of
one hundred four (104) state-owned washing stations in the coffee sector
and the aforementioned commission has established its work program
with a clear timetable and deliverables.
6


﻿(7)    The Recipient's Council of Ministers has approved and submitted to the
Recipient's parliament a draft law on agricultural Pre-cooperatives
Groups consistent with the Recipient's coffee sector privatization
strategy.
C.     Coping with the Effects of Food and Fuel Crises
(8)    The Recipient has temporarily reduced excise taxes on the following
petroleum items from their levels as listed in the 2009 Ministerial
Ordinance, to a minimum of 70 percent on kerosene, 60 percent on diesel
and 34 percent on gasoline.
Section II.  Availability of Grant Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World
Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.     Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Grant is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Grant. The
allocation of the amounts of the Grant to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations              Amount of the Grant Allocated
(expressed in USD)
Single Withdrawal Tranche                8,795,362.80
TOTAL AMOUNT                             8,795,362.80
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the World
Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient, and
(b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework.
D.     Deposits of Grant Amounts. Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree:
1.    all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the World
Bank into a dedicated foreign currency account designated by the
Recipient and acceptable to the World Bank ("Deposit Account"); and
2.    the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Grant into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
7


﻿Recipient's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
World Bank.
E.     Audit. Upon the World Bank's request, the Recipient shall:
1.    have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the World Bank;
2.    furnish to the World Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four (4) months after the date of the World Bank's request for such
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in
such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request; and
3.    furnish to the World Bank such other information concerning the Deposit
Account and its audit as the World Bank shall reasonably request.
F.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Grant shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank
determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment
for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
World Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the
World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.


﻿APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the World Bank
has financed or agreed to finance, or which the World Bank has financed
or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the World Bank by notice to the
Recipient:
Group          Sub-group        Description of Item
112                             Alcoholic beverages
121                             Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                             Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                             Radioactive and associated
materials
667                             Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718            718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728            728.43           Tobacco processing machinery
897            897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
9


﻿(b)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
agreements to which the Recipient is a party);
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds,
without the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and
appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank address such practices
when they occur.
2.     "2009 Ministerial Ordinance" means the ministerial ordinance titled Ordonnance
Ministerielle No. 540/1400 du 2 Novembre 2009 Portant Fixation des Droits
d'Accise sur les Carburants.
3.    "Pre-cooperatives Groups" means structures organized as defined in Projet de
Loi No. 1/... du ... /2011 Portant Cadre Organique des Groupements Pre-
coopiratifs, submitted to Parliament by the Recipient's first vice-President on
August 18, 2011.
4.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated October 2011 from the Recipient to the World Bank
declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the World Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
5.    "REGIDESO" means the Recipient's water and electricity production company
established under the laws of the Recipient, and any successor thereto.
6.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
10


﻿7.     "Standard Conditions" means the "Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the
World Bank out of Various Funds", dated July 31, 2010, with the modifications
set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
Section II.  Modifications to the Standard Conditions
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:
1.     Sections 2.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 2.07 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
2.     Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
3.     Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.04. Documents; Records. The Recipient shall ensure that:
...    (c)   all records evidencing expenditures under the Grant are
retained until two years after the Closing date;"
4.     Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I above) is modified to
read as follows:
"Section 2.05. Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. The
Recipient shall:
...    (b)(ii) ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank,
not later than six months after the Closing Date, a completion report of
such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the
Recipient and the World Bank of their respective obligations under the
Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant."
5.     The last sentence of Section 3.04 (d) (relating to Applications for Withdrawal) is
deleted in its entirety.
11


﻿6.     Sections 3.05 (Designated Accounts) and 3.06 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered
accordingly.
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to
read as follows:
'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Grant is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Grant Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in
the Appendix are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term  "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its
definition is modified to read as follows:
"' Program' means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in
support of which the Grant is made."  All references to "Project"
throughout these Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program".
12


