 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14836

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                            Date Posted: 10/14/2015

                 Country: Burundi
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                   Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                2
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                2
             Series ID: S119324
       First Project ID : P119324                                               Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Burundi Fifth               Project Costs (US$M):                     43.8                  42.7
                          Economic Reform
                          Support Grant ERSG
                          V
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                        35                  33.9
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy          Cofinancing (US$M):                       8.8                   8.8

          Cofinanciers: Government of Norway         Board Approval Date :                                 12/15/2011
                                                            Closing Date:             12/31/2012           12/31/2012
          Sector(s):   General public administration sector (39%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector
                       (25%); Oil and gas (12%); Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (12%); General
                       industry and trade sector (12%)
         Theme(s):     Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (43%); State-owned enterprise
                       restructuring and privatization (29%); Global food crisis response (14%); Infrastructure
                       services for private sector development (14%)
    Second Project ID :P117510                                                    Appraisal              Actual
        Project Name:  Burundi-fourth              Project Costs (US$M):                     34.5                34.6
                       Economic Reform
                       Support Grant - ERSG
                       IV
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       25                25.1
      Sector Board:    Economic Policy               Cofinancing (US$M):                      9.5                 9.5
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                 12/09/2010
           Cofinancers:Government of Norway                 Closing Date:             12/31/2011           12/31/2011
          Sector(s):   Central government administration (58%), General industry and trade sector (17%), General
                       public administration sector (17%), General energy sector (8%)
         Theme(s):     Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (50%), State-owned enterprise
                       restructuring and privatization (17%), Other Private Sector Development (17%), Urban
                       services and housing for the poor (8%), Rural services and infrastructure (8%)
Evaluator:              Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                  Group:
                                                Coordinator:
Jorge Garcia-Garcia     Mauricio Carrizosa      Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The objectives are taken from the main text of the program document for the Fourth and Fifth Economic Reform
    Support Grant (ERSG IV and ERSG V). The financing and grant agreements do not define objectives. The
    objectives were stated as follows:
    Objective 1. Improving budget credibility, planning, and controls (ERSG IV par. 77 and ERSG V par. 49);
    Objective 2. Promoting private sector development (ibid.); and
    Objective 3. Coping with the effects of food and fuel crisis (ERSG V par. 51 and Table 6). This objective was
    added in the ERSG V.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    Policy Area 1: Public finance management. The policy area focused on strategic planning to improve budget
    credibility and the quality of public spending, on improving procedures and practices for public finance
    management, and on actions on human resource management to help control the wage bill.

    Policy Area 2: Private sector development. The policy area focused on promoting investment and private sector
    development, restructuring and privatizing public enterprises, and modernizing the export sectors.

    Policy Area 3: Food and fuel crisis. The ERSG V included this policy area in the program. The program focused
    on alleviating the impact of higher international prices of food and fuel on the welfare of the most vulnerable
    groups. It covered two areas: spending on safety nets and reducing excise taxes on diesel, kerosene and
    gasoline.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The program consisted of two grants, the first one for $25 million dollars and the second one for $35 million
    dollars. The first grant, ERSG IV, was approved by the Executive Board on December 9, 2010, became effective
    on January 21, 2011, and closed on December 31, 2011. The second grant, ERSG V, was approved by the
    Executive Board on December 15, 2011, became effective on January 11, 2012, and was closed on December
    31, 2012. The grants were fully disbursed, and closed on schedule. The Government of Norway co-financed the
    two operations, with $9.5 million for ERSG IV and $8.8 million for ERSG V.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

    The objectives had substantial relevance. They were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
    FY 2009-2012, with the government’s program, and dealt with relevant problems in the country. The program
    supported the two strategic objectives of the CAS [promote sustainable and broad-based economic growth, and
    improve access to social services] as well as its cross-cutting objective of governance. The program supported
    the government’s program described in the poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) of 2006; the PRSP served
    as a basis for the Bank’s CAS. The government’s priorities were reconfirmed in the development policy letter
    signed by the Ministry of Finance for the two credits. The program also sought to help Burundi recover from the
    substantial income losses it suffered from the internal war that ended in 2000. On the public sector, Burundi has
    difficulties in maintaining a high quality of public expenditure. On the external sector, Burundi relies for its foreign
    exchange earnings on exports of coffee, on which the government has substantial influence as it monopolizes its
    processing and marketing, as a result of which the share of high quality coffee in total output fell from 70 percent
    to about 10 percent in the 1990s. Moreover, as a net importer of food and fuel, rising international prices of these
    commodities stoked inflation, reduced food security, and reduced real incomes, especially of the most vulnerable
    people.

b. Relevance of Design:

    The design had substantial relevance. The program objectives were clear, and the prior actions selected were
    relevant to achieve the first two objectives of the program. That is not the case for the third objective, which lacks
    a coherent and convincing results framework and where the prior action selected has no clear relation with the
    results expected.
    On the specific objectives, the program took the required first steps to improve budget planning, the quality of
    public expenditure, and transparency, such as having a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF), aligning
    the annual budget with the MTEF, complying with the annual cash management plan, disclosing to the public the
    budget law and its implementation, and controlling better the wage bill. On private sector development access to
   power remains a substantial constraint on growth, which the program sought to alleviate by improving the
   financial situation of the electricity company (a main reason for the frequent blackouts). Furthermore, the
   government’s monopoly of coffee processing and marketing has been a constraint on productivity which the
   program sought to deal with -partially -through the privatization of state-owned washing stations. On the other
   hand, strengthening the investment promotion agency has little relevance to improve the investment climate in
   Burundi, which is affected by serious problems (e.g., security) that such an agency is unlikely to resolve. On the
   third objective - -coping with the effects of the food and fuel prices crisis- the reduction of fuel taxes was linked
   with the negative impact of extremely high oil prices on poverty in rural areas. The TTL later explained that the
   tax for kerosene was reduced because this fuel is used by poor families who lack electricity and for road
   transportation whose cost increased thereby affecting the price of consumer goods in rural areas and the price of
   agricultural products. He also explained that allocating a share of the budget for school feeding and health
   programs for pregnant women and young children intended to ensure that people in these groups would be
   somewhat protected from the crisis and that donor support would continue as donors saw that allocation as a
   sign of government commitment to protect groups that the donor community was willing to help support. Last, the
   macro framework supporting the operation was sound, as the country was meeting the targets set in the poverty
   reduction and growth facility programs with the IMF.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Objective 1: Improving budget credibility, planning, and controls (Public Financial Management) [Substantial]

   Strengthening strategic and budget planning to improve the quality of public spending. The program expected to
   achieve this sub-objective by strengthening strategic planning and budget preparation. To this end, the program
   required that the Ministry of Finance and Planning develop a central MTEF for the period 2011-13 and adopt a
   budget framework consistent with it when preparing the budget law for 2012. The objective was substantially
   achieved: except for a few small ministries, the national budget defined the spending thresholds for budget
   allocations in line with the MTEF.

   Reinforcing PFM systems and their transparency. The program expected to achieve this sub-objective by having
   a reliable information system, improving cash management, and reducing interior payments arrears (e.g., arrears
   to suppliers). To achieve these goals, the government would have to comply with its annual cash management
   plan, issue a decree establishing general regulations on public financial management, and disclose to the public
   its budget law for 2011 and the corresponding reports on implementing the law for the first two quarters of 2011.
   At the end of the program, the arrears had been reduced to zero, reflecting better cash management, and the
   2011 budget appeared in the website of the Ministry of Finance, indicating a move to make the system more
   transparent. The ICR does not report on whether the execution reports were published in the Ministry’s web site
   and on the status of publication of budget laws and execution reports at the end of 2012, as envisaged in the
   program’s results framework. The number for arrears indicates that the intended result was achieved, but having
   the budget law published in the web site does not ensure that financial management is more reliable. On the
   latter, this review agrees with the ICR comment that publishing budget laws and budget execution reports on the
   website of the Ministry of Finance “will not have a strong immediate impact” since access to internet is very
   limited in Burundi” (par. 32a, last bullet)..

   Improving the management of the public wage bill. The program expected to achieve this sub-objective through
   the installation of new payroll software interfaced with the country’s public finance management information
   system (SIGEFI). With the system in place, the program expected that SIGEFI would handle 100 percent of the
   civilian wage bill and the government would reduce the wage bill to 11 percent of GDP by December 31, 2012. At
   the end of the program, SIGEFI was handling the entire wage bill. The ICR lacks information on the wage bill at
   the end of 2012; but reports that by December 31, 2011, the wage bill reached 12 percent of GDP, 1.0
   percentage point above the target.

   On balance, achievement of the objective is rated Substantial.

   Objective 2: Promoting private sector development [Modest]

   Improving the legal and regulatory framework for private sector development. The program expected to achieve
   this sub-objective by strengthening the investment promotion agency, and improving the electricity company’s
   financial viability and its provision of electricity. For the investment promotion agency, success would be
   measured by the time it took the agency to process a dossier, and by the increase in the number of dossiers and
   of investment registered with it by December 31, 2012. Two of the indicators were achieved: the agency reduced
   from 4 weeks to three days the time it took processing a dossier and the number of dossiers registered with it
   reached 120, 20 more than those recorded in 2009. No information exists for the amount of investment
   registered, which should be a result associated with the faster processing of the dossiers. For the electricity
   company, the expected results were not achieved: there is no information on blackouts per month and on the
   frequency of unplanned interruption in Bujumbura; on the coverage of the prepayment program for non-industrial
   subscribers, the ICR reports that those covered reached 75 percent at the end of 2011, but does not report
   figures for 2012, when coverage should have reached 100 percent.

   Promoting private investment through improvements in the economic infrastructure. The program expected to
   achieve this sub-objective by the government starting the restructuring or privatization of 5 public enterprises. At
   the end of the program, the process had been started for 3 public enterprises. Restructuring the export crop
   sector. The program expected to achieve this sub-objective with the sale of at least 60 washing stations in the
   coffee sector, but only 41 were sold.

   On balance, achievement of the objective is rated Modest.

   Objective 3. Coping with the effects of food and fuel crisis [Substantial]

   The targets associated with this objective were attained. To help cope with the effects of increases in prices the
   program set as prior action reducing the excise taxes for kerosene, diesel, and gasoline, which the government
   did. The government also increased the share of the national budget allocated to school feeding programs in
   primary schools to 0.7 percent and to free health care program for children under five and pregnant women to 1.7
   percent, meeting the targets set in the program. The review concludes that the targets were attained, and there
   is a presumption that the objective was achieved.

   On balance, achievement of the objective is rated Substantial.

   Macroeconomic framework

   Burundi was engaged with IMF programs in the years prior to the Bank’s program and during its execution. In an
   ex-post assessment of its poverty reduction and growth facility (PRGF) programs for the years 2008-2011 the
   IMF concluded that the structural-fiscal objectives of the program had been largely met and that progress towards
   meeting other goals had been slower in part as a result of exogenous shocks (IMF Country Report No 11/269,
   September 2011). The report notes that it was possible (although not easy) to stabilize inflation despite food and
   energy price shocks, that fiscal sustainability was still at risk, and that improving the quality of public expenditure
   remains a challenge. In the years that followed the implementation of the IMF and Bank’s programs Burundi has
   maintained macroeconomic stability, adjusting its fiscal accounts as budget support declined and tightening its
   monetary policy in response to food and fuel price shocks. GDP growth during 2012-2014 has hovered around
   4.4 percent per year. The authorities have reduced domestic debt from 17 to 12 percent of GDP between 2010
   and 2014 and kept non-concessional external public borrowing at zero. Total expenditure fell from 35 percent of
   GDP in 2012 to 30 percent of GDP in 2014, in response to the fall in revenues from 31 to 28 percent of GDP
   during the same period. Burundi remains at a high risk of debt distressed, in part as a result of its narrow export
   base (coffee and tea account for 80 percent of merchandise exports). In case of negative external shocks the
   fiscal space for counter cyclical policies is limited but Burundi’s policy of exchange rate flexibility constitutes an
   effective tool to respond to those shocks.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The program presented substantial achievements in public financial management as well as in coping with the
   effects of the food and fuel crisis. On PFM, the program helped in strengthening budget planning and reinforced
   PFM systems and their transparency but fell short of achieving its objective of improving the management of the
   public wage bill. On coping with the food and fuel crisis, the government reduced taxes on fuel to help poor
   people, but mainly those in rural areas affected by the increasing costs of transport and the consequent increase
   in food prices this would trigger. On budget allocations the government delivered what it had committed, ensuring
   that vulnerable groups could be protected and that donors would support theseprogram after seeing the
   government's commitment to them. On private sector development the program fell short of achieving its
   objectives of restructuring the export crop sector, promoting private investment by improving the economic
   infrastructure, and improving the legal and regulatory framework. In summary, with modest efficacy in one of
   three objectives and substantial relevance of objectives and design the outcome of the program is rated
   moderately satisfactory .
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The program faces significant risks that could result from a deterioration of the political and security situation,
    further decline in donor support, worsening terms of trade as international coffee prices fall, and a slowdown in
    growth as a result of slower growth in the world economy. To these risks should be added the ones associated
    with the limited technical and managerial capacity in the country, which could prevent further reforms in public
    financial management, in public enterprises and in the privatization policy that the program supported. Failure to
    continue with PFM reforms could lead donors to curtail their support, putting pressure on the fiscal accounts and
    preventing the government from delivering the limited social protection programs in place.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank prepared the program using the knowledge gained through several pieces of AAA and from its
experience in preparing and executing ERSG II and III. The studies and the policy dialogue accompanying these
activities permitted to prepare a program which in most instances had sound objectives and prior actions
appropriate to deliver the expected results. The Bank may have been too optimistic on the political support for the
privatization program and did not assess correctly the capacity and authority of the General Directorate of Public
Enterprises (SCEP) to execute the program. Also, the Bank may have been optimistic in considering that budget
allocations for social programs translate automatically in actual expenditure and guaranteeing effective protection
for vulnerable groups. Last, in selecting some results indicators, M&E design could have paid more attention to
ensure that they could ascertain better whether the objectives were achieved.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:

   The quick disbursing nature of the two grants did not require formal supervision, but there was de facto
supervision of ERSG IV during the preparation of ERSG V. The supervision of ERSG V led in turn to the ERSG VI
approved in 2012. The discussion of the program for ERSG V was accompanied by discussion on achievements
and failures of ongoing development policy operations, on ways to improve the performance of the government,
and on how to adjust some of the program’s actions and policy areas. The dialogue is reflected in aide-memoires
but not in formal implementation status reports.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


    The government carried out the actions needed to execute the public finance management part of the
    program but fell short of doing so for the reforms included in its private sector development part, especially
    the privatization of public enterprises. The government carried out extensive consultations with stakeholders,
    including grassroots organizations, when preparing the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper that informed this
    program, and kept in place a macroeconomic environment that supported the two grants. It also implemented
    its M&E program in an effective manner.
  Government Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The Ministry of Finance dealt with matters of public financial management and carried out the tasks assigned
    to it. The General Directorate of Public Enterprises did not carry out the privatization program, because the
    privatization lacked political support and the agency lacked the staff and the authority necessary to carry out
    and supervise that program.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The program had clear objectives and sub-objectives and most of the indicators were appropriate to determine
   achievement of objectives. The indicators were measurable and had a baseline value. The administration
   managed the M&E system which depended on a Coordinating Technical Unit that followed implementation of the
   reform program; the Unit reports to the Policy Committee which the Minister of Finance presides. The Policy
   Committee, whose members represented several ministries and the second Vicepresidency, supervised earlier
   grants (ERSG II and III) and ERSG IV and V.

b. M&E Implementation:

    Most of the planned data collection was carried out and the indicators measured, but based on the information
   presented in section H of the ICR it would appear that the end-of-program data (December 31, 2012) were not
   collected. If the data were not available, the ICR does not say so; if they were not collected, the ICR does not
   explain why. The monitoring system worked better in matters of public finance management and budget planning
   and execution, managed by the Ministry of Finance, than in the public enterprise privatization program, with
   oversight from the Directorate General of Public Enterprises, an agency with weaknesses in its human resources
   and managerial structure.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The numbers collected for ERSG IV informed the discussion for the preparation of ERSG V, which helped identify
   potential implementation issues and led to modify the selection or design of triggers and prior actions for ERSG
   V.

 M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    The ICR does not report any issue.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR does not report any issue.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    None
d. Other:
    None


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons derive from the ICR.

         Complex political situations and capacity constraints largely explain the slow execution of major program
          components. This finding suggests that program execution and achievements are likely to suffer if during
          program preparation the Bank pays insufficient attention to evaluating the political feasibility of the reform
          agenda and the capacity of the national institutions to execute the reforms.
         A comprehensive approach to sector reform, one combining essential policy measures with investments
          designed to help exploit the benefits of improved policies, is likely to produce better results than one
          focused entirely on policy reform. The coffee sector exemplifies this lesson. The long-term success of the
          reform will depend both on improving sector regulations and privatizing facilities and on improving
          cultivation practices and rehabilitating aging plantations.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is concise, has the information needed to validate it, and discusses the achievements and shortcomings
    of the program in a direct manner. The ICR has three shortcomings. First, when summarizing the results of the
    program in Section F, it concludes in several instances that the result was achieved based on the intermediate
    values of the indicators rather than on their values at the end of the program. Second, in section 3.2
    [Achievement of PDO] the ICR does not discuss results based on the indicators defined in the program
    documents, but on indicators largely different from the ones presented in Section F. Third, the section on risks to
    development outcomes looks at the factors that could mitigate the risks to the results of the program instead of
    identifying the risks to its results. The ICR also failed to discuss the adequacy of the results chain in its section on
    relevance of design.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
