                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 26963

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (IDA-27880 TF-20959)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR $66.3 MILLION
                          (US$98.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                  MOZAMBIQUE

                                     FOR A

                      HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM




                                   April 13, 2004




Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 23, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
                                   Mt 1.00 = US$ 0.000043
                                 US$ 1.00 = Mt 23,155

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                 Government Fiscal Year:    January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     African Development Bank
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CRDS    Regional Center for Health Development
DANIDA  Danish Agency for Development Assistance
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DO      Development Objective
DFID    Department for International Development
EU      European Union
FINIDA  Finnish International Development Agency
GACOPI  Gabinete de Coordenação de Projectos de Investimento (Program Management
        Unit)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HIS     Health Information System
HSRP    Health Sector Recovery Project
IDA     International Development Agency
MDG     Millennium Development Goal
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MHS     Mozambique National Health Strategy
MPF     Ministry of Planning and Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
NORAD   Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OPEC    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PESS    Strategic Plan for the Health Sector
PMU     Program Management Unit
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SAREC   Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation
SDC     Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SDR     Special Drawing Right
SIDA    Swedish International Development Agency
STI     Sexually Transmitted Infection
SWAp    Sector Wide Approach
TTL     Task Team Leader
UN      United Nations

UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNFPA   United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF  United Nations Fund for Children
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WFP     World Food Program
WHO     World Health Organization




                          Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                        Country Director     Darius Mans
                          Sector Manager     Dzingai Mutumbuka
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jean J. De St Antoine

                                       MOZAMBIQUE
                              HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P001792                                                  Project Name: Health Sector Recovery
Team Leader: Jean J. De St Antoine                                   TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 13, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Sector Recovery                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-27880; TF-20959
   Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (88%); Central government administration (12%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Child health (P); Nutrition and food
                            security (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/29/1989                                     Effective: 04/30/1996                04/30/1996
     Appraisal: 09/03/1992                                         MTR: 12/17/1999                  12/17/1999
      Approval: 11/30/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 08/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Stephen Denning
Country Director:               Darius Mans                                    Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Roger Grawe
Team Leader at ICR:             Jean-Jacques De St Antoine                     Ricardo Silveira
ICR Primary Author:             Jean-Jacques De St Antoine;
                                Katherine Tulenko


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Health Sector Recovery Program (HSRP) was the second Bank-financed health sector
project in Mozambique and the first to move toward a sector-wide approach. Its objective as
stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was to support the Mozambican National Health
Strategy (MHS), i.e. "the improvement of the health status of the population, in general, and a
decrease in infant and child mortality in particular". It was expected that the project would help
increase coverage of the population by health services from 40 to 60 percent. These objectives
were clear and important for the sector and country and were in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). They predated the introduction of Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), but
they are in line with them.

Before the HSRP, the financing of the Mozambique Health System was fragmented as, in addition
to the government, it was financed by a large number of donors who each supported an individual
project. No clear picture of the overall financing was available. Some stand-alone investment
projects were started without planning for recurrent costs after the end of the project. The
Bank-supported HSRP helped bring together the MOH and donors to support one coherent
strategy and investment plan. This program financed a time slice of the MHS estimated at
US$355.7 million over a period of five years, expected to run from 1996 to 2000. IDA's share
was estimated at USS$98.7 million, i.e. less than one third, the difference being financed by the
government (US$ 116.5 million) and other donors (US$140.5 million). The components that the
Bank funded were not meant to be a cohesive unit in themselves, but represented the components
of the MHS where the Bank had the comparative advantage over other donors. The program was
a movement toward a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) with the objective for a group of donors to
support a common government program, thus reducing the transaction costs for the government
of working with multiple donors and multiple projects. The program was not a full-fledged SWAp
because, at the time of preparation, the SWAp concept was new and controversial and insisting
on its use for this operation would have delayed program implementation. The elements of a
SWAp that the program contained were: joint planning by the MOH and donors, funding of the
national health strategy rather than stand-alone projects, annual MOH-donor reviews with
re-setting of targets, and consolidation of all budgets, planning, and information in the MOH. By
being sector-wide, the program approach was designed to provide an overall operational
framework for the MOH, helping it to coordinate projects undertaken by all donors. Over time, it
was expected that a significant portion of off-budget expenditures would be moved into the
budget, thus increasing transparency and efficiency.

The program as a whole was ambitious. The HSRP had three components and 15 subcomponents.
This complexity, however, no doubt reflects the desire of the government to restore its health
system that had been significantly damaged during the fifteen-year civil war, as well as the Bank's
desire to support the government in its endeavor. Efforts were made by the Bank team to
streamline the government's ambitions. Originally the government requested 2.5 times more
funding. The Bank team persuaded the MOH to reduce the scope of the program, especially since,
at the time of preparation of the HSRP, the first Bank-financed health project in Mozambique,
Health I, was disbursing slowly and had to be restructured and extended.




                                                 - 2 -

The project was also geographically complex because activities would be implemented in
scattered rural areas with poor road access, making it difficult for contractors and project staff to
work and for the MOH to supervise their activities. To give the MOH the flexibility to manage its
rapidly evolving health system, the program would be revised annually to account for changes in
the availability of financing and evolving priorities. The complex and risky nature of the project
was acknowledged in the SAR and it was rightly determined to be more risky not to invest in the
sector, especially with its rapidly deteriorating health system.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objective was relevant and remained unchanged throughout the project period.

3.3 Original Components:
The project's three components (referred to as domains in the SAR) support a slice of the MHS
that serves as a framework for all donor contributions to the sector. Although the scope of the
components may have been too ambitious, their content was appropriate for the needs of
Mozambique and they were pulled directly from the MHS.                MHS is a donor-approved,
client-owned comprehensive plan for reconstructing and improving the primary and secondary
levels of health care, particularly in poor districts. The targeted districts were the least serviced
areas of the country and also those most affected by the war. In addition to IDA, the overall
program was financed by a group of sixteen donors including notably the African Development
Bank (ADB), the Danish Agency for Development Assistance (DANIDA), the U.K Department
for International Development (DFID), the European Union (EU), the Finnish International
Development Agency (FINIDA), Italy, the Netherlands, the Norwegian Agency for Development
Cooperation (NORAD), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and five
United Nations (UN) agencies. Listed here are only the components that IDA funded. They are
the ones for which IDA had a comparative advantage or for which it was the donor of last resort.
It was agreed that as grant money became available for certain subcomponents, it would be used
as a priority before the IDA credit.

Component A: Health Services Delivery (US$ 62.8 million). This component aimed to
improve health service delivery through: (i) the construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of
infrastructure and equipment at the primary and secondary levels of the health system; and (ii) the
stabilization of provision of consumables such as pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents, medical
supplies, and food for inpatients.

Subcomponent A.1: Health Facilities Development (US$ 16.6 million). This subcomponent was
to fund: (i) the construction or rehabilitation and extension of three rural hospitals and staff
housing; (ii) equipment for the hospitals, kitchens, and laundry; and (iii) the purchase of motor
vehicles and bicycles. The project would also fund medical supplies, pharmaceuticals, laboratory
reagents, and maintenance.

Subcomponent A.2: Rural Health Development Fund (US$ 15.2 million). This subcomponent
intended to fund the construction and complete outfitting of 240 rural primary health facilities and
600 houses for health staff. Its aim was to improve equity of facility distribution and access to



                                                  - 3 -

care. The facilities were to be planned and built in a participatory way via partnership among the
MOH, communities, and local governments.

Subcomponent A.3: Laboratories Strengthening (US $2.6 million). This subcomponent intended
to rehabilitate 12 laboratory facilities in primary and secondary health facilities and to finance
laboratory reagents, equipment, furniture, and maintenance.

Subcomponent A.4: Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies Program (US$ 19.6 million). This
subcomponent intended to finance the procurement and distribution of 10 percent of the country's
needs in pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents, materials, and medical supplies during the life of
the program.

Subcomponent A.5: National Maintenance Program (US$ 2.7 million). This subcomponent
intended to help decentralize the maintenance of health facilities through the provision of repair
equipment, vehicles, spare parts, technical assistance in hospital maintenance management, and
training of maintenance workers.

Subcomponent A.6: General Province Operations (US$ 6.1 million).                 This subcomponent
intended to support the health system in general by financing non-salary recurrent costs of
provincial health operations.

Component B: Institutional Support (US$ 14.8 million). This component intended to
strengthen health management and administrative capacity.

Subcomponent B.1: Supply System Improvement (US$2.7 million). This subcomponent intended
to finance: (i) the development of standard lists of medical supplies; (ii) the policy development
and implementation of a supply system for drugs and supplies; (iii) the training of MOH staff to
run the system; and (iv) civil works and equipment for construction and upgrading of warehouses
in Pemba, Lichinga, and Beira.

Subcomponent B.2: Provincial Health Management Improvement (US$ 2.7 million).                 This
subcomponent was to fund: (i) the identification of management problem areas; (ii) computers and
equipment to improve personnel and finance management; (iii) minor civil works and office
supplies; and (iv) partial needs for supervision of the provincial health system.

Subcomponent B.3: Information System Improvement (US$1.3 million). This subcomponent
intended to finance: (i) the development and installation of an information system for provincial
hospitals and strengthening of data collection and processing at the primary and secondary levels
of the health system; (ii) computer equipment for provincial hospitals and a pilot system to
transfer data between the provincial and central levels; and (iii) goods and services to run the
health information system over a period of two and a half years.

Subcomponent B.4: Program Management (US$ 6.9 million). This subcomponent intended to
improve program management at the central and provincial level. It was to finance: (i) technical
assistance to strengthen the MOH capacity to implement program activities; (ii) 10 provincial



                                                 - 4 -

coordinators and other staff; (iii) part of the operating costs of the Program Management Unit
(GACOPI); (iv) vehicles and equipment; (v) studies to support policy development; (vi) technical
assistance to improve the monitoring and evaluation system; and (vii) preparation of tender
documents for future projects of the MOH.

Component C: Human Resources Development (US$ 21.1 million). This component intended
to strengthen Mozambique's human resources for health through improved training.

Subcomponent C.1: Health Manpower Development Plan Implementation (US$13.6 million). The
subcomponent intended to finance a five-year "time-slice" of the government's Health Manpower
Development Plan that had been developed under Health I. It would include the financing of: (i)
the implementation of 48 courses; and (ii) scholarships for students covering subsistence, travel,
and rural practice activities.

Subcomponent C.2: Training Capacity Improvement (US$ 4.7 million). The subcomponent was
to finance: (i) civil works to rehabilitate and extend the training institutes in Maputo, Beira, and
Nampula and the training centers in Chicumbane and Chicuque; (ii) furniture; (iii) training
materials and equipment; and (iv) motor vehicles. These investments would complement those
started under the Health I project.

Subcomponent C.3: In-service Training Improvement (US$ 2.3 million). This component
intended to finance: (i) in-service training courses in the Regional Center for Health Development
(CRDS) in Maputo; (ii) technical assistance in continuing education development and
management; and (iii) in-service training courses at the provincial level.          It differed from
subcomponent C.1 in that C.1's main purpose was to train staff and C.3's main purpose was to
restructure in-service training (curriculum, planning, management, support, priorities, etc).

Subcomponent C.4: Faculty of Medicine Support (US$ 0.6 million). This component intended to
finance: (i) textbooks and reference material; (ii) the setting up and managing of rural internships,
and (iii) a minibus to transport students to rural internships.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no change in project components, including at the mid-term review. This is because of
the flexibility of the design. The definition of the components was broad enough to allow more
detailed activities to be brought in, if necessary, as project implementation evolved. .

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory

One of the major attributes of the project design was the advancement of the program concept.
When the program was prepared, there were over 120 separate donor funded health projects in
Mozambique and it was felt by all parties that adding yet another project would over-burden the
already-stretched managerial capacity of the MOH and reinforce the province-by-province
fragmentation of the health system. Given that the government had a health sector strategy
endorsed by all, it was agreed by all parties that the Bank should fund part of a sector wide
program.     Although not technically a SWAp, the program was one of the first innovative


                                                  - 5 -

sector-wide programs to be financed by the Bank in Africa and was therefore progressive. It was
one of the first few attempts to harmonize donor procurement, supervision, and reporting.

There was a long time between the project concept document and appraisal (3 years) and between
appraisal and approval (2 years). There are four reasons for this. First, project design was started
before the 1992 peace agreement. At the time, part of the country was still under rebel control
and was not included in the project area. Significant work was required to redesign a project
covering the whole country. Second, the project was originally designed as a traditional
stand-alone investment operation and later evolved into a program concept. Third, the Health I
project was still under implementation and the government was reluctant to start a second
operation before the closing of the first one. Fourth, getting agreement of all donors took time.

Each component had a direct causal link to the achievement of the development objective (DO)
and was well designed. The program was to be implemented by the MOH through its various
departments. Responsibility for investment in civil works and equipment belonged to GACOPI, a
unit within the Directory of Planning of the MOH that had been created under Health I. As a large
part of the project consisted in facilities improvement and expansion, and GACOPI had developed
knowledge and experience in procurement and financial management in addition to engineering, it
took a leading role in the implementation of the HSRP.

The design of Component A was consistent with the DO in that it sought to rebuild and expand
the health network that had been severely damaged by the civil war. The civil works that
constituted the majority of the cost of this component were to be contracted out and it was well
within GACOPI's capacity to supervise such contracts. Component A, as well as all the other
components, took into account experience from the Bank-financed Health I project. The main
lessons on project design included: (i) the need for terms of reference and procurement documents
to be prepared as much as possible during project preparation; (ii) the importance of having an
adequately staffed management team to implement the project; (iii) the desirability of having
implementing institutions participate in the design of project components; and (iv) the need to
limit the number of studies in line with the MOH's absorptive capacity.

Component B was relevant to the DO, because a strengthening of the MOH capacity both at the
central and provincial levels were necessary to achieve sustainable improvements in health
outcomes.

Component C was also relevant to the DO, given Mozambique's lack in number and quality of
health professionals. The project design could have been more ambitious if it had tapped into the
private sector to more rapidly expand the training system.

The program was in full compliance with environmental safeguards. It was intended to fund the
design of national guidelines for medical waste disposal and the evaluation of waste disposal. The
program was also to introduce "proper sanitary conditions" into all health facilities constructed or
refurbished. The building of the facilities did not involve the resettling of people or the disruption
of fragile environments. In an effort to reduce the carbon footprint of the program, solar panels
were to be installed on all the rural health centers and posts financed by IDA.



                                                  - 6 -

Despite the Bank's efforts to "right-size" the project by cutting it by 40 percent, the final design
may have stretched the MOH capacity, at least initially. This applies mainly to the design of
Component B in which provincial health management improvement (subcomponent B.2) and
information system improvement (B.3) suffered major delays. They ended up being largely
financed by other donors.

The program design would have benefited from taking advantage of more of the proven methods
in the "toolbox" of international development that existed at the time of preparation such as: (i)
beneficiary participation; and (ii) gender analysis. With the exception of the building of rural
health facilities, there was no beneficiary participation in the program's preparation,
implementation, or evaluation. In addition, while the SAR addresses women's and child health
issues, there is no gender analysis per se. Given the important role women play in the health of
the community, a gender analysis could have helped improved women's and children access to
services. Gender at that time was well established and best practices were readily available.

The question can be raised whether there was a missed opportunity to mitigate the explosion of
Mozambique's HIV/AIDS epidemic. In 1995, the HIV prevalence rate for sexually-transmitted
infection (STI) patients in Mozambique was 2.6 percent, much lower than in surrounding
countries such as South Africa (19 percent) and Zimbabwe (71 percent). Mozambique's lower
infection rate, likely due to the isolation caused by the civil war, represented a window of
opportunity to slow the expansion of the epidemic. Notably, health facilities that were
rehabilitated or built could have included space for voluntary counseling and testing, and staff
could have been trained. Other than a policy study (that was actually not undertaken), HIV/AIDS
prevention was not included in the project and by 1997 HIV prevalence in STI patients had
quadrupled to 12.2 percent. Later on, the government and the Bank did address the HIV/AIDS
epidemic and the HIV/AIDS Response Project (US$55 million grant) was approved by the Bank
on March 10, 2003.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory

The ultimate objective of the Mozambique National Health Strategy supported by the HSRP, as
stated in the SAR, was the improvement of the health status of the population in general, and a
decrease of maternal, infant, and child mortality. During the period of the program, infant
mortality decreased from 162 per 1,000 in 1996 to an estimated 101 in 2003 (Demographic
Health Survey 2003, draft). The intra-hospital maternal mortality rate fell from 186 per 100,000
live births in 1995 to 160 in 2002. Improvements in health outcomes during the period are the
result of the total investment program, of which IDA financing represented about 40 percent. By
improving coverage, training health staff and improving the distribution of basic drugs, the HSRP
has clearly contributed to the overall progress in outcomes. As health outcomes result from
multiple factors, these improvements also result from economic growth, improvements in
education, water and sanitation, and transport, among others. A table of selected indicators is



                                               - 7 -

presented below.

In the 1990s, Mozambique performed well compared to the rest of Africa. In terms of reduction
of infant mortality rate (IMR), Mozambique was the eighth best performer in Sub-Saharan Africa.
With a reduction of 11.9 percent from 1999-2000, it performed four times better than the average
(2.7 percent reduction). Better performers such as Ghana, Uganda, and Malawi spent 5-6 percent
of GDP over the period compared to 3.5 percent of GDP for Mozambique.

According to the SAR, the above outcomes were to be reached through an increase in the health
coverage of the population from 40 to 60 percent. However, coverage was not clearly defined in
the SAR and no monitoring system was put in place to track the evolution in coverage.
Nevertheless, there is evidence to say that coverage has significantly improved, as the population
per health center in the country decreased from 84,000 in 1995 to 42,000 in 2003, representing a
100 percent increase in coverage for health centers. This is the more remarkable considering that
Mozambique's total population increased by 16 percent during the same period (from 15.8 to 18.4
million). The population per health post remained about stable (about 25,000 per health post) in
line with the government's strategy to promote the development of health centers that have more
qualified staff and offer a broader range of services. During 1998-2000, as a result of the
government's objective of improving equity in supply of services, there was a particularly rapid
expansion in the disadvantaged provinces of Sofala, Gaza, Nampula, and Inhambane. Progress
was also made in Cabo Delgado, Zambezia, and Tete, but it was more modest. In line with the
increase in coverage, the output of services also increased: the percentage of children immunized
increased by 49 percent between 1991 and 2001, and the proportion of deliveries attended by a
trained provider increased by 73 percent between 1993 and 2002 (from 26 percent to 45 percent).

The project had significant achievements. It helped the government rehabilitate its network of
basic health care services that was partly damaged and destroyed during the civil war. This
program covered the renovation and expansion of rural health infrastructure, provision of
equipment, improvement of the supplies system, development and implementation of a
maintenance policy, and human resources development. In summary, the Bank has financed 40
percent of the government's successful integrated health sector recovery program, together with a
group of bilateral and multilateral partners.

The achievement of the DO is remarkable, especially given the one-year delay in effectiveness, the
damage wrought on the health system by HIV/AIDS and the 2000 floods, and the fact that many
of the indicators were ambitious for Mozambique.




        Key Indicator          Baseline  Goal   Latest Result % Achievement
Government expenditure ($       16.1      18.8       30.0        160%
million)
Vaccination coverage (DPT)      55%       80%        82%         103%
Antenatal care coverage (first  63%       80%        97%         153%
visit)
Institutional deliveries        29%       50%        48%          96%




                                                - 8 -

Outpatient consultations (per    0.37          0.6       0.9         150%
person per year)
No. of medium-level health         -           55    184 (average    335%
workers trained per year                              per year)
No. of basic-level health          -           237   307 (average    129%
workers trained per year                              per year)
Proportion of health posts       70%          100%       92%          92%
staffed with trained personnel
Proportion of first level        40%           80%       71%          89%
facilities stocked with drugs
Proportion of health centers     51%          100%       75%          75%
with an operational
refrigerator
Equity index Ratio of health     7.4                     4.4       Substantially
recurrent expenditures of most                                      improved
receiving province divided by
least receiving
Infant Mortality Rate            162           120    101 (2003)     120%
Under 5 Mortality rate           282           200       197         102%
Intra-hospital Maternal          234           100       164          61%
Mortality Rate
Client satisfaction              39%           75%      52.1%         69%
Population per health           84,000       50,000     42,000       119%
center


Sources: MOH and project data, DHS 2003 (draft)

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Health Services Delivery (US$ 62.8 million)
Satisfactory

Subcomponent A.1 Health Facilities Development. The rural hospital network was expanded
through the building of one rural hospital at Muxungue (Sofala province) and the rehabilitation
and expansion of two rural hospitals (Gurue in Zambezia province and Mueda in Cabo Delgado
province). This represents 25 percent of the rural hospitals built by the government during the
time period and corresponds to reductions in certain cases of up to 200 km in the distance that a
critically-ill person has to travel to reach a hospital. The expanded Gurue and Mueda hospitals
were 90 percent staffed in December 2003 and expected to be fully staffed soon after. Preliminary
data from Gurue indicates that its patient load has tripled. Since the hospitals have only recently
opened, there will be a time lag before the impact on the health of their communities can be
measured, but it is clear already that they have significantly improved access to emergency
surgical and obstetric services and helped redress imbalances between Maputo and the rest of the
country.

The credit financed the conversion of an unused building in the Maputo Central Hospital into a
new headquarters for GACOPI. The GACOPI headquarters are well built and maintained and are
an appropriate setting for the professional staff who work there. A commendable addition to the
civil works program was the satisfactory construction of a kindergarten for the low-level female
staff of the Maputo Central Hospital.

The success of this subcomponent was tempered by several problems that are currently being


                                                    - 9 -

addressed by the MOH. Although well located to serve a catchment area of 285,000 people, the
Muxungue hospital (whose site was relocated from Buzi after the 2000 floods) did not have
access to electricity by December 2003. Connection is expected to take place in about 2-3 years
when electricity is planned to reach nearby Chibabaya. In the mean time, the hospital is operating
diesel-powered generators whose running cost is expensive. To save costs, it operates generators
for essential lighting. A similar problem exists at Mueda, also equipped with diesel generators.
There, in addition to power saving, the hospital management has started negotiations with the
municipality to share power as well as the cost of operating the generator.

All facilities constructed saw some increase in costs. The overruns range from less than 15
percent (in the case of 8 out of 13 facilities) to much higher levels of 35 and 74 percent in the case
of two facilities. Increases have been adequately justified and in many cases, the adjustments
resulted in improved facilities. Reasons for cost overruns include the floods of 2000, which
required the relocation and delay in construction of some facilities, omission in tender documents
of items that were later added in (e.g. land-filling, fencing, ventilation, fire security or electrical
equipment), and poor quality design of some facilities requiring changes during construction.

Due to cost overruns within contracts, the number of houses built for staff was reduced, and if not
remedied, may compromise the MOH's ability to recruit and retain qualified staff for those
hospitals. Even though existing contracts may not have been able to cover the costs of all staff
houses (after the overruns), new contracts for housing could have been prepared by GACOPI and
financed by the Credit. In the case of the Muxungue hospital, the MOH is using its own funds to
build eight additional houses. Through its on-going policy dialogue with the government and in
coordination with other donors, the Bank is pressing the government to complete the construction
of an adequate number of staff houses. This is an important issue because of the difficulty of
attracting qualified staff to work in the provinces in remote locations. Given the constraints to
increase salaries, non-monetary incentives have an important role to play.




                                                  - 10 -

Subcomponent A.2: Rural Health Development. Early on in the program, the decision was made
to cancel the planned mix of health posts and health centers, and build only health centers. Two
factors influenced this decision: (i) preventive services such as community outreach and
immunization are available at health centers rather than the lower-level health posts; and (ii) health
centers are the first level that offer maternity beds. Because the construction of the more complex
health centers costs more than health posts, fewer facilities could be built, and the construction
goal was adjusted to 179 health centers. Ninety-four percent of the planned new health centers
were completed and determined to be satisfactory. This represents a 74 percent increase over the
baseline of 226 health centers in 1995. The health centers were built in seven provinces (Maputo,
Gaza, Inhambane, Sofala, Tete, Zambezia, and Nampula) that were chosen for poor health
indicators or rapid increase in population. By December 2003, 70 percent of the new health
centers had been fully staffed with two staff members while the rest had only one. A significant
proportion of this staff was trained through component C.1 of the program. The health centers
are each equipped with a solar panel to power lighting and a refrigerator for vaccines and drugs
(financed by Norway). In addition to the Bank-funded health centers, other health centers were
built or rehabilitated by other donors. Ten health centers not constructed had their contracts
terminated due to poor performance. There was not sufficient time for the contracts to be
re-awarded through the Bank-financed program and they will now be funded by the European
Union.

The importation and distribution of equipment for the health centers proved to be a logistical
challenge with considerable delays and cost overruns. For example, equipment often sat for
months in customs while warranties expired and some equipment was damaged en route from
Maputo to remote clinics. Another problem was that some products received were of much lower
quality than the original samples. Nevertheless, overall the equipment helped improve the quality
of equipment in health facilities and there is the general sense that the new equipment has
contributed to increased morale and productivity of the MOH staff.

Subcomponent A.3: Laboratories Strengthening. All twelve laboratories were rehabilitated using
other donor funds and were provided with equipment and reagents through IDA financing.
Laboratory workers were trained under component C.1 to improve the scope and quality of their
work. Some of the centrifuges and microscopes differed in quality from the demonstration
samples and broke within a few months of use. The contract guarantees could not be executed
because the equipment had taken five months to clear customs in the port of Maputo and the
guarantees had expired. The MOH is currently gathering data on the magnitude of the problem so
as to resolve it through repair or replacement. Overall, the MOH reports increased capacity and
higher utilization of laboratory services.

Subcomponent A.4: Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supply. This subcomponent was well
implemented and all drugs and supplies originally planned were procured. Through Bank and
other donor involvement, the MOH's ability to manage its drug supply has increased dramatically.
In addition to the Bank financing of drugs through the HSRP, other donors were actively involved
in the area of pharmaceuticals. A common fund, financed by eight other donors, started in 1997 to
rationalize pharmaceutical procurement. Expenditures run to US$15-20 million annually, of which



                                                 - 11 -

the government shoulders a small but growing share (US$3-4 million). Using international
tendering, the pool attains economies of scale. The MOH has administered it competently, with
assistance from the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC). As a result, there have been
improvements in the adequacy and predictability of medical supplies. For example, Mozambique
has had no stock-out of chloroquine in five years and no stock-out of Fancidar in three years.
During the life of the program, the MOH pharmacy office became more sophisticated in
pharmaceutical management and is currently considering contracting out the warehousing and
distribution of drugs that should increase efficiency and reduce costs.

Subcomponent A.5: National Maintenance Program. A large part of the National Maintenance
Program ended up being financed by Finnish Aid. IDA financing was used to purchase tools and
spare parts and to train workers through government maintenance training centers. The program
has helped the government: (i) formulate a national maintenance policy; (ii) develop a standard
equipment list; (iii) install an equipment inventory and maintenance information system that tracks
the maintenance and repairs for each piece of equipment; and (iv) install a Local Area Network of
computers with internet access that hosts the equipment databases and has improved
communication with provinces. The government has been successful in establishing a culture in
which the maintenance of civil works and equipment is a priority. Quality and timeliness of
maintenance have improved.

Maintenance has been decentralized with the creation of provincial and rural hospital maintenance
services. Each provincial hospital now has a workshop responsible for all equipment in its
catchment area. This decentralization has been accompanied by additional staffing: mid-level
engineers have been added to rural hospitals and three to five equipment technicians have been
added per province. The decentralized offices have been supplied with spare parts and basic repair
tool kits and a new ordering system has improved the availability of parts. Together, all these
changes have increased the MOH capacity to undertake repairs at the local level and has reduced
equipment down time.

Subcomponent A.6: General Province Operations. This subcomponent was entirely financed by
other donors and is not evaluated here.

Component B: Institutional Support (US$ 14.8 million)

Satisfactory

Subcomponent B.1: Supply System Improvement. The network of warehouses for drugs and
pharmaceutical supplies was improved through the building or rehabilitation of warehouses in
Beira, Pemba, and Lichinga, and the provision of equipment. Each warehouse has computers on
site that are linked to a country-wide network that tracks shipments and inventory. The credit also
financed the drawing of plans to convert an unused building in Maputo Central Hospital into a
Center for Drugs and Medical Supplies, which will be built with other donor funds. The new
warehouses have increased the MOH ability to store refrigerated vaccines and medicines and
improved the safe storage of flammable and toxic reagents.




                                                 - 12 -

Subcomponent B.2: Provincial Health Management Improvement. This was mostly financed by
other donors. IDA funds were used to purchase equipment and vehicles.

Subcomponent B.3: Information System Improvement. This component was largely financed by
the Italian Cooperation and WHO. They provided technical assistance, books, information
technology (IT) equipment, and consumables. As part of the investment, 117 computers with
e-mail capability were purchased by the MOH, allowing the switch from typewriters to word
processing, which should contribute to enhanced communications and efficiency. IDA funds were
used to design a master plan for IT in the MOH. Originally too ambitious, by December 2003,
the master plan was being revised after the introduction of a cost ceiling.

Subcomponent B.4: Program Management. Considerable progress was made in overall program
management capacity. Yearly reviews of the program by the MOH and the donors were
introduced, creating a culture of frequent evaluation and adjustment. The project has provided
critical support at the central level in health sector planning. It helped develop the new health
sector policy 2000-2010 and provided inputs to the Public Sector Expenditure Review and the
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework. It helped develop a "Code of Conduct" for MOH and
donor relations. GACOPI has significantly developed its capacity and has now become the
coordinator of nearly all MOH and donor financed investment. A more detailed analysis of
GACOPI is provided in the "institutional development impact" section. There is still, however,
much improvement to be made in the management of each department of the MOH as well as in
overall coordination. This issue is being addressed jointly by the MOH and donors.

The MOH Institute of Medicine received funds to perform four operational research studies. One
of the studies that are underway analyzes the current clinical management of malaria in
Mozambique in an effort to identify clinician misconceptions and operational bottlenecks. This
work shows promise and its abstract was presented at the annual meeting of the American Society
of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. For such studies to have an impact, the MOH needs to
streamline the process through which research findings are converted into policy. The other three
studies are more of the nature of basic research and probably should not have been funded.

Component C: Human Resource Development

Satisfactory

Subcomponent C.1: Health Manpower Development Plan Implementation. The MOH conducted
84 health professional courses, exceeding its goal of 48 courses. This was made possible because
the unit cost of courses ended up being much less than estimated at appraisal. A total of 2,543
health professionals were trained. The pre-service and in-service courses covered a variety of
primary and secondary health subjects including basic nursing techniques, pharmacy, dentistry,
basic obstetric and gynecology procedures, basic surgical procedures, and laboratory analysis. The
project helped train 14 percent of all the current clinical staff and greatly improved the quantity
and quality of human resources for health in Mozambique. The quality of the trainees was ensured
by a rigorous performance-based selection process and post-tests required for completion of the
courses. The prompt payment of instructors' fees (financed under the Credit) had the added



                                                - 13 -

benefit of dramatically improving the attendance rate of course teachers. Although no
program-wide evaluation has been performed, anecdotal evidence demonstrates an improvement
in the performance reviews of staff after the completion of a course. The Bank has recommended
that the MOH conduct an in-depth review of all the courses and the impact on worker
performance.

Subcomponent C.2: Training Capacity Improvement. This subcomponent helped the MOH
rehabilitate, expand, and outfit three high-level training institutes (Maputo, Beira, and Nampula)
and two medium-level training centers (Chicumbane and Chicuque). Although no precise data are
available, the MOH states that training conditions and student numbers have improved immensely
due to regular salaries for staff and the addition or upgrading of libraries, laboratories, and job
centers. IDA financing has increased the MOH's ability to train health workers at the provincial
level, thus complementing decentralization efforts and reducing the loss of staff to the private
sector that used to occur when provincial staff were trained in Maputo.

Subcomponent C.3: In-service Training Improvement.             Minimal progress was made in this
component due to time delays and lack of management resources.

Subcomponent C.4: Faculty of Medicine Support. This subcomponent helped improve rural
training of medical students and was successfully completed. Textbooks and reference material
on rural community medicine were purchased. In addition, the program funded a time slice of the
students' rural internship and a minibus was purchased for transporting students to their rural
posts. No rigorous evaluation has yet been undertaken. The Bank has recommended that the
MOH assess the extent to which the students who participated have improved their
comprehension of rural medicine and their desire to practice in rural areas. Although this was not
originally planned for, the credit also financed the rehabilitation of the Medical Faculty building.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
IDA financing has resulted in considerable institutional development. The program supported the
MOH's own system-wide design, and empowered the MOH to plan for itself rather than rely on
donors to plan projects for it. Coordination efforts between the MOH and donors led to annual
progress reviews. In addition, MOH-donor meeting now take place twice a month. The project
helped improve the MOH's organizational and management capabilities and has considerably
increased the technical skills within the MOH. The MOH capacity to manage construction
contracts has increased and this should make future construction more cost efficient.

Created in 1989, the GACOPI unit was expanded and strengthened via its administration of this
program. A contract with an international procurement agent helped speed up procurement as
well as develop GACOPI's capacity. GACOPI has corrected its financial management problems,
established two regional offices for better monitoring of contracts, and out-sourced procurement.



                                                 - 14 -

GACOPI has proved to be a cost-effective instrument to manage external funding especially for
investment in infrastructure and equipment. Over the program period, in addition to the HSRP,
GACOPI has been providing services to nine other projects supported by seven financiers, for a
total of US$164 million. As a result, it has developed economies of scale and its operating cost
represents 4.75 percent of total investment costs, an excellent performance compared to similar
organizations.

The strength of GACOPI lies in the fact that it had good managers, was adequately staffed and
experienced low staff turnover. GACOPI had two directors during the life of the program, and
both were good managers, well organized and motivated. The balance between GACOPI staff
and their workload was less stretched than that of the rest of the MOH, allowing them to produce
quality work. Because GACOPI was financed largely by external donors, it had no funding flow
problems, except when there were delays in receiving counterpart funds. The good leadership,
steady funding, and the prestige of working on internationally funded projects, helped GACOPI
attract and retain qualified workers.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The impact of factors outside the control of the government on the program was substantial.
During the project period, the entire southern African region was affected by a worldwide
economic depression as well as GDP losses due to HIV/AIDS. The Mozambique flood of 2000
was the worst in 150 years. It displaced 500,000-1,000,000 people, took 650 lives, and caused
more than US$300 million damage to the country. The program adapted well in relocating some
of the planned infrastructure investments, although this resulted in cost increases. In addition, the
post-conflict history of Mozambique posed logistical and social barriers to the success of the
program such as land mines, poor quality of rural roads, remaining tensions between the former
warring factions, and the resettlement of refugees.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors specifically under the control of the government also affected project achievement. On the
positive side, a major factor benefiting the project has been the achievement and maintaining of
peace in the country. On the negative side, the project was affected by some fiduciary factors. The
project got off to a bumpy start with a year long delay due to the government's desire to open a
Special Account in the central bank rather than a commercial bank as required by the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).

Government delays in providing counterpart funds resulted in implementation delays, especially
for drugs and equipment that were held in the port of Maputo for up to six months, during which
stock-outs occurred and warranties expired.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
GACOPI's initial weaknesses in financial and contracting procedures led to delays that could have
been avoided. For example, because of a lack of back-up procedures, GACOPI lost access to its
computerized financial records when its financial manager died in an accident. Because of the
difficulties of finding a qualified candidate as well as delays in obtaining the clearance of the
Ministry of Planning and Finance, it took two years to hire a replacement, and during that time,


                                                     - 15 -

transactions were documented manually.

Audits revealed deficiencies in internal control and registers that notably led to a fraud of
US$300,000 in the Special Account. The government fired two accountants and repaid the funds.
The internal control problems were properly addressed by GACOPI that was subsequently cleared
by the Bank to undertake procurement and financial management for the HIV/AIDS Response
Project.

Initially, GACOPI could have been more pro-active in managing the contracts of: (i) consultants,
to ensure that all required items were included in the tender documents; and (ii) contractors, to
ensure that they perform quality work on time. More recently it has become clear that GACOPI
has learned from this experience. It has improved its management of external contracts and the
oversight of large tenders.

GACOPI emphasized hardware over software as evidenced by the higher completion rates for
hardware components (goods such as buildings and equipment) than that of "software"
components (technical assistance). This is not surprising given GACOPI's staffing with mostly
architects and engineers, but it means that other departments of the MOH with more public health
expertise should take a more pro-active role in "software" components. The program could also
have benefited from more rigorous monitoring and evaluation. Data collection could have been
more timely and the undertaking of user and staff assessments would have provided useful
analytical data to the MOH.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The level of financing was realistic for the scope and activities of the program. The total project
financing was US$ 355.7 million, of which US$ 98.7 million (28 percent) was expected to come
from IDA, US$116.5 million (33 percent) from the government of Mozambique contributions,
and US$140.5 million (39 percent) was other donors' contributions. The actual IDA financing
ended up being US$80 million instead of US$98.7 million. A significant part of that difference
(US$11 million) comes from the variation in exchange rate between the SDR and the US dollar.
The reduction in IDA financing resulting from the financing of some activities by other donors
was broadly compensated by cost increases in civil works.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is likely. The project supported the MHS which was financed by the
aggregation of nearly all funds for health activities in Mozambique in the years 1995 through
2003. Over the project period, the government has increased the MOH budget from US$ 16.1
million in 1995 to US$ 30 million in 2003, a significant increase but this is not sufficient. The SAR
actually had anticipated the continued need for external financing and stated that "external support
will be necessary to sustain health and other services for some years after the present time slice
financed by the IDA credit." This prediction proved correct. Given the present GDP per capita
of US$210, Mozambique will require continued macroeconomic support by the international
community for a number of years. Given the achievement of the DO, the good faith effort of the
government, and the continued involvement of all the donors in Mozambique, continued support



                                               - 16 -

is likely for the recurrent costs resulting from the investment program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Continued joint financing of the health budget by the government and donors is likely to continue
until Mozambique's economy has developed to a point where all regular operations can be fully
supported by the government budget alone.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was adequately identified, prepared, and appraised. The risks were properly identified
and mitigated and lessons learned from previous Bank work were incorporated into the design.
Relations with other donors were well managed and the roles and responsibilities of all parties in
relation to the support of the program were well defined.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was satisfactory. Problems were identified in a timely manner with action times
and deadlines for resolution. The flexible design of the program funding limited the need for
adjustments to the DCA. Bank supervision was pro-active and supportive. It provided knowledge
sharing and advice on adapting to changing circumstances yet ensured that basic agreements with
the Bank were respected.        Supervision was especially strong from 1998 to 2001 when the
supervising task team leader was based in Mozambique, allowing for close support of this large
program. When supervision was transferred to Bank headquarters in 2001, it was more difficult to
maintain the previous level of close support. However, every effort was made to time the
supervision missions with MOH annual reviews or joint donor meetings.

Throughout the project's seven-year life, it had five Bank Task Team leaders. Despite these
changes, the MOH felt that supervision had been adequate, but that each transition required some
"catching up" and it would have been preferable to have greater consistency of supervisory staff.
GACOPI staff also indicated that it would benefit from closer and more frequent contact with
Bank financial management, procurement, and disbursement staff.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank's supervision was active and
constructive and adapted itself to the evolving circumstances in the country. It pressed the
government when implementation performance was lagging, but was understanding enough to
adapt to unexpected events such as the 2000 floods or to weaknesses in implementation capacity.
The technical advice provided as well as the extensions (section 7.5) allowed the full
implementation of the program and the attainment of the development objectives. Coordination
with a large array of donors was particularly smooth and constructive. When problems occurred,
such as the fraud in the special account or cost overruns, Bank supervision was vigilant and
resulted in the solution of problems and the respect of agreements between the government and
the Bank.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government prepared the National Health Strategy that was the basis for the program. The


                                                  - 17 -

MOH participated actively with the Bank and other donors in the program preparation work.
Borrower ownership was high and all necessary documents were completed in time for appraisal.
The MOH demonstrated increased skill in managing relations with a large donor community. The
long time between the Project Concept Document and the effectiveness of the program (six years)
result from two main factors. Originally the program was prepared as a Sector Investment Loan,
then evolved into a SWAp-type of design to better meet the needs of the country. Also, project
preparation for the HSRP was started while the Health I project was still under implementation
and the government was reluctant to start another operation before the first one was closed.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Overall, the government
remained committed to the program throughout the implementation period. The program had a
relatively slow first phase (1996-1998). However, from 1999 to 2001 program implementation
picked up pace significantly: civil works got off the ground as rural hospitals, warehouses, and
health centers were rehabilitated and expanded. Training was carried out on a much larger scale
than planned, basic drugs were procured and distributed, and a maintenance system was put in
place.

During the last three years (2001-2003), the program faced a number of problems including
notably irregular provision of counterpart funds and the loss of the financial manager. In addition,
delays were experienced in the replenishment of the Special Account because of reconciliation
problems between GACOPI and the Bank, and there were occasional difficulties in obtaining
indicators from the MOH to measure performance (most key data have now been obtained).
Despite these problems, project implementation continued to move along and US$25 million were
disbursed during the period, i.e. 40 percent of total disbursements during the life of the project.

Because of delays in project implementation, the Bank provided three extensions of the project
closing date, for a total of 26 months to August 31, 2003 (plus a grace period of 4 months to
December 31, 2003 for processing of disbursements and closing of accounts). The main factors
that caused these extensions are as follows: (i) there was a 9-month delay in project effectiveness
after signing, and another 3 months delay to open the Special Account; (ii) the floods of 2000
resulted in severe delays for some major civil works (for example, construction of the Muxungue
rural hospital began late because the floods of 2000 made it inadvisable to use the Buzi site and
architectural and engineering designs had to be started again from scratch); and (iii) IDA's
disbursements were affected as the government substituted grant funds from other donors for a
few of the activities included in the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance by the implementing agency was satisfactory. It is difficult to imagine the success of
this program without GACOPI. This unit has increased its capacity while implementing this
program, corrected most of its weaknesses, and has become the prime investment agency of the
MOH. In general, GACOPI was responsive and well organized and able to take advantage of the
flexible nature of the DCA.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                - 18 -

Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

Project design in a post-conflict setting. In post-conflict situations it is a challenge to help
rebuild a health system, put it on the right track and avoid its fragmentation. The difficulty of
ensuring full government ownership, combined with support from multiple donors should not be
underestimated. Adequate time and resources during project preparation should be allocated to
that effect.

Sector-wide programs put the government in the driver's seat. The project has confirmed the
value of supporting sector-wide programs. It has helped the government put together an over-all
sector strategy that could be jointly financed by donors and the government. The project has
helped pave the way to the introduction of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) currently
under preparation. Sector-wide approaches increase the efficiency and speed of implementation
for the government through the harmonization of procurement, supervision, and reporting
procedures.

New programming models require new monitoring and evaluation methods. The movement
from projects to SWAps creates new requirements in monitoring and evaluation. When putting
together future operations, careful attention should be paid to the design of monitoring and
evaluations systems, including the choice of appropriate indicators, the establishment of a
baseline, the balance between routine data collection and periodic surveys and the inclusion of
monitoring and evaluation specialists in the program management team.

Upfront assistance from the Bank is important. Early in the project cycle, the Bank should
anticipate the client's needs in relation to the setting up of a well-staffed project management unit,
appropriate internal control systems, and developing terms of reference and procedures to
monitor the performance of consultants and contractors.

Appropriate resources for supervision help improve project implementation. The presence
of the TTL in Maputo during the project period 1998-2001, and his ability to help the client and
monitor progress, was a key element in the project's success.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Health Sector Recovery Program (HSRP) was the second Bank-financed health sector
project in Mozambique. Whereas the first Credit addressed mainly urban facility rehabilitation,
improved planning, management and training, the HSRP was aimed at the (re)construction of the
rural health system, particularly in those districts heavily affected by the war. The Program was
also new in that it assumed a sector-wide approach, with interventions concentrated in a number
of areas:

A.      Health Service Delivery
        In this domain, the Program aimed at (re)construction, rehabilitation, upgrading and
        maintenance of infrastructures and equipment in the health sector, as well as assuring



                                                  - 19 -

        stability in the provision of medical supplies, pharmaceuticals and laboratory agents.

B.      Institutional Support
        Through which the Program aimed at supporting and strengthening the sector
        management and administration capacity (financial, personnel and supplies, information
        systems, and sector policy and project preparation).

C.      Human Resources Development
        Which represented assistance to the Ministry of Health in the implementation of its
        manpower development plan, strengthening the national capacity for health personnel
        training, promoting continuing education for health workers and enhancing university
        medical training.

The ultimate aim of the HSRP was to improve the health status of the population, in general, and
a decrease in infant and child mortality, in particular. The main beneficiaries of the Program were
supposed to be women and children living in rural areas, through increased coverage and
improved quality in the health system, as well as health staff, through the implementation of the
Health Manpower Development Plan and improved working conditions.

The Program's outputs have been considerable. As far as human resources are concerned, the
Ministry of Health conducted 84 professional courses, far exceeding its initial goal of 48, training
a total of 2,543 health professionals. Pre- and in-service courses covered a variety of primary and
secondary health subjects including basic nursing techniques, pharmacy, dentistry, basic obstetric
and gynecology procedures, basic surgery, and laboratory analysis. The project helped improve
the quantity and quality of human resources for health in Mozambique. In addition the project
funded the rehabilitation and construction of training institutions.

In terms of infrastructure, 3 rural hospitals were constructed or rehabilitated and 179 rural
primary health facilities built and equipped. Estimates show that, population per health center has
fallen from 57,000 in 1997 to 27,000 in 2003 (less than half). This is largely due to the promotion
of a great number of health posts to the level of health centers (in fact, population per primary
health facility has stayed roughly the same). But, considering the large increase in population
during this same period (from 15.7 to 18.5 million people), these achievements are nonetheless
substantial.

The health status of the Mozambican population has also improved considerably over the period
covered by the HSRP, particularly that of children and women. Infant mortality decreased from
135/1,000 live births in 1997 to about 125/1,000 in 2003, as a result of the implementation of the
Plan of Action to Reduce Absolute Poverty (PARPA) in one hand and on another the
implementation of priority health interventions such as immunizations, antenatal care, integrated
management of childhood illnesses (IMCI) amongst others, which coverage increased between
1997 and 2003. An increase of both the coverage of institutional deliveries and ante natal care
was also observed in the same time span.

Considering the magnitude of the World Bank loan in relation to total donor support to the



                                                 - 20 -

sector, it is not unreasonable to attribute a large part of the progress made to the HSRP. Indeed,
between 1998 and 2002, HSRP expenditure has represented between 11% and 19% of total
donor expenditure and, in terms of investment, these ratios lie even higher (between 25% and
39% of the total).

Mozambique learnt a lot from the implementation of the first World Bank loan, particularly in
terms of Bank procedures and general management and administration capacity. The second
credit also taught a few important lessons. Firstly, that in order to foster ownership of the
project, it is essential to strengthen the capacity of the implementing agencies (national, provincial
and district directorates) in terms of project formulation, preparation, appraisal and
implementation.         Secondly,    it  became     apparent   that  clearly  defined   performance
indicators/standards have to be agreed upon at the time of project appraisal, so as to ensure
effective and timely implementation.

Nevertheless, the HSRP suffered a number of major setbacks. External shocks affected the
country during the implementation period, such as the HIV/AIDS pandemic and the floods of
2000.

Besides this, macroeconomic factors, beyond the borrower's control, severely eroded the value of
the loan. Inflation, despite efforts of the Mozambican Government, reached levels as high as
21.9% in 2001 (consequence of the floods), and the value of the US dollar against the SDR
dropped significantly, leading to an estimated loss of 11 million US dollar over the entire lifetime
of the project.

Another problem was the notorious unpredictability in the flow of funds from the Ministry of
Planning and Finance (MPF). Those funds, which were to be used as counterparts to the World
Bank loan, were often provided with considerable delay, affecting implementation of the project,
in particular with respect to the installation of equipment for the health facilities. Further MPF
delays were experienced in the hiring of a financial manager to strengthen GACOPI's financial
management capacity (approval took two years).

However, despite initial slowness in implementation and various other constraints outlined above,
the Ministry of Health is convinced that the project has achieved good results against original
goals. Considering its success, as well as the importance of the loan in comparison to total donor
support to the sector, it is highly unfortunate that a third loan to the Sector has not yet
materialized. This is particularly so at a time when the Ministry of Health has approved its
Investment Plan for the period 2004-2008-(2013), which stipulated that a third of the total
requirements would be financed through a third World Bank loan. It is now expected that the
third operation with the bank be considered taking into account the past experience and the
dynamics of the collaboration between the ministry of health and its cooperating partners in the
context of Sector-Wide Approach.

Maputo, March 24th 2004
                                         Dr. Francisco Songane
                                           Minister of Health



                                                  - 21 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
The Completion Report of the Health Sector Recovery Program was a very interesting read. It
gave a comprehensive picture of activities implemented in the program financed by a World Bank
credit. The existence of a large credit program in the mid 1990's was an important step in the
development of a sector wide approach in the health sector: Before the PESS the HSRP program
was the program of the largest scope in the sector, and was in many instances, with the lack of a
proper strategy, considered as the health sector strategy of its period. It can be merited for being
the overall framework within which the Ministry operated in mid-late 1990s, and as such an
attempt towards harmonization.

The report describes the three main components and the various subcomponents of the program
financed by the WB loan (US$ 98.7 million). Reference is made to the overall program plan of
US$ 355.7 million, but activity description is understandably limited to the use of the Bank credit.
However, it is not clear in this report to what extent did the other funds flow into the sector
during the period of the program. 16 other donors and the government budget are mentioned as
financing the overall program, and within some subcomponents reference is made to funding by
bilateral donors. There were several infrastructure reconstruction projects as well as system
strengthening projects parallel to the HSRP which also contributed to the increase of health care
coverage. Therefore it would be interesting to mention in the report to what extent the overall
plan was funded (at least an estimate, if exact figures are not available). In relation to the planned
level of funding the credit covered 40 % of the program.

The results part gives the overall achievements in the sector (which when measured with available
statistical information are quite impressive) towards which all support to the sector contributed.
In the subcomponent descriptions the reader is sometimes left with an impression that the
improvements are specifically due to the Bank involvement, although other donors perhaps in
some cases have been more important (this e.g. could be the case of the pharmaceuticals and
medical supply development, in which the SDC lead pooling arrangement played a pivotal role,
and the Bank contribution was planned to be about 10%).

The lessons learned part perhaps should stress more the need for further harmonization, which
clearly did get to a different level once the PESS was formulated. The first paragraph emphasizes
the importance of a SWAP approach, and harmonization, however the word "harmonization"
does not appear when lessons for monitoring and evaluation or assistance by the Bank are
discussed later in the same chapter. On the contrary, a well staffed project management unit is
proposed to control and monitor Bank projects.

[Contribution from Kirsi Viisainen, Finland, focal point of donors in the health sector in Mozambique]

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate




I




Outcome indicators

                         Indicator                                       Target               Actual
 Government recurrent expenditures in the health               $ 18.8 million (baseline)    $30.0 million
sector
 Ratio per capita recurrent expenditures on health by                7.4 (baseline)             4.4
least and most receiving province.
 Percentage of first and second level facilities                          100%                 94%
rehabilitated/built
 Proportion of health posts staffed w/ non-trained                         0%                  30%
personnel only
 Proportion of first level health facilities properly stocked              80%                 71%
w/ essential drugs program kits
 Infant mortality rate (per 1000 live births)                              120                  101
 Child mortality rate (per 1000 live births)                               200                  153

 Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 pregnancies)                        1,800                1,600
Client satisfaction w/ services (proportion interviewed                    75%                 52%
responding positively)



Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate




1 End of project

                           Indicator                                        Target                 Actual
 Vaccination coverage w/ DPT third dose                                       80%                   88%
 Coverage of antenatal care per year (first visit)                            80%                   84%
 Coverage of institutional deliveries                                         50%                   48%
  Contraceptive prevalence rate among women aged 15-49                        30%                   17%
 Institutional maternal mortality rate per year (per 100,000)                  100                  164
 Outpatient consultations per inhabitant per year                              0.6                  0.9
 Number of mid-level health workers trained per year by                        55                   184
training institution




                                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               15.80              0.60              11.20             63.70             91.30
                                      (14.10)            (0.60)            (10.00)           (0.00)            (24.70)
2. Goods                               15.90              0.60               0.10             14.90             31.50
                                      (15.70)            (0.60)             (0.10)           (0.00)            (16.40)
3. Services                            0.00               1.80              38.50            167.50            207.80
                                      (0.00)             (1.00)            (37.50)           (0.00)            (38.50)
4. Pharmaceuticals                     19.10              0.00               0.00             6.00              25.10
                                      (19.10)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (19.10)
   Total                               50.80              3.00              49.80            252.10            355.70
                                      (48.90)            (2.20)            (47.60)           (0.00)            (98.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               17.00              0.50              9.40             67.10            94.00
                                      (15.20)            (0.50)            (8.30)            (0.00)           (24.00)
2. Goods                               10.80              0.40              0.20             16.10            27.50
                                      (10.60)            (0.40)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (11.20)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00             25.80            170.30            196.10
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (25.80)            (0.00)           (25.80)
4. Pharmaceuticals                     18.90              0.00              0.00             8.00             26.90
                                      (18.90)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (18.90)
   Total                               46.70              0.90             35.40            261.50            344.50
                                      (44.70)            (0.90)           (34.30)            (0.00)           (79.90)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/92                      9    1 Economist, Mission Leader
                                             1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Social Anthropologist
                                             1 Economist, Consultant
                                             1 Health Management Specialist,
                                             Consultant
                                             1 Human Resources Specialist,
                                             Consultant
                                             1 Architect, Consultant
                                             1 Educator, Consultant

              5/93                    12     1 Economist, Mission Leader
                                             1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Finance Health Specialist
                                             1 Population Specialist
                                             1 Health System Specialist
                                             1 Cost Tab Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Project Officer
                                             1 Procurement Adviser
                                             1 Medical Equipment Specialist,
                                             Consultant
                                             1 Architects, Consultant
                                             1 Social Anthropologist

              11/93                     7     Economist, Mission Leader
                                             1 Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Food Security Advisor, World
                                             Food Program
                                             1 Health Finance Specialist
                                             1 Architect, Consultant
                                             1 NGO Representative
                                             1 Economist

              5/94                      6    1 Economist, Mission Leader
                                             1 Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
                                             1 Health Finance Specialist
                                             1 Architect, Consultant
                                             1 Budget Assistant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1994                   5    1 Sr. Economist, Mission
                                             Leader
                                             1 Sr. Public Health Specialist



                                              - 26 -

                           1 Public Health Specialist
                           1 Health Financial Specialist
                           1 Educator, Consultant

           2/1995        3 1 Sr. Economist, Mission Leader
                           1 Public Health Specialist
                           1 Health Financial Specialist

Supervision
           12/1995       4 1 Sr. Economist, Mission
                           Leader
                           1 Operations Analyst
                           1 Architect, Consultant
                           1 MOE - Representative

           3/1996        5 2 Public Health Specialist
                           3 Representatives - MOH,
                           MOF, NGO



           10/02/1998    5 1 Sr. Public Health Specialist    S    S
                           1 Economist
                           1 Human Resource Specialist
                           1 Sr. Financial Management
                           Specialist
                           1 Disbursement Officer

           12/99         3 1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
                           1 Economist
                           1 Architect, Consultant

           07/2000       3 1 Public Health Specialist        S    S
                           1 Sr. Health Economist
                           1 Nutrition Advisor

           10/2000       3 1 Sr. Health Specialist           S    S
                           1 Lead Health Specialist
                           1 Lead Health Specialist

           6/2001        4 1 Sr. Public Health Specialist    S    S
                           1 Sr. Operations Officer
                           1 Sr. Economist
                           1 Financial Management Officer

           12/2001       6 1 Sr. Operations Officer and      S    S
                           Team Leader
                           1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
                           1 World Bank Reproductive
                           Health Adviser
                           1 Sr. Economist
                           1 Financial Management Analyst
                           1 Procurement Assistant

           5/2002        3 1 Sr. Operations Officer and      S    S



                           - 27 -

                                            Team Leader
                                            1 Sr. Health Specialist
                                            1 Sr. Economist

               11/2002                 5    1 Sr. Operations Officer and        S    S
                                            Team Leader
                                            1 Sr. Economist
                                            1 Financial Management
                                            1 Procurement Assistant
                                            1 Architect

               1/2003                  3    1 Sr. Operations Officer and        S    S
                                            Team Leader
                                            1 Financial Management
                                            1 Procurement Assistant




 ICR
               10/2003                5     1 Lead Operations Officer,          S    S
                                            Team Leader
                                            1 Sr. Health Economist
                                            1 Public Health Specialist
                                            1 Architect
                                            1 Consultant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             356                             563
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    32                             72
  Supervision                            259                             748
  ICR                                      14                             36
  Total                                  661                            1419




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Dgedge, Marinho et al. "Second Joint Evaluation of Health Sector Performance in Mozambique During
2002". MISAU. June 2003.

Dockery, Grindl and Janet Price. "Gender and Human Resources: Mozambique". Liverpool Associates in
Tropical Health. August 2001.

Gwatkin, David et al. "Socio-Economic Differences in Health, Nutrition, and Population in Mozambique".
World Bank. May 2000.

MISAU. "Balanco Resumo de Implementacao e Plano de Actividades Para 2003". March 2002.

MISAU. "Envio de Relatorio Resumido Sobre Utilizacao do Fundo Disponibilizado Atreves do CR. 2788
MOZ, Componente c1: Formacao". December 2002.

MISAU. "Estudo Sobre o Impacto do SIDA nos Servicos de Saude em Mozambique." June 2002.

MISAU. "Evaluation of the Pharmaceutical Sector in Mozambique." May 2003.

MISAU. "Plan de Desenvolvimento dos Recursos Humanos Actualizado 2001-2010". June 2001.

MISAU. "Problematica do Desenvolvimento do Recursos Humanos". November 2001.

MISAU. "Relatorio Sumario de Encerramento do Credito". December 2002.

MISAU. "Strategic Plan for the Health Sector (PESS) 2001-2005-2010". April 2001.

Pavignani, Enrico et al. "Aid, Change and Second Thoughts: Coordinatin External Resources to the Health
Sector in Mozambique." December 1997.

Weibe, Harry. "Civil Works Detailed Report, HSRP". November 2003.

World Bank. Mozambique HSRP Aide Memoires, BTORs, and PRSPs.




                                                 - 31 -

- 32 -

