Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14373-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
NOVEMBER 7, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(August 1995)
Currency Unit = Metical (pi. Meticais)
1000 Meticais = One Conto
US$1.00 = Mt 10,210
Mt 1.00 = US$0.0001
FISCAL YEAR
Government Fiscal Year:     January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB              African Development Bank
AIDS              Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
APES              Agentes Polivalentes Elementares de Saiude
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CRDS              Centro Regional de Desenvolvimento Sanitario (Regional Center for Health
Development)
CW                Civil Works
DAF               Direc,ao de Administrasao e Finan,as (Directorate of Administration and
Finance)
DANIDA            Danish International Development Agency
DNPC              Direcgao Nacional de Planifica,co e Cooperacao (National Directorate of
Planning and Cooperation)
DNS               Direcgao Nacional de Saude (National Directorate of Health)
DPES              Departamento de Planificacao e Economia Sanitaria (Department of Planning and
Health Economics)
DPS               Direcqao Provincial de Saiude (Provincial Directorate of Health)
DRH               Direcgao de Recursos Humanos (National Directorate of Human Resources)
EE                Empresa Estatal (Parastatal Enterprise)
EU                European Union
FARMAC, E.E.   Parastatal Pharmaceutical Enterprise
FINIDA            Finnish International Development Agency
GACOPI            Gabinete de Coordenacao de Projectos de Investimento
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOM               Government of Mozambique
GPO               General Provincial Operations
HC                Health Centers



HDF               Rural Health Development Fund
HEALTH I          Health and Nutrition Project (1989-95)
HEALTH II         Health Sector Recovery Program (HSRP)
HIS               Health Information System
HIV               Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HMDP              Health Manpower Development Plan
HSRP              Health Sector Recovery Program
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
[CB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               International Development Association
IMF               International Monetary Fund
INS               Instituto Nacional de Saude (National Institute of Health)
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MCH               Maternal and Child Health Care
MEDIMOC, E.E.  Parastatal Import/Export Enterprise for Medical Supplies
MHS               Mozambican National Health Strategy
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MOH               Ministry of Health
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NDF               National Drug Formulary
NEPs              Nucleos de Estatistica e Planifica,ao
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
NHS               National Health System
NORAD             Norwegian Agency for International Development
OPEC              Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PDH               Provincial Directorates of Health
PHC               Primary Health Care
PTIP              Piano Trienal de Investimentos Publicos (Triennial Public Investment
Program)
RH                Rural Hospital
RHC               Rural Health Center
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SAREC             Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation
SBD               Standard Bidding Documents
SCC               Systematic Client Consultation
SDC               Swiss Development Cooperation
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
SIDA              Swedish International Development Agency
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
SCF/UK            Save the Children Fund/United Kingdom
TB                Tuberculosis
UHC               Urban Health Center
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
UNFPA             United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
WB                World Bank
WFP               World Food Program
WHO               World Health Organization






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
Table or Contents
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  ........................................... i
1. INTRODUCTION: COUNTRY AND SECTOR OVERVIEW   ...........................                           I
A. Background  .        ...................................................  I
B. The Economic Environment ...........................................  2
C. Sector Issues, Policy and Strategy (1996-2005) ............................... 8
D. Country Assistance Strategy  .......................................... 16
E. Lessons of Past IDA Experience  ........................................ 17
F. The 1996-2000 Integrated Health Sector Program  ............................. 19
11. THE PROGRAM  ..................................                                                21
A. Sunmmary of Program Objectives .................................. 21
B. Detailed Program Description . .................................. 22
C. Program Costs .................................. 30
D. Program Financing     .................                   ................. 30
11. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ................                         .................. 33
A. Implementation Arrangements ................................... 33
B. Program Monitoring and Reporting ................................... 36
C. Procurement .................................. 38
D. Disbursement       .................                     ................. 41
E. Program Accounts and Audits . .................................. 42
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS          .................                   ................. 44
A. Benefits .................................. 44
B. Risks  .................................. 44
C. Environmental Considerations . .................................. 44
D. Economic Analysis     .................                   ................. 45
V. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........                   ..       .............. 46
A. Assurances Obtained During Negotiations .............     ..       ................... 46
B. Conditions .     ..................................................... 47
C. Recommendation .         ................................................. 47
List of Tables
Table l: Social Indicators in Mozambique and Sub-Saharan Africa ..........................  I
Table 2: Financing Plan (US$ Million, including taxes and contingencies) 1996-2000 ............... 31
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)  ................................... 39
Table 4: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit (US$ Million) ......................... 41
Table 5: Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ Million) ............................ 42
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Mozaznbique in February, 1995,
comprising Messrs. Ricardo Silveira (Sr. Economist, Mission Leader); Kees Kostermans (Public Health Specialist),
Eugene Boostrom (Sr. Public Health Specialist); Uche Mbanefo (Sr. Financial Analyst); Arthur Fields (Procurement
Specialist): and Joaquim Durao (Financial Analyst, ConsultanE). Messrs. A. Edward Elmendorf (Prin. Management
Specialist); Xavier Coll (Prin. Health Specialist); and David Peters (Health Specialist) reviewed the project design.
Mr. Howard Barnum and Ms. Akiko Macda did the economic analysis in section IV.D. Mmes. Natalia Moncada
and Guadalupe Prado provided logistical support in the preparation of the report. Mr. Roger Grawe and Ms.
Katherine Marshall are the managing Division Chief and Department Director respectively for the operation.



List of Figures
Figure IA: Health Sector as Share of GDP  ........................................  4
Figure IB: Health and GDP per Capita  ..........................................  S
Figure 2:  Health Sector Program (1996-2000)  ..................................... 21
Figure 3:  Program Expenditures by Cost Category  .................................. 30
List of Boxes
Box 1: The Importance of Human Capital .........................................  2
Box 2: The Evolving MOH  Policy or, Cost Sharing ..................................  6
Box 3: Causes of Implementation Failures in the Early Years of Health I ...................... 18
Box 4: Health I Accomplishments .           ............................................. 19
Box 5: Movement Toward an Integrated Health Sector Approach in Mozambique  ................ 20
Box 6: Integrated Program Implementation  ........................................ 36
Annexes:
Annex- 1.1            Ministry of Health Organizational Chart
Annex-1.2A            Letter of Sector Policy
Annex-1.2B            Letter of Counterpart Assurances
Annex-2. IA           Program Cost Summary (US$ '000, including taxes)
Annex-2. 1 B          Program Cost Summary (US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
Annex-2. 1C           Program Cost Summary by Year (US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
Annex-2.2A            Estimates of Donor Financing by Year (US$ '000, excluding IDA)
Annex-2.2B            Estimates of IDA Financing by Year (US$ '000, detail by sub-component)
Annex-2.3             Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule (US$ million)
Annex-3. 1            Implementation Plan
Annex-3.2             Outline of Implementation Manual
Annex-3.3             List of Indicators
Annex-3.4             IDA Supervision Plan
Annex-3.5             Health Sector Training Program Schedule
Annex-3.6             Technical Assistance by Objective (US$ '000, IDA only)
Annex-3.7             Economic Analysis of the Basic Package
Annex-4. 1            Documents Available in Program Working File
Map:                  IBRD No. 26934
.    .  . .  . .  . .  . .  . .  . . ..



- i -
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIOUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Mozambique.
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Health (MOH).
Beneflciaries:       Primarily women and children living in the rural areas, through increased
coverage and improved quality in the health system. Health staff, through the
implementation of the Health Manpower Development Plan and improved
working conditions.
Amount:              Program: US$ 355.7; IDA: SDR 66.3 million (US$ 98.7 million equivalent).
IDA Terms:          Standard with 40-year maturity.
Poverty Category:    Program of Targeted Interventions. The beneficiaries of the MOH's basic
health services are primarily women and children living in the rural areas of
the country. The Program is aimed at the reconstruction of the rural health
system, particularly in districts heavily affected by the war. Through the
(re)construction of health centers and health posts, the Rural Health
Development Fund of the Program aims to bring health services to the least
serviced areas of the country, which are also the poorest. The emphasis on
basic and preventive care, which underscores the National Health Strategy,
ensures that components aimed at improving pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies and health staff training will reach primarily the poor.
Program Objectives: The ultimate objective of the Mozambican National Health Strategy (MHS),
supported by this Program, is the improvement of the health status of the
population, in general, and a decrease in infant and child mortality, in
particular. MHS objectives are to be achieved through an increase in health
coverage of the population from the present 40 percent level to 60 percent by
the turn of the century, with better quality of services provided.
Program Description: Through the coordination of all major donors and the government, the
Program, which encompasses all activities of the MOH, will finance a
five-year time slice of the MHS. In accordance with the sector's strategy,
teams from the MOH have defined objectives and identified and prepared the
various components, under the overall coordination of the MOH's Planning
Directorate. The Program will address the following areas:
(a) resumption of and improvement in the guality of health services provided
so that the overall sector investment strategy yields a higher level of services,
as the sector expands, by: (i) rehabilitating and expanding the network of first
level health facilities; (ii) rehabilitating and expanding the network of rural
hospitals and rehabilitating the network of provincial and central hospitals; (iii)
strengthening laboratory facilities in hospitals and health centers; (iv) assuring
stability in the provision of medical supplies, pharmaceuticals and laboratory
reagents; (v) supporting a national maintenance strategy in the sector; (vi)
supporting an institutional nutrition program for severely malnourished



- ii -
children and for in-patients; and (vii) supporting general provincial operations
for health.
(b) improvement of sector institutions, suoport services and sub-national
health management systems by: (i) establishing policies and procedures and
expanding storage capacity aimed at improving the supply system for medical
supplies and pharmaceuticals; (ii) strengthening the provincial health
management system, in coordination with decentralization of functions to the
provinces; (iii) improving the sector's information system; and (iv) enabling
national implementation of the Program, including the development of sector
policy and systematic evaluations of the Program based on comprehensive
consultations with ultimate clients.
(c) development of human resources capacity, by: (i) implementing a
time-slice of the Health Manpower Development Plan; (ii) developing the
national capacity for health personnel training; (iii) promoting continuing
education of health workers; and (iv) enhancing university medical training.
Benefits and Risks:   The main benefits of the Program will be increased coverage and quality of
health services and increased equity in access to services with a shift of
resources toward rural areas and a basic package of health care. The main
beneficiaries of improved base facilities will be women and children through
MCH programs. The Program will also generate important external benefits
by assisting the MOH in the coordination and implementation of projects
undertaken by all donors. Finally, the Program will assist in increasing the
transparency and efficiency of the sector's budgetary process by moving
virtually all off-budget health expenditures into the budget. The main risk of
the Program is MOH's potential difficulty to implement fully parts of the
sector's extensive number of activities, leading to bottlenecks and inefficient
service provision. To mitigate this risk, the Program is designed to support
the improvement of management capacity in the MOH and aims to coordinate
and consolidate donors' activities so that implementation and capacity
constraints are substantially alleviated.
Estimated Financing Plan (US$ million, including taxes and contingencies):
Source of Financing         Local        Foreign           Total
GOM                         104.6          11.9            116.5
Other Donors                 32.7         107.7            140.4
IDA                          39.5         59.2             98.7
Total                       176.8         178.9            355.7
Estimated IDA Disbursements (USS million):
FY96       FY97        FY98        FY99        FY00        FY01
Annual       7.1          17.4       23.0        25.0        19.2        7.0
Cumulative    7.1        24.5        47.5        72.5        91.7        98.7
Cumulative %   7.2%      24.8%       48.1%       73.5%       92.9        100.0%
Project ID:    MZ-PA-1792



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
I. INTRODUCTION: COUNTRY AND SECTOR OVERVIEW
A. Background
1.1    With a population of about 17 million, mostly rural and poor, subject to periodic drought and just
emerging from nearly two decades of internal warfare, Mozambique is generally regarded as one of the
world's greatest development challenges. Yet Mozambique has the potential to change from its present
situation. There are substantial prospects for economic development in the country if investment is
allowed to flow towards economic opportunity. The potential returns to increased investment in human
capital in Mozambique are enormous in terms of improvements in social welfare and as stimuli to
economic growth. The absolutely low starting point of Mozambique in terms of basic social indicators,
access to and quality of social services indicates that the "marginal dollar", wisely spent, can yield high
returns. Peacetime has made it possible for the government to reestablish effective communication with
the population in areas formerly cut off by the war and to collaborate with communities in the planning
and implementation of programs intended to help them to improve their lives.
1.2    In absolute terms and in comparison with other Sub-Saharan African experience, Mozambique's
social indicators are low, as shown in Table I which provides the most recent estimates available.
Table 1: Social Indicators in Mozambique and Sub-Saharan Africa
Social Indicator                                         Mozambique                   Sub-SaharanAfrica
Illiteracy Rate (%): Population 15+ [Females 15+]                          67 [78.7]           50 [62.3]
Primary Gross Enrollment Ratio (%): Total [Females]                          63 153]             66 [58]
Primary Student/Teacher Ratio:                                                  55                   41
Life Expectancy (years): Total [Males, Females]             48 [46 Males; 49 Females]                52
Population/Physician:                                                        48,000              26,670
Population/Nursing Person:                                                    4,400               2,180
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000 live births): Total [Urban,Rural]  162 [89 Urban; 140-300 Rural]    107
Under-Five Mortality Rate (per 1000 live births):                               282                 179
Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100,000 live births):                            1,100                 690
Population Annual Growth (%):                                                   2.7                 2.8
Total Fertility Rate [estimate for Year 2000]                              6.5 [6.9]           6.1 [5.6]
Daily K/Calorie: Total [Share of Requirement (%)]                         1,680 [77]          2,120 [931
Sources:  Government of Mozambique and UNICEF, The Situation of Children and Women in
MozambiQue. 1993, UNDP Human Development Report. 1993, and World Bank World Development
Report. 1994. Note: the data are best estimates for the latest available years.



-2-
B. The Economic Environment
Macroeconomic Retrospective
1.3    Since Mozambique became independent from Portuguese rule in 1975 it has faced an extremely
difficult economic situation due to a combination of factors including economic mismanagement, natural
disasters and a civil war. Constant economic deterioration further depressed the already low living
standards of the people. In 1987, after an agreement with the IMF and the Bank, an Economic and Social
Rehabilitation Program (PRES) was launched. The program helped reverse the decline in GDP and
allowed a slight annual GDP growth of some 1.5 percent between 1987-91. Despite the increase in GDP,
urban poverty increased. The spread of the civil war and the resulting exodus of the population from
rural areas to the cities in search of a secure life, coupled with the decline of expenditures on human
resources and the withdrawal of the government's subsidies for staple foods, contributed to a deterioration
of the nutritional and health conditions of the overall population.
1.4   In  the  last  seven  years,  the      Box 1: The Impontance of Human Capital
adjustment process in Mozambique has
progressed on several fronts: establishing a  .. the primary determinant of a country's standard of
market for foreign  exchange, initiating      living is how well it succeeds in developing and utilizing
financial sector reform, freeing domestic    the skills, knowledge, health, and habits of its
trade  and  prices, continuing  enterprise    population. It has been estimated that human capital--
reform, and strengthening public expenditure    education, on-the-job and other training, and health--
controls.  The Bank and the IMF have          comprises about 80 percent of the capital or wealth in
worked closely with the government in the    the United States and other advanced countries. Even
design   of  Mozambique's  adjustment    if such estimates are somewhat exaggerated--and I do
program. The government's performance in    not believe any exaggeration is large--these estimates
implementing  the  program   has  been        clearly indicate that human capital can be neglected at
implemeontinygoo, athepougracomplcas  ben     a country's peril. The importance of human capital to
reasonably good, although complicated by     growth is perhaps excessively illustrated by the
severe external shocks. Aid from, and trade   outstanding records of Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong,
with, the former Soviet Union stopped in    South  Korea,  and  other fast growing  Asian
1991, and key markets in Eastern Europe      economies ... Neglect of human capital and world markets
were lost. The result was a loss of foreign   by most economists after World War II in the 1950s and
exchange amounting to over 8 percent of    1960s led to a seriously distorted view of the growth
GDP. The civil war caused an increase in    process. and ultimately to a failed vision of what is
the percentage of displaced households from   necessary 1o achieve economic progress and reductions
30 percent in 1988 to over 50 percent in    ofpoverty. The World Bank gave very little attention to
1992,  severely    affecting  agricultural    human capital at that time, both in its lending policies
production.   In  addition, in  1992  the     and in its research and country studies. Gradually, the
agriculture sector was further devastated by  Bank, as well as the profession, began to change its
agriultre scto wasfurher evatate  by approach to development. lam happy to know that now
the most severe drought of the century.       apocvdvlpet  ahpyonwhto
thso, exmost sevres drougt mofsth  cindstury  not only is research on human capital thriving at the
Also, export prices of most agro-industrial    Bank, but the Bank's lending practices also have shifted
exports declined. Rough estimates suggest    a little towards health, education and training programs.
that the external shocks reduced output by at
least 5 percent p.a. on  average, thus        Gary Becker, Nobel Laureate in Economics
accounting for two-thirds of the reduction in  December 16, 1994 lecture at the World Bank
the growth rate of GDP to 1.7 percent p.a.
in 1990-92.



-3-
1.5    In 1993, with improved security, better weather, some partially restored infrastructure, and
continued structural reform, GDP growth reached 19 percent, and inflation fell from 55 percent in 1992
to 44 percent by year end. Agricultural production rose by 21 percent as the sector recovered from the
1992 drought and displaced households resettled in rural areas. Increased agricultural marketing and
improved security led to a sharp increase in commercial activities in rural areas. Traffic and passenger
flows were restored throughout the country and railroad traffic rose following repairs to the transport
corridors.  However, industrial production in the formal sector is stagnating because widespread
smuggling and effective negative protection have undermined the capacity of local firms to compete, while
exporters have no access to effective duty exemption regimes. An over-regulated business environment
and the slow pace of privatization of large industrial firms are also factors. Although the Mozambican
economy is expected to continue growing in 1994/95 at an annual rate of 5.8 percent, the macroeconomic
situation remains unstable due to high domestic inflation and rapid population growth.
Public Expenditures and Fiscal Stability
1.6    Although economic growth will increasingly come from private sector activity, at present nearly
fifty percent of GDP comes from government investment and consumption. Therefore, it is crucial that
public expenditures be transparent and reflect the priorities laid out by the government. The Triennial
Public Investment Program (PTIP) is the instrument used by government to account for and rationalize
medium-term investment decisions. Since its inception in 1992, the PTIP has been continuously improved
to better plan and control all investment activity outside the private sector (i.e., including donor support)
and to identify recurrent expenditures which are often built into investment projects. In parallel, off-
budget recurrent expenditures have gradually been integrated (or at least accounted for) in the budget.
Financing of the 1994-96 PTIP comes largely from donors, who contribute about 80 percent of the total.
Taxes and other internal revenues cover approximately 70 percent of the recurrent budget.'
1.7    To succeed, an integrated sector operation such as the Health Sector Recovery Program must be
implemented in a fiscally sustainable environment. What this means is not only that the Program should
be affordable by the government budget, but that the resulting budget should be consistent with the
restoration of macroeconomic stability, albeit in the context of long-term economic growth. While
significant progress has been achieved in reducing the fiscal deficit after grants, this has to date been done
mainly by increasing the mobilization of grants. To promote future fiscal sustainability and reduce aid
dependency, it is important to reduce the fiscal deficit before grants through increased revenues and
rationalization of investments. A key component of the government's program to raise revenues is the
reform of customs announced at the March 1995 Consultative Group Meeting, another important factor
is the introduction of a value-added tax over the medium-term. Rationalization of the investment program
is being achieved through the development of integrated sectoral investment programs that are consistent
with sectoral priorities and available future recurrent funding. Besides increased efficiency in the use of
external resources, the development of such programs should generate savings in technical assistance.
In total, the fiscal deficit before grants would fall from about 30 percent of GDP in 1994 to less than 15
percent by 1999. This level would be consistent with the expected reduction in Mozambique's aid
dependency over the medium to long-term and sustained economic growth.
'The last public expenditures review exercise for Mozambique took place in 1992. An updated review of social sectors
expenditures was carried out in 1994.



-4-
Human Resources and Sustainable Growth
1.8    Human  resources  development
must be  firmly  linked  to  and  even
embedded  in   macroeconomic  policy                     Figure 1A Health Sector as Share ot GDP
decisions, which affect the supply of and
demand for human capital.  Likewise,    2%                     ........... -
policy measures that distort market prices,                                     .........:
impede the movement of labor from  less    2%..
productive   to   more   productive              .5. . ....... :
employment,  and   even   discourage
employment growth  can  lead  to  the    1.0%
inefficient utilization of human capital and
the  distortion  of spending  on  human    0.5%
resources  development.       The  poor    o0             _                              [Rcr
performance of the Mozambican economy
has   influenced   human   resources             s0 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 8 90 91 92 93 94
development in two ways. Slower growth                                              Year
has put pressure on pubic expenditures for
education, health, and population programs. It has also reduced the capacity and incentives for private
households to spend on these measures.
1.9    Reduction in poverty and lasting improvement in the lives of Mozambicans will require a
substantial investment in the social sectors. In the period 1990-94, investment expenditures in the social
sectors averaged about 6 percent of the total investment budget, while the share of recurrent expenditures
amounted to less than 16 percent, on average, over the same period. The government realizes that these
levels are inadequate, and recent tangible reallocation of resources to health and education underscores
the priority now being afforded to poverty reduction and sustainable growth.
Health Sector Expenditures and Financing
1.10   Profile of Public Expenditures. In 1980, health sector expenditures accounted for about 6.7
percent of total public expenditures.2 For the next decade, expenditures declined sharply before stabilizing
at approximately 3 percent in 1990.3 During the period 1991-93 the health share of public expenditures
experienced a continuous increase from the level achieved in 1990 up to 4.2 percent (1993), with an
estimated sharp decrease in 1994. The graph below shows that the per capita health spending reached
the peak of US$ 4.67 in 1982, with a decline in the following two years even as GDP per capita
increased. This decline has never been recovered. Between 1980-94, expenditures on the health sector
as a share of GDP declined from about 2.5 percent to under 1.5 percent. Budget estimates for 1995 show
a sharp increase in health expenditures from the previous year and will likely reverse this long-term trend,
indicating the commitment of the newly elected government to human resources development in general
and to the health sector in particular.
2 Note that these estimates do not include the significant government spending on health activities by the military.
3As compared to an average of some 5 % for other low-income countries in sub-Saharan Africa (though the share of the public
sector in GDP is higher in Mozambique than in most African countries).



-5-
Figure I B: Health and GDP per Capita
5                                   .                                     300
4                                                                         250
..    .   .:.:   .   -::- :-x-s.  . .   --..-...   .  -.-..     ... . .
:4L:                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200
2.5                                                                         15 0 - . ..  I :
U S S   2                                                             ........................
Health 1.5                           _                                             100   GDP
............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... Hat
80  81  82  83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94                          Hel|
Year                                         | +GDP 
1.11 Household Financing. The basis of a cost sharing scheme within the health sector was
established in 1977. However, it became relevant only since 1987, after adjustments in fees and
procedures. Cost sharing, excluding drugs, represented about 4.2 percent of government recurrent health
expenditures in 1987. Despite new revenues from fees charged at "special clinics" which were introduced
in 1990, the cost sharing ratio excluding drugs still declined to 3.1 percent in 1991. In 1990/91, cost
sharing on drugs was about 3 percent of total drug expenditures. During 199 1/1993 the cost sharing ratio
(including drugs and "special clinics") increased from 4.3 percent to 4.8 percent of the government
financed health expenditures. Cost recovery from regular outpatient and inpatient fees has decreased over
the same period, from 0.6 percent to 0.2 percent of the public expenditures, while that from the "special
clinics" has increased from 1 .4 percent up to 2.5 percent, partially due to the extension of such services
to the Beira Central Hospital. Considering only the Maputo Central Hospital, the amount collected by
"special clinics" increased five fold, at current prices, between 1991-93. During the same period the cost
sharing in drugs increased from 2.2 percent to 4.2 percent of the value of drugs distributed in the sector.
This increase resulted from a 50 percent adjustment of the exchange rate used to calculate the "official
price" of drugs dispensed by the health units; in mid-1994, it was estimated that the indirect subsidy to
the "official price" of drugs was more than 75 percent.
1 .12   External Financing. The MOH estimates that external aid for recurrent expenditures increased
from US$ 24.1 million in 1989 to US$ 32.9 million in 1991. It is also estimated that 41 percent of the
donor support was used for technical assistance (mainly doctors), 49 percent for drugs and other medical
supplies, and 10 percent for other operating costs. Almost all investments in the sector (90 percent of
total) have been covered by grants and credits.4 The investment component of donor support has been
4The MOH estimates often differ from donors' figures, for several reasons. Donor estimates may include implementing
overheads, preparation periods, program managers' salaries, and audits. Also, there are time lags between actual expenditures and
disbursements, in some cases of more than one year. In 1991, based on disbursement figures - recurrent and investment -
disbursements for the health sector as a share of total external financing for some major donors were as follows: Italy/ltalian



-6-
Box 2: 7he Evolvng MOH Policy on Cost Sharing
Following the IDA -financed study on cost sharing in the health sector (Recuperacao de Custos na Saude em
Mocambique), done in 1989/90, the MOH has taken some key policy decisions regarding the cost sharing
scheme, in view of the need to increase the ratio of cost sharing while effectively protecting the "vulnerable
groups" of the population. These policy decisions can be summarized as follows:
(i)    Drugs
*      Maintain an indirect subsidy on all drugs dispensed by the health units of the National Health System
(NHS). The proportion of this subsidy should decrease over time in order to gradually adjust the
"official price "to market prices, through adjustments to the artificial exchange rate used to calculate
the prices at which drugs are sold to consumers by the NHS.
*      Maintain a single fixed fee for drugs dispensed by the rural primary health care health facilities, as
well as free dispensing of drugs to inpatients at all NHS health facilities. In the medium term steps
should be taken to initiate cost sharing in drugs, medical supplies and auxiliary diagnostic materials
and procedures provided to inpatients.
(ii)    Outpatients and Inpatients
*      Differentiate fees according to the level of the health care unit providing the service and between
general and specialty outpatient consultations.
*      Introduce, in the central andprovincial hospitals, differentialfeesforinappropriate use of emergency
services by patients.
*      Differentiate inpatientfees according to the levels of health care units to inpatient lodging conditions.
(iii)   Preventive Services
v      All preventive activities (such as vaccinations), because of their positive externalities, will continue
to be free to the whole population.
Improvements in the organization and collection offees should be sought, as well as in the capacity to monitor
the effects of the userfees scheme (and any adjustments to it) on patients' access to and use of health services.
Due to the prevailing poverty of the majority of the population, in both rural and urban areas, revisions of
the definitions of "vulnerable groups' and of the types of services to be given free of charge or with subsidies
in their cost should be continuously undertaken.
The MOH has already started to take the steps necessary to implement the policy decisions referred to above.
It is expected that with the full implementation of those decisions the global recovery from user fees could
gradually reach between 10-15 percent of recurrent expenditures by the year 2000.
increasing, more than doubling its share of total aid to the sector from 17 percent in 1990 to 35 percent
Cooperation (15.3%); IDA (10.5%); DenmarkIDANIDA (9.7%); Norway/NORAD (9.5%); Switzerland/SDC (9%); UNICEF
(8.8%); Sweden/SIDA (7.8%); and USAID (6.8%).



-7-
in 1991. Efforts are being made by both government and donors to ensure strong coordination in support
of the global, geographic and sectoral priorities which have been established. This is the only way to
ensure a more equitable allocation, rationalizing and keeping track of public health expenditures and of
external funding. The existence of a large number of separate projects in the sector (122 in 1994) is
recognized by government and donors to weaken the already-fragile managerial capacity in the sector, and
the need for parallel administrations directed by donors does not facilitate institutional development within
the sector. The basis of this coordination reflects a desire at the highest levels of the MOH, best
expressed by the former Minister of Health Leonardo Simao, "to move away from a Ministry of Health
Projects and towards a Ministry of Health Services", avoiding individual projects and duplication of
services as well as contradictory and often inequitable policies, decisions and activities.
Program Affordability
1.13   Despite the significant expansion in services expected to be achieved through the Health Sector
Recovery Program, recurrent costs induced by investment in health facilities are expected to rise by less
than 2 percent per year.  The reason for this low  increase is that much of the health facilities
infrastructure work in the sector is either rehabilitation or upgrading of existing structures. The overall
number of health personnel is expected to remain effectively at the present level, i.e., fluctuating less than
5 percent during the Program life (paras. 1.47, 1.48). Moreover, a significant share of civil works (e.g.,
construction of warehouses) is likely to yield net savings of recurrent resources. The financing of
incremental recurrent costs directly linked to infrastructure expansion/upgrading will be covered by
increases in the sector budget, while costs linked to improvements in the quality of services will be mostly
built into the overall cost of the Program and largely financed by donors on a declining basis over time
(e.g., maintenance, supervision activities, transportation, etc.). An increasing share of cost recovery will
help ensure long term stability of local resources.
1.14   The annual increase in the sector's recurrent expenditures to be financed by the GOM is estimated
at 4 percent between 1996 and 2000, compounded on a sharp initial increase of about 40 percent for 1995.
This figure translates into an increase in recurrent public spending from about US$ 0.80 per capita in
1995 to about US$ 1.10 per capita by the year 2000. Despite an estimated modest growth in overall
recurrent public expenditures between now and the end of the century (averaging less than 2 percent p.a.),
the share of health in the overall recurrent budget will increase only slightly from about 6.2 percent in
1995 to 6.9 percent in 200o5. The health sector investment budget is also anticipated to grow at 4 percent
p.a. during the life of the Program compared to 3 percent for the overall investment budget. (paras. 2.58
and 5.2)
5 According to the 1995 budget structure.



-8-
C. Sector Issues, Policy and Strategy (1996-2005)6
1 .15   The health sector situation is conditioned by: (a) absolute poverty of most of the population, with
the resulting low and declining living standards; (b) better access to and greater use of health care by the
urban population compared to the rural population; (c) limited government funding of the social sectors
for more than a decade; (d) worsening income distribution among the various social groups; and (e) due
to the end of the war, increased political pressure to rebuild the health care network in rural areas.
Main Health Problems
1.16   Mozambique has a typical pre-transitional epidemiological pattern. Infant mortality rate stands at
about 162 per thousand and child mortality rate at 282. Total fertility rate is 6.5 with no indications of
change. As in most sub-saharan countries, the main health problems in Mozambique are infectious and
parasitic diseases, particularly diarrhea, acute respiratory infection, measles, tuberculosis, malaria,
pneumonia and child malnutrition. Among adults the principal cause of morbidity is malaria, while
tuberculosis is the main reason for hospitalization and in patient mortality. Recently available facility-
based data indicate that the spread of HIV infection is still limited but rapidly on the increase.
1.17   Malnutrition is frequently a major compounding factor in morbidity and mortality, especially for
children. Data from spot surveys indicate that chronic malnutrition among children as measured by
stunting (height-for-age) is present in 30-40 percent of those surveyed, while acute malnutrition, measured
by wasting (weight-for-height) is present in about 6 percent of children. It is generally accepted that there
have not been any significant improvements in nutritional conditions in the rural areas despite peace.
There is some evidence that malnutrition has increased during the last few years, and most of the
population have food reserves for less than four months, with almost 60 percent of the population having
no food reserves.' Both chronic and acute nutritional problems directly aggravate the other health
problems of the population.
Health Sector Principles and Objectives
1.18   Mozambique inherited a health system located mostly in the urban areas (except for some scattered
health units run by religious organizations) and providing almost exclusively curative care. One month
after independence the government nationalized the health sector and prohibited the private practice of
medicine, intending to make all medical resources available to every citizen. As a result, the bulk of
modern health care is provided through the National Health Service, which is based on the following
mandates: (a) extend the health network and the benefits of the National Health Service throughout the
country, giving priority to preventive medicine; (b) develop a national curative care program both in the
urban and the rural areas, with priority to primary health care units; and (c) define and implement
adequate strategies aimed at fighting major endemic diseases.
6 The MOH document: Public Health Sector in Mozambique: A Post-War StrategyforRehabilitation andSustainedDevelopment
(1992) outlines the strategy for the sector. Five other MOH documents provide background for the strategy: (i) Revisdo da Politica
Nacional de Saude: Estrategias e Accoes Prioritarias (1991); (ii) Gastos, Financiamento eAfecta,cdo de Recursos no Sector de Satide
em Mo,cambique (1991): Evolucao Historica e Perspectivas Futuras (1991); (iii) PrivatizaVdo da Medicina; (1991) (iv) Previsdo das
consequencias do Fim da Guerra no Sector da Saude (1990); and (v) Health Manpower Development Plan (1991).
7Source: Centro de Intersecoes, a statistical unit supported by Medecins sans Frontieres (1993)



-9-
1.19   Through a series of policy adjustments which began in 1991, the following principles have been
affirmed as the basis for the National Health Policy: (a) maximizing the benefits from the use of available
resources; (b) fairness in distributing resources and equity in the access to health care across regions and
social groups; (c) freedom of users to choose their health care providers; (d) co-existence of public and
private sector; and (e) preservation of the basis and positive experiences gained through the National
Health Service in areas such as primary health care and essential drugs.
1.20   Within this framework, the objectives set for the health sector and re-stated in the Letter of Sector
Policy (Annex-1.2A) are:
(i)    to reduce mortality, morbidity and suffering, especially among high risk groups such as
women, children and all those displaced due to the war and natural disasters;
(ii)   to keep primary health care as the basis for the provision of good quality and sustainable
health care and make it accessible to the majority of the population;
(iii)   to develop the technical and managerial capacity of the MOH for planning, implementing
and evaluating health care and support services.
Health Services Delivery
1.21   Primary Health Care is the driving strategy of the Mozambican health system.8  Four levels of
care have been established. The first level is made up of health centers and health posts. Basic curative
and preventive out-patient services are provided in an integrated way: when a mother arrives with her sick
child at a clinic, the mother hears the daily health education talk, the child is treated, child and mother
receive needed vaccinations, and the mother receives family planning services or her pregnancy is
checked. This integrated approach minimizes the chance of missed opportunities for preventive services.
The health center also provides obstetric care for uncomplicated deliveries.  The second level is
constituted by rural hospitals (in the rural areas) and general hospitals (in towns). These hospitals play
a crucial role in the health care delivery system, because they can both offer some specialized health care
and also provide technical and organizational support to peripheral primary health care units. The third
level is composed of provincial hospitals with basic specialties (internal medicine, general surgery,
pediatrics and obstetrics/gynecology). Finally, the fourth level is made up of central and specialized
hospitals providing the highest level of referral for curative care in the country.
1.22   The priority given to first level health care, to provide a basic package of preventive, promotive
and curative health services, was clearly demonstrated by the rapid growth in the numbers of Health
Centers (from 120 in 1975 to 223 in 1982) and Health Posts (from 326 in 1975 to 1,195 in 1985). The
number of hospitals did not change. An Essential Drugs Program, launched in 1986 within the National
Drug Policy Framework, aimned at covering the most basic needs at the first level of health care.
1.23   Basic Package of Health Services. The basic package of services which the MOH is attempting
to provide to the majority of the population, although it is not formally defined as a 'package", includes
8The Mozambican Health System was one of the leading examples for the World Health Organization when it adopted Primary
Health Care as the strategy to achieve its goal Health for All by the year 2000 in the famous conference of Alma Ata in 1978.



-10-
essential curative services (e.g., care for malaria, diarrhea with dehydration, acute respiratory infections,
moderate and severe malnutrition, trauma and delivery and postpartum care), preventive and health
promotion activities (e.g., immunization, antenatal care, health and sanitation education, nutritional
monitoring, family planning), and appropriate referral services.  MCH  services are offered in an
integrated way to minimize missed opportunities.
1.24   Health Network Rehabilitation and Development. Based on the objectives listed above, the
Health Sector Recovery Program mandates giving high priority to preventive medicine, but without
neglecting the role of curative services in delivering integrated health care to the population. Primary
health care is to continue to be the basis of the public health care delivery system, and its coverage is to
be expanded in the rural areas. Promoting and protecting the health of high risk populations and
preventing and controlling transmissible diseases continue to be priority objectives.  Similarly, the
assurance of timely referral of patients to higher tiers of the health care system constitutes an important
concern. Finally, improved management, efficiency and quality of health units, better equipment and
infrastructure maintenance, and gradual improvement of clinical technologies (including diagnostic
facilities) up to regional standards are also priorities.
1.25   In infrastructure rehabilitation/reconstruction, priority is to be given to the primary level of care.
However, rural secondary care has always been weak in Mozambique and attention also will be given to
upgrading and expanding the rural hospital network. In particular, all rural hospitals must become
capable of offering emergency surgical and obstetric services. The upgrading of rural health services will
be a contribution of the health sector to restoration of normal life in the countryside. Some resources will
also be dedicated to upgrading health services in the peri-urban areas which have become swollen with
rural migrants, not all of whom will return to the countryside. In the rehabilitation process, therefore,
first priority will be given to rural primary level facilities and rural hospitals, and, where appropriate, to
primary level facilities in peri-urban areas.
1.26   An important element of the rehabilitation strategy is to continue to redress the imbalances
inherited from colonial rule. To achieve this, in the rural areas hospitals need to be rehabilitated or
extended and some existing health centers upgraded to rural hospitals, construction of Polyvalent Village
Health Workers (APES)-staffed community health posts in villages will be promoted, and efforts will be
made to gradually introduce preventive activities in all health posts. In the urban areas, the primary
health care network should be extended through health centers with maternity services, but only where
justifiable by population increases.  In the larger cities (Maputo, Beira, Nampula and Nacala),
construction or extension of general hospitals should be foreseen as a solution to relieve pressure on
central hospitals, thus allowing for improved service delivery and for lower-cost inpatient and outpatient
services.
1.27   Rural/General Hospitals: The existing Rural Hospital network (24 Rural Hospitals) should be
rehabilitated by the year 2005, and another 15 Rural Hospitals should be introduced in the system. Most
of the new proposed Rural Hospitals (RHs) should result from the conversion and expansion of existing
Health Centers (HCs). Criteria for the selection of such facilities include population size and density,
availability of roads, and the economic importance of the district. Nationally, the planned increase will
provide one rural hospital per 475,000 inhabitants (as opposed to one per 61 1,000 now), with improved
equity in their distribution among the provinces.
1.28   First Level Facilities In Rural Areas: Rural Health Centers in Mozambique were initially
designed as relatively large units, with correspondingly high staff levels and operating costs. They have



-11-
often operated inefficiently, because larger units are more difficult to manage and because the difficulties
of rural transport make a catchment area with a radius of more than a few kilometers unrealistic. In the
future, physical accessibility and population density will be more important criteria in determining the size
and location of rural health facilities. In general, fewer, if any large health centers will be built, and
more reliance will be placed on the provision of a larger number of small facilities situated closer to
people's homes. These health facilities will have preventive, promotive and curative functions. All the
health centers will be able to carry out normal, deliveries and deal with some of the important common
complications of childbirth.
1.29   The goal is that by the year 2005, the number of first level facilities should be close to the number
which existed before the war: 1,284 primary health care units, including 173 health centers, 661 smaller
health centers, and 450 health posts. To achieve that goal will require that:
(a)    173 health centers be rehabilitated and extended, of which 92, in district capitals, will
have maternity wards;
(b)    509 health posts be converted to small health centers, and 152 new small health centers
built;
(c)    450 village health posts be rehabilitated or built.
1.30   First Level Facilities In Urban Areas: The urban areas are in a favorable position, compared
to the rural areas, and no significant expansion is expected in their facilities. Efforts should concentrate
on improving service quality and efficiency. The strategy dictates that:
(a)    38 existing urban health centers be renovated, with maternity wards added;
(b)    48 existing urban health posts be converted to small health centers; and
(c)    36 small health centers be constructed in peri-urban areas.
Thus, by the year 2005 the urban areas will have the equivalent of one health center and four small health
centers for every 50,000 urban inhabitants.
1.31   Provincial and Central Hospital Network: Urban hospitals, which are relatively well-developed,
absorb a disproportional amount of health sector expenditures and present ample opportunities for
improving efficiency. It should be possible to improve the quality and increase the volume of their
services without a proportionate increase in resource allocation. The strategy for the rehabilitation of
third and fourth level facilities encompasses:
(a)    physical rehabilitation of hospitals, which have had essentially no maintenance during the
past two decades;
(b)    preparation of development policies for the city hospital network;
(c)    organizational steps to improve service quality and efficiency.



-12-
1.32   Pharmaceuticals. Since 1976, Mozambique has had a National Drug Formulary (NDF) which
includes, under their generic names, a limited list of drugs and medical supplies deemed essential to
diagnose, prevent and/or treat the great majority of diseases in the country. The small, well organized
Formulary explains clearly which drug can be described at which level of care and by which level of
health worker. The use of generic names in prescribing drugs was made mandatory and the purchase of
drugs was restricted to those included in the NDF. A Ministerial Decree urged the preparation of
therapeutic protocols for treatment of the most common diseases, later published as a Therapeutic Guide.
The use of the protocols approved for treatment of major endemic diseases is compulsory. In spite of a
relatively effective essential drugs program, lack of foreign exchange and wartime shortages of drugs in
the health facilities hampered the effectiveness of the health system and affected the trust of the
population. Specific problems limiting the availability of drugs are irregular imports due to donor
dependency, irregular distribution, and leakages mainly at the service delivery level.
1.33   The flight of importing companies and of retail pharmacy owners before and after independence
led to the creation of the parastatals MEDIMOC to ensure the import and export of pharmaceutical and
medical supplies and FARMAC to keep the abandoned retail pharmacy network working properly. Since
1986, MEDIMOC also has been in charge of internal distribution of pharmaceutical products to the
provincial level. Both organizations are in the process of adapting to the health service expanded coverage
and the renewed possibility of road transportation and decentralized stockholding which have been made
possible by peace.
1.34   Every effort will be made to keep health personnel supplied with essential drugs. The objective
is to maintain (and hopefully surpass), during the program life, the annual per capita level of
pharmaceuticals provision of about US$1.20 achieved in 1992-93. To achieve this and improve quality,
the rehabilitation strategy is to enhance and improve the National Pharmaceutical Policy, based on the
Essential Drugs Concept, centralized procurement of generic drugs, and development of a quality
assurance system. Rational use of pharmaceuticals will be promoted at all levels of the health care system
in order to protect the public and improve the efficiency of drug use; this is specially important since
drugs absorb a large share of health sector recurrent expenditures.
1.35   Maintenance. After almost two decades without proper maintenance, all facilities at all levels
of the health care system are in serious need of rehabilitation, as are diagnostic and support facilities.
Much too often, capital investments are made in health facilities, equipment and vehicles without adequate
provision for maintenance. The result is that the new structures and equipment deteriorate rapidly and
have to be replaced prematurely, so that much of the original investment is wasted. Adequate systems
of infrastructure and equipment maintenance need to be developed urgently.
1.36   The implementation of the health sector program, with provision of new or renovated buildings,
new medical equipment, furniture and vehicles, will require the following corresponding efforts to
improve maintenance:
(a)    formulation and adoption of policies, strategies and approaches specifically related to
maintenance of health care facilities, medical equipment and vehicles, as part of overall
national health policies;
(b)    development of a national maintenance plan, which defines the responsibilities of the
central, provincial and district levels for each type of maintenance for the broad
categories of facilities,equipment and vehicles;



-13-
(c)    establishment of information systems capable of receiving, assimilating and disseminating
technical information to the health sector;
(d)    strengthening of technical service infrastructures attached to national health systems, with
provision of a framework for effective and sustainable maintenance and repair services,
with consideration of the recurrent cost implications of maintenance; and
(e)    strengthening of national maintenance training capacity and training of national, provincial
and local staff, including technicians, operators and users, within the existing training
facilities.
Institutional Development
1.37   The MOH institutions evolved to provide central planning, management and support for the
developing structures, health services and human resources of the sector. More recently, they have been
made responsible for building the foundations for the decentralization of health services delivery and for
delegation of greater financial and administrative autonomy to provinces and then to district authorities.
This will parallel efforts to improve both the quality and the regional distribution of health services, along
with increased coverage within regions. The main objective of institutional development activities in
health is to improve the efficiency of resource utilization in the sector, especially with regard to human
resources which are the binding resource constraint. Therefore, the MOH's institutional development
activities focus progressively on strengthening the central, provincial and district levels to take on their
new roles and responsibilities, and on strengthening linkages among and more effective management
within health units, especially hospitals. Actions required and planned include systems development,
procedural designs, pre-and in-service training, and the establishment of improved supervision, monitoring
and feedback.  Initial focus is on the priority areas of training, personnel management, financial
management, supplies, maintenance, and supervision.
1.38   Management. Decentralization and Policy Development. A major goal of the rehabilitation
strategy is the development of a management framework supported by an internal management
development capacity that would gradually improve the delivery of health services at all levels of the
health system. In this commitment to management change, the MOH will be guided by the following
principles:
(a)    incremental management change, beginning with what exists and improving upon it,
rather than introducing something entirely new; the changes will begin modestly and later
increase in scope and intensity;
(b)    flexibility, to take advantage of unexpected opportunities and adapt to changing
circumstances, with emphasis on provincial level management which should be developed
early in the program;
(c)    collaboration among government, donors and NGOs to ensure compatibility and to forge
links that allow for learning from each others' experiences.
1.39   Furthermore, the use of resource allocation as a means of implementing government health policy
implies reform of the present system of financial management. Procedures must be developed to
strengthen the links: (a) between health planning and administrative systems (for example, by making



-14-
budget categories correspond to planning categories such as levels of health care); (b) among the various
administrative levels of the national health service; (c) among departments of the MOH; (d) between the
MOH, the Ministry of Finance and Plan; and so on. Such reform will not be easy, but is essential to
effectively translate health policy into action more effectively.
1 .40   Supplv System. Improved distribution of pharmaceutical and medical supplies to health care units
should lead to more efficient use of available resources and ultimately to better health care. The strategy
considers the need to integrate the existing MOH distribution system (fragmented by project-driven
procedures and financing), to establish stock management policies at all levels of the distribution chain,
and to develop adequate stock control procedures for both pharmaceutical and medical supplies. Efforts
will be made: (a) to develop or refine standard lists of medical supplies and to prepare a catalogue
focussing on those items used at primary and secondary levels of health care, to facilitate better
management; and (b) to develop management capacity at the health unit and provincial levels.
1.41   Strengthening management capacity should be complemented by provision of better storage
facilities, including rehabilitation/construction of: (a) regional pharmaceutical warehouses in Maputo,
Nacala and Beira; and (b) 14 new provincial or inter-district warehouses (10 for medical supplies and 4
for pharmaceutical) in 8 provinces.
1.42   Information System.  The health information system, as a key element for better health
management, is also in need of rationalization, and the elements related to the primary and secondary
levels of health care, systematically improved since 1989, must be further revised.  Design and
development of an "integrated" health information system covering epidemiological data, services, finance,
human resources and supplies is a necessary step towards better policy definition and improvement of
health sector management. Only necessary data should be collected, analyzed and interpreted in as simple
a form as possible, and channeled rapidly to those who will use it -- including those who generated the
data in the first place.
Human Resources Development
1.43   Mozambique's national policy regarding human resources for the health sector has developed
progressively since Independence, when personnel who had gained health care experience during the
struggle for independence joined those trained earlier as the core of the national health staff. New types
of health workers were developed in Mozambique to meet specific needs of a health system designed for
high coverage with basic services. Both the system and its new types of personnel were featured at the
Alma Ata conference which launched the worldwide Primary Health Care movement in 1978. More than
10,000 health workers were trained between 1976 and 1992, although from 1982 the intensified war,
targeting health workers and teachers, forced them to concentrate in provincial and district capitals. A
1991 MOH review of the national health manpower policies and situation found the majority of health
workers to be hospital-oriented, concentrated in cities (1/4 in Maputo) and hospitals, and either untrained
or trained only at a basic level. In 1990, the MOH re-authorized the private practice of medicine
(outlawed soon after independence).
1.44   In 1992, as part of development of its health sector recovery strategy, the GOM approved the
MOH's Health Manpower Development Plan, 1992-2002, through which the Ministry conforms its staff
training and deployment program to national health policy goals and upgrades the quality and mix of the
staff and of their skills. The plan also provides for the improvement of training capacity. The training
institutions involved are the four Health Sciences Institutes (training middle level and specialized workers),



-15-
the six Health Training Centers (training lower level workers), and the WHO/MOH Regional Center for
Health Development (in Maputo, providing training of trainers and specific courses for workers at mid-
level and above). The medical school, founded in 1963, continues to graduate 12-20 physicians per year
and is attempting to strengthen its community medicine program in keeping with community needs and
national health policy. Polyvalent village health workers (APES), still trained at provincial and district
level facilities, are not MOH staff members and are not considered in the plan.
1.45   Health services are only as good as their health workers, who are the most valuable resource of
any health system. In Mozambique, it is necessary to increase the productivity of health personnel and
to improve the quality of their care. Measures to be taken to accomplish this include the following:
(a)    rehabilitate and equip training institutions, strengthen teaching staff, and review and
revise curricula and training programs and materials;
(b)    apply stricter educational criteria in the selection of candidates for basic training;
(c)    place more emphasis on refresher and upgrading courses for existing health personnel;
(d)    facilitate promotion, including promotion between grades, and base such promotion on
more objective criteria, so that personnel will have greater professional and material
incentives to perform well;
(e)    increase support to existing personnel by establishing systems of in-service training and
regular supervision and by increasing the flow of professional information; and
(f)    improve the compensation of health personnel to levels which prevailed at the beginning
of the 1980's.
1.46   During the 1980's, many health workers moved from rural to urban areas and from working at
the first level of care to higher levels. This applied particularly to doctors and nurses, who were capable
of working in hospitals. With the end of the war, special attention will now be paid to encouraging health
personnel to work in the rural areas and in under-served provinces where they are greatly needed, and
to rewarding them for doing so. Among the measures to be taken will be the following:
(a)    recruit more trainees from underprivileged provinces and areas, since they will be more
prepared to work in such places after graduation;
(b)    give priority for post-basic training and for promotion to personnel who have served in
priority areas;
(c)    provide housing for rural health personnel;
(d)    institute a system of allowances to compensate personnel for hardship postings and for
lost opportunities to earn additional income; and
(e)    establish clearer regulations regarding the obligation to serve in rural and other priority
areas.



-16-
1.47   The government health budget will be constrained for the foreseeable future. If the real salaries
of public health workers are to increase, a limit must be placed on the number of health workers that the
government employs. The Ministries of Health and of Planning and Finance have agreed that in the
medium term the total number of employees of the national health service should remain effectively at
the present level (i.e., fluctuating less than 5 percent) and by the turn of the century it will not exceed
18,000. However, within those limits the numbers of qualified and more highly trained professionals will
be increased by the following means:
(a)    some support personnel will be upgraded to become, or will be replaced by, professional
health personnel; the ratio of trained to untrained employees in the health service will be
increased from the present 1:1 to 2:1; and
(b)    the proportion of health workers in the middle and higher grades will be increased; this
will be achieved by post-basic training and promotion of personnel from lower grades and
by expansion of recruitment for the basic training of middle and high grades.
1.48   The key categories of the basic grade will be medical aides (tecnicos and agentes de medicina),
preventive health aides (tecnicos and agentes de medicina preventiva), and maternal and child health
nurses (enfermeiros basicos de saade materno infantil). These workers will be the main personnel for
the new, smaller health centers and the backbone of the primary level services. They will be trained in
sufficient numbers to staff the rehabilitated and expanded rural health services infrastructure.
National Programs
1.49   In an attempt to ensure adequate services and better resource management in key program areas,
the MOH delineated and implemented national programs in several major areas of health care, with
centralized management and strict therapeutic norms. Programs were designed and are being implemented
in Environmental Sanitation, TB and Leprosy, Mother and Child Health (including Family Planning, and
recently also the Expanded Program of Immunization), Malaria and Bilharzia, and AIDS and Sexually
Transmitted Diseases. The MOH has also established over the years its own capacity for nutritional and
epidemiological surveillance, health education, staff training, and statistics collection. The National
Health Strategy emphasizes integration of the services and management of these programs into the
mainstream of the overall MOH program. A number of parastatals associated with the MOH are in
charge of general service and support activities such as equipment maintenance and general supplies.
D. Country Assistance Strategy
1.50   IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), presented to the Board jointly with this operation,
stresses the need for investment in human resources as key instrument in the country's long-term strategy.
The objective of the CAS is to support the Government's  program   for  poverty  reduction
through sustainable economic growth. In doing so, the CAS focuses particularly on the medium term
development efforts directed towards human resources development and economic growth. Economic
growth is fundamental to poverty reduction in Mozambique, because the country is too poor to rely
only on redistributive policies for sustained poverty reduction. How growth is achieved will also
affect poverty. In Mozambique, a poverty reducing growth pattern will involve a shift of
resources and opportunities toward human resources and the rural areas where the poorest



-17-
populations live. Recent government policy will facilitate this as the marked decrease in military
expenditures releases resources for increases in the recurrent budgets for health and education services.
E. Lessons of Past IDA Experience
1.51   The only previous IDA-financed project in the sector is the on-going Health and Nutrition Project
(Health I). Implementation of Health I progressed at an unsatisfactory pace between 1989-92, having
disbursed only about one-fifth of total funds (US$ 6.4 Million, one-third of which being simply the initial
deposit in the special account) in contrast with the SAR projection of roughly 50 percent over the same
four year period. In 1992/93, the project was substantially restructured to facilitate implementation and
to address new sector priorities.
1.52   At the time the project was restructured, an estimated 70 percent of project funds had not yet been
contracted. Moreover, some 15 percent of these uncommitted funds were considered unlikely to be spent
within the remaining life of the project. The restructuring mission indicated to the government that before
additional IDA funds could be made available under a proposed Health Sector Recovery Program, the
implementation of Health I had to show significant improvements. In light of the recent important
political events which have brought access to a previously unreachable countryside, and guided closely
by the country's health strategy outlined above, the restructuring exercise emphasized a reallocation of
resources from Maputo to the rural areas, with strong support for pharmaceuticals and training.
Approximately one-fourth of the credit was re-directed for these purposes. Also, a preliminary costing
exercise for activities proposed for the Health Sector Recovery Program yielded information on likely
candidates for early financing within the objectives of Health 1. At the time of the appraisal mission,
nearly 80 percent of the IDA credit had been formally (i.e., contractually) committed and more than 50
percent disbursed.



-18-
Box 3: Causes of Implementation Failures in the Early Years of Health I
Proiect Desizn and Preparation Issues:
*      The Health I proje(c was identified and prepared during a time when a sector strategy had not
been ful/v formulated bh MOH.
*      Ar effectiveness, most components were at early stages of preparation. Few terms of reference
Jor consultancies andfew procurement documents had been prepared, and much of the costing was
still tentative.
*      Shortage of human resources to implement the project was not adequately taken into account,
especially given the large numbers of implementing agencies involved.
*      Sonme of the components were included into the project with little participation (and sometimes
even little consultation) by implementing institutions.
*      The large number of studies contained in the project was not compatible with the MOH's limited
ability to absorb information being generated, let alone provide the necessary inputs to their
irnplementation.
Proiect Implementation Issues:
*      For most staff of the MOH, this was the first exposure to preparation of TORs, lists of
acquisitions, tender documents, etc.
*      The turnover rate in the MOH was high, especially at senior levels. Few of today's' national
directors were in volved in the preparation of thefirst project. As a consequence, the general level
of cotmmitment to the project was low, as was knowledge of project details.
*      Various MOH depariments coexisted without sufficient coordination oreven the minimum exchange
of information required for effective implementation of the project.
*      The MOF's procedures and time requirements for contract approval (averaging 2 months)
compounded delays in the MOH's own cumbersome procurement procedures.
*      Procurement and disbursement arrangements adopted were not suitable for the project.
*      The Bank took too long to realize that the problems in the project would not correct themselves
with time and that substantial reprogramming of activities would therefore be advisable.



-19-
1 .53   Lessons learned in Health I have   Box 4: Heath I Accomplishments
been applied in the design of the
proposed Program. The first project's                    Health I Accomplishments
delays in tendering have been countered
by extensive planning and preparation of          Supported the developmenr of the National Health
tender  documents  during   Program               Sector Strategy  and  the Health  Manpower
preparation.  Recognition   of  the               Development Plan;
importance  of  reliable  and  direct
communication with the Bank led to the            Supported the increase in efficiencv of central
establishment of All-in-1 communications          hospitals operations (on-going),
with the MOH, which are being upgraded            Provided advance financing for the purchase of
and expanded now. Flexibility on the part         equipment, primarilv' to be allocated to facilities
of the Bank as to reprogramming of
ofalthe Bank aeso s to retteproracommin   oscheduled to be rehabilitated under the Health
Health I resources to better accomplishSetrRce'
Sector RecroversX Program,
the project's objectives and to contribute
to a longer term and broader view of the           Financed the preparation 4f architectural designs
sector's  support  and   development              for the construction of health centers, rural
permitted  greater  responsiveness  to            hospitals, warehouses and training institutes to be
borrower needs and to the changing                financed bv IDA and other donors under the
national situation. That flexibility also         proposed Health Sector Recovery Program;
contributed   to  improved   donor
coordination  and  will be  especially            Assisted in the stabilization of pharmaceuticals'
important under the proposed Program.             supply; and
Provided advance-financing of health staff training
originally programmned jor the Health Sector
Recovery Program.
F. The 1996-2000 Integrated Health Sector Prograni
1 .54   In recent years, the MOH has increasingly taken the lead in encouraging donor coordination with-
in the health sector. The National Health Strategy (MHS) acknowledges the cricial importance of donor
funding for the development of the health sector and the need to involve donors in the health planning
and review process. The Ministry has held regular donor coordinatioin meetings since 1992, to ensure
coordinated donor support to the implementation of the health strategy. The MOH has proposed the
following principles to its donor partners:
(a)    The MHS will serve as the framework for all donor contributions to the sector and all
donor support should fit within it.
(b)    Based on the MHS, the MOH will develop a five-year rolling program and an annual
budget for recurrent costs. The Program will be discussed and updated annually with all
donors and will fully reflect all donor support, emphasizing support consonant with the



-20-
strategic plan.  The investment program  and the recurrent budget will represent a
consolidation of the programs from the center, provinces, and districts.
(c)    For the recurrent budget, all donor support must be channelled to the provinces using a
single set of planning, budgeting, disbursement and accounting mechanisms.
(d)    Procedures for procurement of technical assistance, civil works, pharmaceuticals, goods
and services will be coordinated with the aim to gradually consolidate them.
(e)    Monitoring and evaluation procedures of donors (including formal audits) will be
gradually unified and regular supervision coordinated along broad lines of activities.
Box 5: Movement Toward an Integrated Health Sector Approach in Mozambique
The Health Sector Recovery Program initially was prepared as a regular investment project with narrow
objectives and scope. During project preparation, the MOH, IDA and other donors felt that the
implementation of yet another individual project (adding to a list of over 120 current health projects) would
impose a heavy burden on the capacity of the ministry. Moreover, the project would have perpetuated the
provincial fragmentation of external assistance to the country. Also, because the IDA credit would have to
be justifiable on its own, the project would inevitably focus on the types of sector activities which IDA finds
palatable but which are not necessarily the highest priorities for the sector given existing commitments by
other donors. The result would have been an unbalanced program, full of financial gaps in important
activities which are usually neglected or avoided by donors. Even if we had produced a successful insular
projecl, our impact would have been small, as is the case with some other such projects in the sector. Even
the impact of the resulting sector program, the sum of all these insular projects, might well have been small,
despite a sound sector strategy which has been developed over a period of overfive years in a continuous
active dialogue with all major donors.
Because the sector has a coherent and stable strategy, which is accepted by all major donors, it was not
difficult for the Bank to come in as donor of last resort. During project preparation, the missions, time and
again, prepared tender documentation for activities that were eventually taken over by other donors. In the
end, having accepted the overall strategy, the Bank had no difficulty infinancing afew less palatable portions
of the whole.



-21-
II. THE PROGRAM
2.1    The ultimate objective of the National             Fgure 2: Heath Sector Program 1996-2000
Health Strategy (MHS) is the improvement of the     90
health status of the population, in general, and a  80                     n            G
decrease  in  infant and  child  mortality, in      70    n                            DONORS
particular. MHS objectives are to be achieved       60                                  IDA
through an increase in health coverage of the       50
population from the present 40 percent level to    , 40
60 percent by the turn of the century, with better  30
quality  of services  provided. Through  the        20
coordination  of all major donors and  the          10
government, the Program will finance a five-year     0
time slice of the MHS.                                    96      97       98      99      00
Year
A. Summary of Program Objectives
2.2    The Program  supports the same objectives as the Mozambican National Health Strategy, as
outlined in the previous chapter and is focused on basic services, addressing urban/rural inequities,
improvement of staff training and institutional development. Being sector-wide, the Program provides
an operational framework for the overall Ministry of Health. In accordance with the sector's policy and
strategy and under the overall coordination of the Ministry's Planning Directorate, MOH teams identified
specific outputs and prepared the various Program components described in this chapter. The Program
will address the following areas:
(a)    resumption of and improvement in the quality of health services provided so that the overall
sector investment strategy yields a higher level of services, as the sector recovers, by:
(i)      rehabilitating and expanding the network of first level health facilities;
(ii)     rehabilitating and restructuring the network of rural hospitals, and rehabilitating
the network of provincial and central hospitals;
(iii)    strengthening laboratory facilities in health centers and hospitals;
(iv)     assuring stability in the provision of medical supplies, pharmaceuticals and
laboratory reagents;
(v)      supporting a national maintenance strategy in the sector; and
(vi)     supporting an institutional nutrition program for severely malnourished children
and for in-patients; and
(vii)    supporting general provincial operations for health;



-22-
(b)    promotion and improvement of sector institutions, support services and sub-national health
management systems, by:
(i)      establishing policies and procedures and expanding storage capacity aimed at
improving the supply system for medical supplies and pharmaceuticals;
(ii)    improving the provincial health management system, in coordination with a
decentralization of functions to the provinces;
(iii)    supporting and strengthening central administration, thus enabling national
implementation of the Program;
(iv)     improving the sector's information system; and
(v)      supporting the development of sector policy, including systematic evaluations of
the sector's program based on comprehensive consultations with ultimate clients;
(c)    development of human resources capacity, by:
(i)      reassessing and implementing a time-slice of the Health Manpower Development
Plan;
(ii)     developing the national capacity for health personnel training;
(iii)    promoting continuing education of health workers; and
(iv)     enhancing university medical and health science training.
B. Detailed Program Description
2.3    To address these objectives, the Program has three principal domains: (a) Health Services
Delivery; (b) Institutional Support; and (c) Human Resources Development.
Domain A. Health Services Delivery (US$ 256.2 million, IDA: US$ 62.8 million)
2.4   In this domain, the Program aims to support and improve health services delivery, primarily in
rural areas, through: (i) (re)construction, rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance of infrastructures and
equipment in the health sector, which are essential for the provision of services at the first and second
levels of health care; and (ii) stabilization of provision of pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents, medical
supplies, and food for in-patients. The goal is to improve the health status of the population particularly
in areas where both health indicators and access to health care are below the national averages. This
domain also includes all general provincial operations. (paras. 1.21 to 1.36)
2.5    The two infrastructure development components are: (i) Health Facilities Development and (ii)
Rural Health Development Fund.



-23-
2.6     Health Facilities Development (US$ 81.6 million, IDA: US$ 16.6 million). The Program will
(re)construct, upgrade and rehabilitate health facilities at all levels.9
2.7     The IDA credit will finance: (i) civil works for the rehabilitation of three rural hospitals (Mueda,
Gurue and Buzi) and houses for hospital staff; (ii) medical equipment, kitchen and laundry equipment and
furniture for the rehabilitated units; and (iii) motor vehicles and bicycles. Recurrent costs, including
medical supplies, pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents, and maintenance for the rehabilitated and
(re)constructed units will also be financed by the credit through national programs.
2.8     The EU also supports major reconstruction works to the network of rural hospitals. Despite major
planned contributions by other donors, a shortage of donor funds is expected for the higher levels of care.
Other donor organizations, including AFDB, DANIDA, FINIDA, NORAD, Italian Cooperation,
UNICEF, WFP and many NGOs, are heavily involved in the construction of basic care facilities.
2.9     Rural Health Development Fund (HDF) (US$ 30.7 million, IDA: US$ 15.2 million). The HDF'
will provide the MOH with a flexible mechanism to construct/rehabilitate approximately 240 first level
health facilities and other directly health-related infrastructures. The objectives of the Rural Health
Development Fund are to improve equity in the distribution of and access to first level health facilities,"
by: (i) creating a flexible funding mechanism to finance the construction of primary health facilities and
other facilities directly linked to health services in the poorest, least-served, rural areas; (ii) encouraging
project-design/implementing capacity at the village level by supporting participatory methodologies and
MOH-community-NGO partnerships; and (iii) contributing to decentralization and capacity building within
the MOH by expanding activity, training, and responsibility at the provincial levels.
2.10   The IDA credit will finance: (i) civil works for the (re)construction of about 240 health centers
and posts, including water supply and sanitation facilities; (ii) about 600 modest houses for health staff;
(iii) medical equipment and furniture for the new and rehabilitated units and for other first level facilities;
and (iv) bicycles and motor bicycles with 2.5 years of spare parts. Recurrent costs, including medical
supplies, pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents, and maintenance in the (re)constructed units will also be
financed by the credit through national programs. Staffing of these new and rehabilitated facilities will
be achieved through redeployment of health workers currently concentrated in cities and by employment
of limited numbers of new health workers.
2.11    The Norwegian Government will finance approximately 240 sets of solar panels and related cold
chain equipment and lighting. The World Food Program will finance the cost of mobilizing unskilled
community labor with incentive packages consisting of a food ration or a combination of cash and food
commodities, depending on the food supply situation in each specific location. Community participation
may include the clearing of land, ground work and brick manufacturing.
9A significant portion of rural hospital equipment is being procured under the reprogrammed Health and Nutrition Program.
10 The HDF will assist the MOH in playing its role in planning and coordination of the rehabilitation of the network of first
level facilities in the country. The HDF will also provide an effective instrument for further pooling of financial assistance.
1 l The distribution of the moneys of the HDF among the provinces will be based mainly on the number of people per first level
health facility and on the present average catchment area of these facilities in each province.



-24-
2.12   Laboratories Strengthening (US$ 2.6 million. IDA: US$ 2.6 million). The objective is to establish
a well-functioning network of clinical and public health laboratories to respond adequately to the principal
health problems in the country. The component will support the gradual improvement of clinical
laboratory technology and the capacity of bio-medical diagnosis. The component will also support the
(re)equipment of those facilities which have been prioritized by the MOH. Other essential related
activities, such as training and supervision, are financed under other components of the Program.
2.13   The IDA credit will finance: (i) civil works for the rehabilitation of 12 laboratory facilities in first
and second level health units not included in other components of Health Facilities Development; and (ii)
equipment and furniture for the same facilities. Recurrent costs, including laboratory reagents and
maintenance for the rehabilitated facilities, will also be financed through national programs.
2.14   SDC and (for AIDS control) the EU are financing the strengthening of certain public health
laboratory facilities, and SAREC research funds are strengthening National Institute of Health
laboratories.
2.15   Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies Program (US$ 25.7 million. IDA: US$ 19.6 million). This
component has as objectives to: (i) provide stability in the procurement and provision of essential drugs
included in the National Drug Formulary, laboratory reagents and medical supplies to the health facilities
and other drug outlets throughout the country; and (ii) provide a venue for donor coordination in this sub-
sector. The Program will provide: (i) a minimum level of the country's needs for these items; and (ii)
financing for the management and operation of the national drug supply.
2.16   The IDA credit will finance: (i) the stabilization of the program by assuring a minimum coverage
of about 10 percent of the national needs in pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents, materials, and medical
supplies; and (ii) costs incurred in the procurement and distribution of supplies.'2 Other donors will
finance the balance of the minimum needs for pharmaceuticals, estimated at US$ 1.00 per capita, as well
as the balance of needs for medical supplies.
2.17   Donors providing budgetary support through a pooling arrangement for drugs include SDC, EU,
The Netherlands, Italian Cooperation and WHO. Several donors also provide drugs and medical supplies
through tied aid arrangements.
2.18   National Maintenance Program (US$ 4.5 million, IDA: US$ 2.7 million). The Program aims to
strengthen the establishment of a culture in which the maintenance of civil works and hospital equipment
again becomes a priority. The current maintenance policy is moving towards a decentralized mode where
three regional maintenance centers, established within the three central hospitals, are providing services
and supervision to provincial workshops in the neighboring provinces. At present the MOH is, through
these provincial and regional maintenance units, responsible for technical assistance (preventive and
curative maintenance) for four broad categories of items: (i) buildings (including all MOH health service,
administrative and training facilities); (ii) general hospital equipment (e.g., kitchen and laundry
equipment); (iii) medical equipment (e.g., X-ray machines, laboratory equipment, etc.); and (iv) light
preventive maintenance of vehicles.
12 Until the National Drug Formulary is updated, orders of drugs will require explicit approval by the National Director of
Health.



-25-
2.19   The IDA credit will finance: (i) a part of the national needs in tools and shop equipment for the
reinforcement of the national and regional centers and the establishment of provincial units; (ii) partial
needs in spares and materials for the system based on the needs and requests coming from the regional
and provincial levels; (iii) pre-service training, on-the-job-training, seminars, and supervision activities
especially regional supervision of provinces; (iv) vehicles for regional centers and motor bikes for the
provincial units; and (v) technical assistance in hospital maintenance management to be located in the
national maintenance center, to support the supervision and management of the maintenance
decentralization.
2.20   Other donors supporting the National Maintenance Program include The Netherlands and Italian
Cooperation.
2.21   Institutional Feeding Program (US$ 10.4 million). The purpose of this component is to: (i) treat
severely malnourished children; (ii) provide in-patients of hospitals and health centers with adequate food
in order to accelerate patient recovery and thus increase hospital efficiency; and (iii) provide meals for
health workers participating in training courses.
2.22   The Program will finance: (i) food commodities (milk, oil and sugar) for therapeutic feeding of
severely malnourished children; (ii) the costs of providing regular meals to in-patients as well as health
workers attending courses in training institutions. The program will be financed by WFP, EU and SDC
through budgetary support and in-kind participation.
2.23   General Province Operations (US$ 100.8 million, IDA US$ 6.1 million). This component
accounts for all recurrent expenditures at the provincial level not included in other national programs.
The Program will finance part of the non-salary recurrent costs of all province operations. The bulk of
these expenditures will be financed by the GOM through the national budget.
2.24   The IDA credit will finance goods and services (e.g., some medical supplies, inputs for
maintenance of buildings and equipment), which are not being procured centrally through one of the
national programs.
2.25   Other donors supporting the general provincial operations, with TA, materials and supplies, and
budgetary support, include DANIDA, FINIDA, the Italian Cooperation, SDC, WHO and UNICEF.
Domain B. Institutional Support (US$ 63.6 million, IDA: US$ 14.8 million)
2.26   In this domain, the Program  aims to support and strengthen the sector management and
administration capacity through: (i) provision of a framework for continuous and sustainable management
improvements in the health system, with emphasis on the provincial and district levels and on financial
and personnel management; (ii) establishment of policies, procedures and infrastructures for effective
management of supplies; (iii) assistance to GACOPI to improve the administration of projects at central
and provincial levels; (iv) further development and increased coverage of the Health Information System;
and (v) assistance to sector policy development and project preparation. This component also includes the
general central operations. (paras. 1.37 to 1.42)
2.27   The main donors giving institutional support include AFDB, DANIDA, FINIDA, Italian
Cooperation, OPEC Fund, SDC, UNICEF and USAID.



-26-
2.28   Supply System Improvement (US$ 3.5 million, IDA: US$ 2.7 million). This component will help:
(i) establish policies, procedures and infrastructure required at the health unit, district and provincial levels
for effectively matching the supply of health-related commodities, including pharmaceuticals, to needs and
demands; and (ii) improve the efficiency of overall supply operations for all levels of health facilities. In
this context, the Program will support the development of a standardized list of basic medical supplies,
equipment and consumables in common use and of a stock control system at health unit, district, and
provincial levels.
2.29   The IDA credit will finance: (i) the development of a standard list of medical supplies in common
use, the development of a stock control system for use at health unit, district, and provincial levels and
the framing of a stock-holding policy for provincial health directorates, and further training of health
workers related to the distribution system; (ii) civil works for the construction of two warehouses for
medical supplies and pharmaceuticals (Pemba and Lichinga) and the upgrading of the Beira pharmaceutical
warehouse; (iii) equipment for the warehouses constructed and rehabilitated under the credit (forklifts and
pallet racks); and (iv) motor vehicles for the sector distribution chain.
2.30   The civil works financed by IDA complement major contributions of other donors for the
construction of warehouses in Chokwe, Mocuba and Cuamba. UNICEF supports the improvement of the
MOH transportation system.
2.31   Provincial Health Management Improvement (US$ 8.9 million, IDA: US$ 3.0 million). This
component will assist in: (i) identifying management problem areas, especially at the provincial level;
(ii) providing an overall framework and a realistic schedule for continuous and sustainable management
improvement at all levels; and (iii) undertaking actions derived from the problem identification and
framework development phases of the management improvement effort targeted at strengthening
management and administrative capacities within provincial-level health care operations, with special
attention to personnel and financial management systems and to donor coordination.
2.32   The component will operate at several levels over the course of the Program to strengthen
management capacities at the provincial and district levels, to improve task monitoring as well as health
post, health center, rural hospital and provincial hospital administration. The management improvement
program would focus initially on the provincial level and subsequently on district level operations. In
personnel management, the specific objectives are: (i) development of a personnel database at central and
provincial levels to improve the accuracy of personnel data; and (ii) delegation to the provinces of
decision making authority in most matters of staff management. In financial management improvement,
the specific objectives are: (i) strengthening procedures to coordinate the planning and budgeting activities
of the health sector, and development of a financial information system to support decision-making; (ii)
improvement of the financial management procedures to facilitate the coordination of external aid; and
(iii) improvement of the cost recovery mechanisms.
2.33   The IDA credit will finance: (i) the identification of management problem areas, the development
of actions derived from problem identification and the decentralization process of the sector management
with emphasis on personnel management - development of the personnel database, and procedures manual
and training of central and provincial staff - and finance management - improvement of public budget
management and external aid management, development of the sectoral financial information system,
consolidation of the cost recovery mechanisms and development and installation of an accounting plan
adapted for the health units; (ii) computers and other equipment and furniture for central and provincial
levels needed to improve personnel and finance management; (iii) minor civil works -- repairs and



-27-
facilities upgrading -- at the provincial health directorates; (iv) partial needs for office supplies; and (v)
partial needs for supervision and support visits by central and provincial staff, complemented by visits and
in-service training provided through the Human Resources Development component.
2.34   Other donors supporting management improvement at the provincial level include DANIDA,
FINIDA, Italian Cooperation, Netherlands, NORAD, SDC, UNICEF and USAID.
2.35   Information System Improvement (US$ 2.5 million. IDA: US$ 1.3 million). This component
supports the further development and expanded coverage of the Health Information System (HIS), the core
of which has already been developed by the MOH and is presently being implemented for levels I and
11 of the health care system. Under the Program, support will be provided for HIS expansion to include
definition, collection, processing and use of basic epidemiologic and basic hospital efficiency and services
data for Levels III and IV of the health services system. The Program will support the continuation and
expansion of internal management information system improvements initiated under the IDA-financed
Health and Nutrition Project.
2.36   The IDA credit will finance: (i) the development, pilot testing and installation of the information
system for provincial hospitals and strengthening of data collection and processing at levels I and II of
the health system; (ii) computer equipment and furniture for provincial hospitals' statistics units and for
installation of a pilot data transfer system using a computer networking system linking the provincial and
central level; and (iii) goods and services for the running of the health information system over a period
of two and half years.
2.37   DANIDA and USAID also support strengthening of the Health Information System.
2.38   Program Management (US$ 47.6 million. IDA: US$ 6.9 million). A number of activities, such
as those implemented through national programs, are administered at the Ministry (central) level. This
component accounts for the general recurrent costs, including salaries and goods and services incurred
by the central agencies and directorates that administer these programs. The Program will provide
assistance to enable the MOH to improve the administration of investment projects and maintenance
coordination. The component will also assist in the development of policies to enable the MOH to
respond to the many challenges being introduced by peace, skilled manpower shortages, massive
migrations, etc. In addition to funding studies and preliminary policy implementation in areas of
institutional organization, personnel administration, AIDS, in-patient nutrition, hospital waste disposal and
family planning, among others, the Program will also finance monitoring and evaluation as well as the
preparation of new sector projects.
2.39   The IDA credit will finance: (i) technical assistance to strengthen the national directorates'
capacity to implement Program activities; (ii) 10 provincial coordinators, 3 engineers, 12 field engineers,
and 15 basic level technicians for the Provincial Planning Units (NEPs); (iii) vehicles, other equipment
and furniture to equip the NEPs; (iv) part of GACOPI's and the NEPs' operating costs; (v) studies to
support policy development at the MOH; (vi) technical assistance to coordinate all monitoring and
evaluation activities in the sector and to assist in the development of technical capacity within the MOH
to monitor main activities in the sector program and to provide timely evaluation reports for internal use
as well as by donors; and (vii) preparation of tender documents and for activities to be undertaken in
future projects of the MOH.



-28-
2.40   The Program will also finance the recurrent costs of all central operations. The bulk of these
expenditures will be financed by the GOM through the national budget.
2.41   Other donors supporting this component include AFDB, Italian Cooperation, OPEC Fund,
UNICEF and USAID.
Domain C. Human Resources Development (lS$ 35.9 million. IDA: US$ 21.2 million)
2.42   The Ministry of Health's plans for the rehabilitation and further development of Mozambique's
health services recognize that human resources in the sector are a key limiting factor in that development.
The ten-year Health Manpower Development Plan (HMDP) for 1992 through 2002, prepared with support
from the IDA-financed Health and Nutrition Project, was approved in March 1992. The HMDP is based,
in part, on national level health development plans, but primarily on the analysis of current staff
composition and training capacity and on MOH projections through 2002 of funds expected to be available
for MOH staff salaries. HMDP implementation is periodically reviewed in light of growth of the MOH
budget, progress in strengthening of MOH training capacity, MOH management of Human Resources
Development, and the implications of peace and of the resultant increased territorial access and major
population movements. (paras. 1.43 to 1.48)
2.43  In the domain of Human Resources Development, the Program aims to: (i) assist the MOH in the
implementation of the Health Manpower Development Plan; (ii) strengthen the national capacity for health
personnel training; (iii) promote continuing education of health workers; and (iv) provide key support to
the Faculty of Medicine.
2.44   Health Manpower Development Plan Implementation (US$ 17.2 million. IDA: US$ 13.6 million).
This component will assist in the further implementation of the manpower plan by financing a time-slice
of the total activities foreseen in the plan. The MOH training experience, including experience under the
Health and Nutrition Project, indicates a likelihood that training delays will slow execution so that three
years of the plan's courses will be completed during the five years of the Program. Therefore, the
Program over five years will finance those courses which the plan schedules to begin during the years
1996, 1997 and 1998 and to be completed before the end of the year 2000 (a total of 48 courses); each
such course would be financed throughout its entire duration by the credit. In the case that annual
evaluation shows that training system improvements have led to more rapid implementation such as that
foreseen in the original manpower plan and therefore to more rapid expenditure of the Program's training
funds, it is anticipated that other financing will be available to continue the more rapid implementation.
2.45   The IDA credit will finance: (i) the total costs of implementing 48 courses; and (ii) scholarships
covering students' partial subsistence, course-related travel and rural practice activities.
2.46   The main donors involved in this component include AFDB, DANIDA, FINIDA, EU, Italian
Cooperation, SDC, UNICEF and WHO.
2.47   Training Capacity Improvement (US$ 12.3 million, IDA: US$ 4.7 million). This component will
improve the capacity of the MOH to train its staff by financing: (i) upgrading and refurbishing of training
institutions; and (ii) improving the delivery of training itself.
2.48   The IDA credit will finance: (i) civil works for rehabilitation and extension of the training
institutes in Maputo, Beira and Nampula and of training centers in Chicumbane and Chicuque;



-29-
(ii) furniture for the rehabilitated facilities; (iii) training materials and equipment for all health training
institutes and centers; and (iv) motor vehicles. The credit's contribution complements the civil works
activities for rehabilitation of the Training Institutes for mid-level healthworkers in Maputo, Beira and
Nampula and construction/extension of basic training facilities in Cuamba and Lichinga, partially
implemented under the Health and Nutrition Project.
2.49   DANIDA, FINIDA, SDC, EU, WFP and UNICEF are the other donors supporting the MHS
through this component.
2.50   In-service Training Improvement (US$ 2.6 million. IDA: US$ 2.3). This component will support
improvements in and rationalization of continuing education activities to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of MOH health services and their planning, management and support. The MOH, in
collaboration with donors, will work to rationalize in-service training, eliminate undesirable overlaps and
duplications, focus training on priority needs for provision of basic packages of health services, increase
and monitor training effectiveness, and reduce the training-related losses of service time observed in
recent years.
2.51   The IDA credit will finance: (i) the costs of in-service training courses in the MOH/WHO
Regional Center for Health Development (CRDS) in Maputo; (ii) technical assistance in continuing
education development and management; (iii) the costs of in-service training activities at the provincial
level (after selection among province-submitted proposals on the basis of relevance to priorities, likely
impact, and cost).
2.52 All other donors supporting the MHS through General Training Operations (e.g., UNICEF, WHO,
DANIDA, FINIDA, NORAD, SDC, STC, UNFPA, USAID, UNDP) will continue to finance continuing
education activities. The MOH has initiated discussions of multi-donor pooling of funds to support such
activities, in keeping with the component's objectives.
2.53   Faculty of Medicine Sup2ort (US$ 0.6 million, IDA: US$ 0.6 million). The objective of this
component is to improve the quality of medical training provided at the university, particularly in
rural/community medicine. The Program will assist in the following areas: (i) training and practical
experience for medical students in rural facilities and communities, in cooperation with NGOs;
(ii) provision of texts and reference materials for medical students (including basic reference manuals to
be retained by them after graduation); and (iii) transportation for students engaged in community medicine
training.
2.54   The IDA credit will finance: (i) the cost of textbooks and reference materials for faculty,
professionals and students; (ii) the cost of setting up, running and supervising rural internships including
four staff-months of local technical assistance for an external evaluation of this activity; and (iii) a mini-
bus. Because the Faculty of Medicine is part of the University and funded mainly by and through the
Ministry of Education, no other funding sources are shown under the MOH Program.
2.55   General Training Operations (US$ 3.1 million) This component, supported by the EU, UNICEF,
WHO, NORAD, SDC, UNFPA, USAID, UNDP, DANIDA, FINIDA and the Italian Cooperation
finances general investment and recurrent expenditures in human resources development, outside those
outlined in the components above.
2.56   In addition to taxes on all items financed by IDA, in the Human Resources Development domain,
government will finance salaries of the students in training.



-30-
C. Program Costs
2.57   The total base cost of the Program is
approximately US$ 347.9 million, US$ 355.7
million including contingencies'3.   These
figures are based on the part of the Program          rig 3: Pr-ogumbpodftu by cad Camgmy
for which there is agreed funding from
domestic and foreign sources.  The IDA        100
credit amounts to US$ 98.7 million.  The      80
Program will be revised annually, to account  so
for changes in availability of financing,   i ooLJ
priorities  and  implementation/ outcomes     40
performnance.                                 20
D. Program Financing
Financing Plan
2.58   The Program is designed to finance a five year time-slice of the MHS. Financing for the first
three years of the program is based on firmer commitments, whereas the last two years have only partial
funding to-date.  Alternative scenarios of government commitment to the health sector have been
developed. Under the base case scenario, the government will contribute approximately US$ 116 million,
of which some US$ 98 million in recurrent expenditures. This total corresponds to an average of about
US$ 1.0 per capita annually and is in line with a 4 percent annual increase in the recurrent budget
between 1996-2000, following a sharp initial increase of over 40 percent for 1995. (para. 1.14) An
increasing share of the local contribution will come from cost recovery, particularly in pharmaceuticals.
(Box 2) All major donors operating in the sector, '4in association, have committed to finance, on a parallel
basis, an estimated sum of about US$ 239 million (IDA included) (Annex-2.1A). The amount of IDA
financing, US$ 98.7 million, is based on the government's estimate of sustainable financial commitment.
If the Program is implemented at an accelerated rate, donor support including IDA would be reassessed
with the objective of maintaining commensurate support. If, on the other hand, the Program experiences
implementation delays or if co-funding or counterpart funding is not forthcoming, the Program may be
scaled down at the mid-term review.
' Donors and Govermnent's figures are only available inclusive of contingencies.
'4 Including AFDB, Denmnark/DANIDA, EU, Finland/FINIDA, IDA, Italy/lItalian Cooperation, The Netherlands,
Norway/NORAD, Switzerland/SDC, UNICEF, USAID, WFP and WHO.



-31-
Table 2: Financing Plan (US$ million, including taxes and contingencies) 1996-2000
IDA          Other        Government         Total
Donors             of
Mozambique
Health Services Delivery                             62.8           118.2             75.3       256.2
Health Facilities Development                        16.6            57.9              7.1         81.6
Rural Health Development Fund                        15.2             7.1              8.5        30.7
Laboratories Strengthening                            2.6                                          2.6
Pharmaceuticals & Medical Supplies Program           19.6             6.0              0.1        25.7
National Maintenance Program                          2.7             1.5              0.2         4.5
Institutional Feeding Program                                        10.1              0.3         10.4
General Province Operations                           6.1            35.5             59.2        100.8
Institutional Support                                14.8            10.2             38.6        63.6
Supply System Improvement                             2.7             0.5              0.3          3.5
Provincial Health Management Improvement              3.0             5.6              0.3          8.9
Information System Improvement                        1.3             1.1              0.1         2.5
Program Management                                    6.9             2.8             37.8        47.6
Human Resources Development                          21.2            12.1              2.6        35.9
H.M.D. Plan Implementation (Formal Training)         13.6             2.7              0.9         17.2
Trainarag Capacity Improvement                        4.7             6.5              1.1         12.3
In-Service Training Improvement                       2.3             0.1              0.2          2.6
Faculty of Medicine Support                           0.6                                          0.6
General Training Operations                                           2.9              0.3         3.1
Total                                                98.7           140.5            116.5       355.7
2.59    During the life of the Program, donors will progressively shift the focus of finance from specific
projects to the Program, with a parallel shift from appraising individual activities to financing shares of
the whole sector strategy.
Program Sustairnability
2.60    The MOH  explicitly designed the National Health Sector Strategy and Program  to deliver a
cost-effective package of basic health services. The eventual sustainability of services is enhanced by
emphasis on basic rural facilities, with rural hospitals for referral services, appropriate training and use
of mid-level health personnel, redeployment of existing resources, provision of generic essential
medicines, community participation and cost recovery, and strengthened management support and
supervision. Efficiency will also be enhanced by greater budget flexibility introduced by the integrated
sector approach. However, in spite of the government's concurrent commitment to increasing levels of
funding for the sector, foreseeable economic growth in Mozambique indicates that external support will



-32-
be necessary to sustain health and other services for some years after the present time slice financed by
the IDA credit. (paras. 1.12 and 1.13)
2.61   IDA financing of incremental recurrent costs amounts to about US$ 8.5 million (excluding
pharmaceuticals) and represent less than 5 percent of the Programs's total recurrent expenditures
(excluding pharmaceuticals). If we include pharmaceuticals, the share of IDA's recurrent expenditures
financing is still only about 10 percent of the total. The share of IDA in recurrent expenditures declines
over the life of the Program as the government takes on an increasing share of financing of the Program.
(paras. 1.14 and 2.58) IDA financing of recurrent expenditures concentrates on medical supplies, fuel,
maintenance inputs and laboratory reagents (as well as pharmaceuticals).  IDA funds are not being
allocated for salaries of MOH staff. (Annex-2.IA and 2.2B)



-33-
III. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
Program Management Structure
3.1    The MOH, through its line agencies, will have overall responsibility for management of all
Program activities. The Director of the National Directorate of Planning and Cooperation (DNPC), who
reports directly to the Minister of Health, will be responsible for coordinating and supervising Program
implementation. The Director will liaise among the various implementation institutions, the Ministry of
Finance, the Bank of Mozambique and donors. Assisted by a Program Coordinator, (s)he will meet
regularly with implementing agencies and will monitor progress, keep program accounts, and prepare
reports, as required and agreed by the government and donors. To facilitate program coordination and
monitoring, the Minister's Advisory Board (Conselho Consultivo do Ministro), comprising the Minister,
the Vice Minister and heads of all national Directorates and Departments, will meet once every three
months to review progress in all Program activities and to resolve any issues impeding achievement of
Program objectives. The internal organization of the MOH is presented in Annex-1.1.
3.2    As program-supported investments (particularly construction and rehabilitation as in the case of
the Rural Health Development Fund) will be highly concentrated in rural areas and spread over several
locations in each province, each Provincial Directorate of Health should have technical capacity to take
responsibility for management of rehabilitation activities. Therefore, Provincial Construction and
Maintenance Units, which are part of the Provincial Directorate of Health/NEPs, will gradually be
strengthened in all 10 provinces and Maputo City. These Units, which will be responsible for the
day-to-day management and monitoring of construction activities, particularly those related to the Rural
Health Development Fund, will report to the Provincial Director of Health. GACOPI will be in charge
of preparation of norms and standards for the construction and maintenance of infrastructures and of
approval of designs and large contracts.
3.3    GACOPI is the technical unit of the DNPC, in the Central MOH, which is responsible for
administering and supervising all health sector investments involving construction or rehabilitation of
equipment and health-related infrastructures, including the preparation of the sector's investment plans.
GACOPI will also be responsible for the technical coordination of the work of the Provincial Maintenance
and Construction Units to be strengthened to support the Program. For the purposes of the IDA credit,
GACOPI will manage financial accounts and procurement processes (for large civil works, and central
purchases of goods and services). The emphasis is on shifting Program management to lower tiers of
government and toward greater accountability for implementation processes.  The participation of
communities in the design (through systematic client consultation--SCC--methodologies) and execution of
health facilities construction and in other aspects of health services, which is integral to this Program, is
expected to yield greater efficiency and accountability in the provision of services as well as a greater
sense of ownership of the Program. (para. 2.9)
Implementation Agencies
3.4    The DNPC, directly responsible for overall coordination of the Institutional Support components
of the Program, also will be directly responsible for the components for: (a) Provincial Health
Management Improvement; (b) Health Information System Improvement; and (c) Program Management.



-34-
The Supply System Improvement component will be a responsibility of the Supplies Directorate, and the
Financial Management Improvement components will be a responsibility of the Administration and
Finance Directorate.
3.5    The National Directorate of Health will be directly responsible, at the central level, for
implementation of the following components: (a) Health Facilities Development; (b) Rural Health
Development Fund; (c) Laboratories Strengthening; (d) Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies Program
Stabilization; (e) Maintenance Program Support; (f) Institutional Feeding Program; and (g) Provincial
Operations.
3.6    The HDF will be set up for the (re)construction of first level facilities and small projects directly
linked to health, targeted to the poorest, least-served, mainly rural areas, as determined by the MOH,
based on Bank-agreed criteria. In order to prevent the construction of first level facilities which are not
integrated in a network of services, new first level facilities will only be built within under-served parts
of the catchment areas of a well functioning second level facility for which health staff is available. The
Fund will finance small-scale, rapidly disbursing projects to be designed with the assistance of a
participatory planning process. The local community which will benefit from the new facility will be
involved in its design, its construction and its maintenance. It is foreseen that a health worker, who is part
of the personnel structure of the MOH, will be posted in the locality to guide the process of consulting
the community on the facility and on services to be delivered. The work of the health worker can
spearhead the process of increasing community organization and capacity, which are essential for broader
development. Community participation in the construction of a health facility requires the community to
provide labor, to be partially remunerated. This is seen less as a matter of cost containment than as a way
to increase community ownership of the health facility. Moreover, the choice of labor-intensive
technologies will create employment and income (in both cash and food), thereby increasing food security
for the population and facilitating resettlement and re-integration. The projects will be implemented
through MOH-community-NGO partnerships. The Fund will be initially administered by the World Food
Program (WFP), though responsibilities for location determination, construction supervision and
maintenance will be shared between provincial and central health administrations. However, two provinces
will be pilots for direct provincial administration of the fund, immediately upon credit effectiveness. Later
in Program implementation, fund administration would be transferred to provincial governments with
proven capacity. It is presumed that the transfer of such administrative functions to the provinces will
be completed by the end of the third year of the Program life. (Para. 2.9)
3.7    The Directorate of Human Resources will be directly responsible for implementation of the
following components: (a) Health Manpower Development Plan Implementation; (b) Training Capacity
Improvement; and (c) Continuing Education. The component in support of the Faculty of Medicine will
be a responsibility of the Faculty of Medicine at the Eduardo Mondlane University.
3.8    All the formal training of health staff included in the Program will be carried out at the Health
Training Institutes and Health Training Centers, of which there is at least one in every province, under
contracts between the individual training institution and the Directorate of Human Resources. Other
general training, such as accounting, finance and computer operations, will be carried out by institutions
outside the Ministry.



-35-
Program Implementation Capacity
3.9    The MOH has overcome the implementation problems encountered in the first years of Health I.
The MOH is now prepared to implement successfully the proposed, much larger Program, thanks to
further actions based on lessons learned .n Health I, reduction in the size of the originally proposed credit,
reductions in the proposed Program's demands on MOH implementation capacity, much more thorough
preparation of components, a better-defined national health strategy and an improved implementation
framework, and greatly strengthened donor coordination and consensus in support of health sector
recovery. A significant proportion of the proposed credit and of the overall program will finance capacity
expansion and building, including the capacity to implement projects and to continue to rationalize and
focus the acquisition and use of donor resources in support of the health sector recovery program.
3.10   Application of Lessons Learned in Health I in the Design of the Proposed Program. Design of
the proposed Program has benefitted greatly from the application of lessons learned in Health I. At the
time of Health I's effectiveness, most of its components were at early stages of preparation, few terms
of reference for consultants and few procurement documents had been prepared, and much of the costing
was still tentative. The first project's delays in tendering have been countered by extensive planning and
preparation of tender documents during Program preparation. (Boxes 3 and 4). Recognition of the
importance of reliable and direct communication with the Bank led to the establishment of All-in-I
communications with the MOH, which are now being upgraded and expanded. Flexibility to reallocate
funds during annual reviews according to implementation performance will also help to improve
implementation and permit greater responsiveness to borrower needs and to the changing national
situation.
3.11  Some Features of the Proposed Program Enhancing MOH Implementation. Features incorporated
in the proposed Program to help assure effective implementation in specific areas can be summarized as
follows:
Civil Works: The Rural Health Development Fund is expected to be administered by the WFP
initially, in several provinces, with administrative responsibility shifting to the provincial level
MOH offices as their administrative capacity is sufficiently strengthened; actual execution of the
component will be carried out by NGOs. Rural hospitals, training institutes and warehouses will
all be procured out in the private sector, and complete tender documents have been prepared.
Additionally, a management contractor will be hired by GACOPI to assist with all civil works
implementation. These features will help avoid two major bottlenecks encountered in Health I,
weak administrative and civil works implementation capacity and slow preparation of tender
documents.
Equipment: Tender documents have been prepared, including most lists of equipment (a major
bottleneck early in Health I). A procurement agency will be hired to procure medical equipment.
Goods and Services:  Tender documents have been prepared.  The government-owned
procurement agency (MEDIMOC) has an excellent track record in procurement of
pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents and medical supplies.



-36-
*      Trainin2: Tender documents have been prepared. The number of courses scheduled to be carried
out is about half of the number IDA was requested to finance on the basis of the original
projections of the Health Manpower Development Plan, having been reduced greatly during
Program preparation on the basis of experience in the first years of implementation of the plan.
*      Consultants: Tender documents have been
prepared, including TORs reflecting the aim  Box 6: Integrated Program Implementation
of the MOH to use consultancies to build    The integrated sector program  ensures that
capacity in both the short run and in the    complementarities of activities are not missed and
long term, with emphasis on training and on    that  synergistic  benefits  of joint  donor
transfer of skills to local staff. A pooling    implementation are captured. In order to reduce
agreement for the selection and use of    suspicions of Bank control over the sector, which
technical  assistance   will  improve       are nearly inevitable given the size of Bank
coordination in technical assistance use, as    participation in the sector, the team preparing the
well as helping to reduce both technical    program strongly supported the leadership of the
assistance costs and the administrative     Swiss Development Cooperation.  In order to
burden technical assistance management and    improve the efficiency of Program supervision, the
coordination impose on the MOH.  The    MOH and the Bank supported the idea of having
UNDP has been contracted by the MOH to    activity leaders under the general coordination of
administer the pooling arrangement.    the MOH and the lead donor. In this modality of
administer the pooling arrangement.         donor cooperation,  each  donor would  be
- Moio   n   ueriin   TeMH responsible for supporting the MOH  in its
Monitoring and Suvervision: The MOH        monitoring and supervision of a broad line of
and donors, in a donor coordination meeting  activity, for the benefit of the MOH and all donors.
held during the appraisal mission, agreed    It is understood that this is an interim situation, and
that for  specific  groups  of program      that all  program  monitoring and supervision
components or sub-components, a single    activities will gradually be taken over by the MOH.
donor, working with the MOH, would take
the lead in monitoring and supervision, with    In order to fully benefit from joint implementation,
the other donors delegating their monitoring  common implementation procedures were and are
and supervision functions to that donor.    still being sought, most immediately in the form of
The  MOH   would  gradually  assume    pooling agreements in major activities.  These
increasing responsibility for monitoring and  agreements have been developed for technical
assistance and for pharmaceuticals and medical
greporting.  Sucthe manor arrang nt woulde    supplies, and agreements are being discussed for
greatly reduce the major constant burden    training and primary level facilities construction.
imposed on MOH  staff and officials by      Supervisory activities such as auditing of accounts
frequent, repetitive missions by the sector's    are also being fully integrated by some donors.
many donors. That burden will be further
reduced by arrangements which will concentrate donor missions in two review periods each year.
B. Program Monitoring and Reporting
3.12   As the implementation of the Integrated Health Sector Program gradually shifts from a project
basis to an approach centered along activity lines, supervision processes will also be increasingly
undertaken along activity groupings. Supervision missions and supervision instruments (e.g., financial
audits) as well as procurement and disbursement practices and other common procedures will be organized
so as to minimize their demand on scarce implementation capacity in the MOH. In supervision and



-37-
monitoring the Program will benefit from the largely untapped potential for inter-donor delegation of
supervision of activities. This will permit a substantial reduction in the number of missions visiting the
sector and will help change the focus of assistance and government planning towards sector strategies
rather than segmented projects.
3.13   Monitoring procedures and Program reports will focus on progress in and impacts of the
implementation of the MOH's Program, measured against specific targets and actions set in the five year
rolling plans and detailed implementation programs, all of which will be reviewed and revised each year
throughout the Program life. Monitoring procedures and Program reports are designed to meet MOH
needs for information for decision-making, to fulfill the reporting requirements of donors, and to ensure
that the plans, programs and actions are in accordance with the MOH's strategy for the health sector.
General progress of the program will be measured against a list of key indicators (Annex-3.3). This
limited list of indicators focusses on some critical inputs (e.g., share of health sector in public budget,
disbursement level, number of facilities built), outputs (e.g., vaccination coverage, drugs availability),
and outcomes (infant, child and maternal mortality rates, user satisfaction) of the MOH program. Areas
of special focus, in keeping with the MOH's strategy, will include progress in assuring equitable
population access to health services providing at least a basic package of health services (with adequate
quality), coverage indicators, compliance of staffing with national norms, availability and effectiveness
of key inputs and support for health services, and progress in implementation of policies and programs
in areas such as infrastructure rehabilitation, human resources, and institutional strengthening.
3.14   Each year, the MOH will update the five year rolling plan and will prepare the investment and
recurrent budgets for the next year. These will be discussed with donors. The rolling plan and program
would identify and prioritize, in the context of the MOH health strategy, the areas for which donor
support is solicited. During the annual national consultations, IDA and cooperating donors would discuss
the proposed plans and investments in light of criteria that include cost-effectiveness, institutional capacity
(at central, provincial and district levels), cost recovery potential, and effectiveness, affordability,
accessibility and equity of services. An assessment of the effects of decentralizing authority during the
preceding year, and plans for the upcoming year, will also be on the agenda. In calendar year 1998, a
midterm review of the Program will be carried out .
3.15   The Ministry's departments and all donors to the sector will participate in annual review
workshops, to take place in April following the national consultations. During these workshops, Program
progress will be monitored and the Ministry will present a revised program of actions. Prior to the annual
workshop with donors the MOH will present a report on implementation and impact of the Health Sector
Program. The report will be distributed to the donors no later than March 1 of each year. The report will
discuss, inter alia, the progress in meeting the agreed output targets, a summary of the beneficiary
assessments and other external reviews of the previous year, with a summary of actions proposed and
taken to correct any problems found. Progress in the different components, issues hindering success, and
proposed solutions will be discussed and decided upon in the workshop. At the end of each workshop,
donor commitments to the various program components will be expressed and IDA funds may be
reallocated to finance gaps in identified priority areas.
3.16   The MOH will prepare semi-annual reports which will tabulate and graphically display physical
and financial progress during the previous semester and accumulated progress against agreed targets in
the Implementation Plan and Health Services Delivery Action Plan and highlight problems, with
recommendations for solving them. These reports will be distributed to donors within one month of the
end of each semester and will be the subject of a meeting of the Minister of Health's Advisory Council.



-38-
Minutes of the meeting will be attached to the next such report, with comments indicating actions taken
since the last meeting. A yearly report will summarize the status of each component and the degree of
compliance with donor covenants and agreements. The format of these reports will be designed to fulfill
the MOH needs for summary information for decision making and will also be adapted to satisfy IDA's
and other donors' reporting requirements.
3.17   Within six months of the closing of the IDA credit, the MOH will prepare a final report on the
implementation of the Program.
C. Procurement
3.18   Procurement under the project would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January, 1995 with emphasis on community
participation. The MOH, has prepared a draft procurement/disbursement plan for Bank review. This plan
will be the basis for project implementation and monitoring by GACOPI. The plan will be reviewed and
updated at least three months prior to the start of each Program year. GACOPI has agreed to use a
computerized project management software which includes procurement planning.
3.19   The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procurements. Bidding documents agreed upon by the Bank and used in Health I will be
used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurements under this Program. The Bank's Standard
Forms of Contract for Consultant Services will also be used where applicable. One ICB contract
document and one NCB document for procurement of civil works and goods have been reviewed and
approved by IDA during appraisal and negotiations. All of the above document formats are available in
computerized format.
3.20   Civil Works' total cost is US$ 27.6 million. All contracts for construction and rehabilitation of
hospitals, warehouses and training centers valued at US$ 500,000 or greater (US$ 15.8 million or 57.3
percent of total civil works value) shall be procured through ICB. Qualified local contractors participating
in ICB would be given a 7.5 percent margin of preference in accordance with the Guidelines. Similar
contracts valued at less than US$ 500,000 up to an aggregate total of US$ 600,000 will be procured using
NCB procedures approved in the Health I Project. Construction and rehabilitation of about 240 scattered
health posts plus 600 staff houses and 240 latrines and water wells aggregating to US$ 11.2 million, with
a maximum value of US$ 60,000 per contract, would be administered through the Rural Health
Development Fund with community participation in sub-project implementation. The MOH will contract
with NGOs or small local firms directly on the basis of standard unit prices fixed by the MOH, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. An estimated 80 percent of the cost of each health unit
will be financed by IDA and 20 percent by the World Food Program through a food for work scheme.
This approach will promote the utilization of local know-how and products and promote effective local
participation; these contracts are small in value and scattered in nature and would not attract established
national contractors. (paras. 2.9 and 3.6)



-39-
3.21    Goods"5 total cost is estimated at US$ 45.8 million, including health equipment kits, hospital
furniture equipment and supplies, training center furniture and supplies, warehouse stacking and
operational equipment, transport vehicles, pharmaceuticals, laboratory reagents and medical supplies,
textbooks and learning materials, and office furniture, equipment, technology supplies and fuel.
Procurements will be bulked where feasible and packages valued at US$ 100,000 or more will be
procured using ICB (US$ 35.0 million or 76.4 percent). Procurements valued at less than US$ 100,000
up to an aggregate total of US$ 2.4 million will be procured using NCB procedures agreed to in the
Health I Project. Implementation of the program would require the purchase of relatively small, primarily
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million, including taxes and contingencies)
Category                        ICB       NCB Shooping    Consult.        Other NFA         Total
Training
Civil Works                     15.8        0.6                            11.2  63.7        91.3
(14.1)      (0.6)                          (10.0)           (24.7)
Investment Goods/i              15.9        0.6      0.1                         14.9        31.5
(15.7)      (0.6)    (0.1)                                  (16.4)
Pharmaceuticals/2               19.1                                              6.0        25.1
(19.1)                                                      (19.1)
Operat.Costs/Consumables/3                  1.8      2.4                    5.9 104.1       114.2
(1.0)    (2.4)                  (5.0)            (8.4)
Consultant's Services                                          13.7              22.8        36.5
(13.7)                       (13.7)
Training                                                       16.5               3.8       20.3
(16.5)                       (16.5)
Salaries                                                                         36.6       36.6
Total                           50.8        3.0      2.5       30.2        17.1 251.9      355.7
IDA                           (48.9)      (2.2)    (2.5)      (30.2)      (15.0)           (98.7)
% of IDA Total                 71.4        3.2       3.6                   21.9           100.00
(Excluding Cons.
Services & Trng.)
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
NFA: Not Financed by the Association (IDA)
N.B. Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA
/1 Equipment, furniture and vehicles
12 Includes drugs, medical supplies and laboratory reagents
/3 Includes travel, fuel, office supplies, maintenance supplies, and some medical kits
15 For procurement planning purposes, investment goods and operating costs/consumables have been aggregated into a "goods'
category.



-40-
consumable items, by MOH local offices, provincial authorities and communities around the Country,
which would be difficult and impractical to package and procure following NCB procedures. Thus, such
items costing less than US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 2.5 million may
be procured through prudent local shopping on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three local
reputable suppliers. Textbooks, periodicals, spare parts, operating expenditures, minor off-the-shelf items,
pharmaceuticals and other proprietary items costing less than US$ 20,000 equivalent per contract up to
an aggregate of US$ 5.9 million equivalent, may be procured directly from manufacturers and authorized
local distributors. These purchases will be largely made by provincial governments through Simplified
Disbursement Procedures which provide for advancing of funds from the special account for a period of
up to three months to implement a clearly defined work program (paras. 3.28 and 3.30).
3.22   Consultants' services to an aggregate total of US$ 13.7 million for civil works Programn
supervision, human resources development, financial management, information systems development,
procurement agents and other supervision and administration functions will be selected in accordance the
Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants dated August, 1981. Terms of reference for all major
consultancy contracts have been reviewed and approved by IDA during appraisal and negotiations.
3.23   Training costs financed by IDA aggregating to US$ 16.5 million include fees for courses and
workshops for Program-related subjects. Recurrent costs for such items as travel tickets related to
training activities are included in this category along with fellowship allowances consisting of room, board
and living expense stipends to national students resident and non-resident at the MOH training centers for
long-term multi-year programs. All training costs will be based upon reasonable established rates
acceptable to IDA.
3.24   IDA Review  All contracts for construction of civil works and purchase of goods procured
following ICB procedures would be subject to prior review. The use of the Bank's SBD would
considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review would primarily focus on invitation to bid,
bid data sheet, contract data, technical specifications, bill of quantities/schedule of requirements and other
contract-specific items. The first contracts for goods and works procured following NCB procedures
would also be subject to prior review by IDA. The provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior IDA review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts with firms estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 and with individuals estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 each. However, this exception to
prior IDA review shall not apply to terms of reference, to single source selection of firms, to assignments
of a critical nature as reasonably determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to US$ 100,000 or above for contracts with firms and US$ 50,000 or above for contracts with
individuals. All procurements which are not subject to prior review by IDA however will be subject to
random post review by IDA during scheduled supervision missions. The MOH is required to maintain
all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA. The MOH will submit to IDA
periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement in progress and completed as part of the
normal project reporting exercise.
3.25   All imports valued at US$ 5,000 or more each and procured under this Program shall be subject
to preshipment inspection by the government's designated agents for quantity and for quality. If the
procurement was not made through ICB, preshipment inspection shall also include price verification.



-41-
3.26   All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual
basis. Modifications may be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of procurements
implemented. Amendments to the Credit agreement may be prepared as necessary.
D. Disbursement
Table 4: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit (US$ million)
Category                       IDA Amount         % of Expenditure
(US$mnillion)
Civil Works:                                       100% of foreign
Rural Health Dev. Fund         8.6         and  90% of local
Other                         12.4            expenditures
Investment Goods:                                  100% of foreign
15.5        expenditures, 100%
of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
70% of other local
expenditures
Pharmaceuticals and Medical          18.0          100% of foreign
Supplies                                           expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
Operating Costs/Consumables          7.9          90% in years 1 and
2 and 70%
thereafter
Consultants' Services                12.9               100%
Training                             15.6               100%
Unallocated                          7.8
Total                                98.7
3.27   Based on the standard disbursement profile for Mozambique adjusted for the the sector's
strengthened implementation capacity, it can be estimated that the IDA credit will be disbursed over a
period of 5 years, from 1996-2000, with procurement and disbursements completed by December 31,
2000 (completion date) and June 30, 2001 (closing date) respectively. The proposed allocation of the
credit is shown in Table 4. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully document-
ed, except for contracts not subject to prior review by IDA. For the rest disbursements will be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by central MOH. Supporting documentation will be



-42-
retained by Program executing agencies and will be available for review as requested by World Bank
supervision missions and Program auditors.
3.28   For some of the activities to be implemented by the provincial government or their agencies, such
as those included in the Rural Health Development Fund, Simplified Disbursement Procedures will be
acceptable to IDA. This procedure will provide for advancing funds from the special account for a period
of up to three months, six months in the case of the case of the WFP agreement (para. 3.30 (a)) to
implement a clearly defined work program. Further advances will be dependent upon satisfactory work
program performance as measured by the physical implementation of the work program.
Table 5: Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit (US$ million)
FY96       FY97        FY98        FY99  F|Y00            FY01
Annual            7.1        17.4        23.0        25.0       19.2        7.0
Cumulative        7.1        24.5        47.5        72.5       91.7        98.7
Cumulative %     7.2%       24.8%       48.1%       73.5 %     92.9%       100%
Note: Disbursement schedule differs from regional standard profile for the sector due to nature of goods being
procured and introduction of unique implementation procedures.
E. Program Accounts and Audits
Program Accounts
3.29   Program accounts will be established and maintained by the MOH. A Special Account will be
opened for this credit and maintained with a conrnercial bank, acceptable to IDA. The maximum balance
in the Special Account will be US$ 6.5 million, which will cover about 4 months of expenditures.
3.30   Satisfactory accounting systems have been maintained by the Program management unit (GACOPI)
under the First Health Project. IDA funds will flow into the Program in three different ways, to be
accounted for as follows:
(a)    Civil Works under the Rural Health Development Fund: Under this component,
sub-projects costing not more than US$ 60,000 each will be financed for Provincial
Directorates of Health (PDH) under the implementation of a non-governmental
organization (NGO) approved by the PDH and WFP. At the end of each semester, WFP
will present to GACOPI an account, supported by invoices of the expenditures. GACOPI
will request IDA to effect a subsequent disbursement in accordance with the WFP
activities planned for the following semester and, in turn, present to IDA (semi-annually)
a replenishment request under the SOE procedure. Over the life of the Program, GACOPI
is expected to finance on average US$ 1 million in civil works per province (i.e. about
US$ 10 million for the whole country) by this method.



-43-
(b)    Operating Costs and Consumables under General Province Operations (GPOs): IDA is
expected to provide financing of about US$ 100,000 per province per year, to support the
general operations of the Provincial and District Directorates of Health following the
Simplified Disbursement Procedures described in para. 3.28 above. Although these funds
will support the general health budget, they will not be provided as an integral part of the
government budget, but parallel to it. This is to prevent them from suffering the usual
fate of government budgetary allocations, which get lost to the recipient if they are not
spent by the end of the year.
(c)    All other funds: will be accounted for by GACOPI in the same way as the IDA funds
used in the First Health Project.
Audits
3.31   The audit of a Program raises the issue of whether the external auditor should audit all the
expenditures of the Ministry - an unusually expensive and mammoth task for an international accounting
firm - or audit only the use of IDA funds. In this Program it has been decided to limit the external audit
by an independent auditor to the use of IDA funds.
3.32   The Borrower will employ an independent auditor acceptable to IDA to audit the use of all IDA
funds applied in financing the Program. The only unusual aspect of the audit concerns the IDA funds to
be disbursed for GPOs. These particular funds are audited by the Ministry of Finance whose audit is
independently checked annually by auditors of the SDC. To avoid excessive duplication, the SDC has
agreed to coordinate the annual audits of GPOs.
3.33   The independent auditor to be employed by the Borrower to audit the use of IDA funding for the
Program will be required to express a separate opinion in the same audit report on: (a) the Program
accounts, showing all IDA financing for the Program; (b) the Special Account operated by the Program;
and (c) the Statements of Expenditures, including those used for civil works under the Rural Health
Development Fund.
3.34   As soon as possible after the end of the financial year, but no later than nine months after its
completion, the government will present audits of the special account and the Program accounts. The
costs of the audits are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the credit.
3.35   The auditor's terms of reference reflecting the conditions described above were reviewed and
agreed by IDA during negotiations. An accounting manual will be prepared and submitted to IDA for
review prior to credit signature.



-44-
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1    The main benefits of the Program will be increased coverage and quality of health services and
increased equity in access to services with a shift of resources toward rural areas and a basic package of
health care. The main beneficiaries of improved basic facilities will be women and children as the primary
users of first level health care through MCH-related programs. MOH staff morale and performance are
expected to benefit from improved training, working conditions and incentives to which the Program
would contribute. Efficiency of the health services system is also expected to improve with increased skills
and the shift of human resources toward rural areas, the base levels of the system, and the relatively
under-served Northern provinces. The Program will generate important external benefits by assisting the
MOH in the coordination and implementation of projects undertaken by all donors, within the overall
Program. The Program will also assist in increasing the transparency and efficiency of the sector's
budgetary process by moving a significant portion of the off-budget expenditures into the budget. (paras
2.1-2.2)
B. Risks
4.2    The main risk of the Program is the MOH's potential difficulty to fully implement parts of the
sector's extensive list of activities, leading to bottlenecks and inefficient service provision. To address this
risk, the Program has been designed to support the improvement of management capacity in the MOH
and aims to coordinate donors' activities so that implementation constraints are alleviated. Moreover, the
Program's concentration of financing in non-civil works is an attempt to reduce pressure in the area of
infrastructure implementation, which has proved to be one of the main obstacles to the satisfactory
implementation of the Health and Nutrition Project. As for human resources development, the MOH has
limited capacity to manage training resources. To mitigate this problem, training activities and capacity
improvements will continue to be carefully timed and outputs modestly estimated based on recent past
experience. Finally, experience from the Health and Nutrition Project has also shown tender document
preparation to be one of the most stringent constraints to the successful implementation of a health project
in Mozambique. In order to ensure Program implementation success, from the start, the MOH has
undertaken an unprecedented effort to prepare tender documents for all major procurement packages prior
to appraisal. (paras. 3.9-3.11)
C. Environmental Considerations
4.3    The Program has been determined to be in Category C. The main positive environmental impact
the Program is expected to achieve relates to the development of medical waste disposal guidelines to be
adopted in every health unit constructed by the Program, with financing for an evaluation of the status
of hospital waste disposal provided for in the Policy Development component. Moreover, proper sanitary
conditions will be introduced in every health unit and solar energy technology in every rural health
center/post financed by IDA. Since most health units built by the Program consist of small structures,
and since most civil works in large structures involve rehabilitation rather than expansion, negative
enviromnental outputs due to construction are expected to be negligible. No environmental analysis has
been prepared for this Program. (para 5.1 (c))



-45-
D. Economic Analysis
4.4    The project is designed to achieve high gains in health status with the available resources.
Because the project contains a diverse set of components to provide improved management, logistical
efficiency, and rehabilitation of facilities, as well as components directly increasing health status, it is not
possible to obtain precise estimates of the economic benefits.  The sector strategy, on which the
management, logistics and rehabilitation components are focused, however, is the delivery of an
appropriate basic package of services. An economic analysis of the contents of the basic package
demonstrated that they are appropriate to the burden of disease in Mozambique and are expected to be
cost effective in reducing the burden.
4.5    Ranked in descending order of the percent of total years of life lost from premature death, the
major eight disease categories are malaria (16.6 percent), acute respiratory diseases (14.6), diarrheal
disease (14.3), childhood immunizable diseases (12.7), perinatal causes (8.0), injuries (7.8),
cardiovascular (5.3), tuberculosis (4.6), sexually transmitted diseases (3.3), nutritional deficiencies (2.5).
Correspondingly, the basic package supported by the project would provide cost effective treatment
interventions to address malaria, acute respiratory disease, diarrhea, delivery and postpartum care (which
can reduce perinatal causes), trauma, malnutrition, and preventive interventions to reduce the incidence
of childhood inmmunizable diseases, health education and family planning services to reduce STDs, and
nutritional monitoring. Annex-3.7 provides a comparison of the cost effectiveness of the basic treatment
and preventive activities included in the basic package with less cost effective alternatives.
4.6    With only a few exceptions, the most cost effective activities (those below US$ 2.00 per year of
life gained'6) are community based or primary health care interventions. Only a few secondary and
tertiary care interventions are below US$ 3.00 per year of life gained. The most cost effective application
of secondary and tertiary care is the treatment of acute respiratory infections and diarrhea. Treatment of
injuries and chronic diseases of adults is much less cost effective. Because the project contains wide
latitude in implementation of components, the cost effectiveness analysis will be continued during
implementation and discussed with the MOH to promote cost effective adjustment of individual activities.
4.7    In addition to the focus on cost effective interventions, the Program is expected to yield substantial
reductions in cost per life year saved. For example, the combined impact of increased coverage and
improved quality of services (including better sector management) is estimated to reduce the cost per life
year saved for treatment of children with respiratory diseases, malaria and diarrhea diseases by about
55 %. Even if the rate of implementation of the infrastructure expansion program is 50% slower than
predicted, the cost per life year saved is still reduced by nearly 20%.
16 This is the cost per life year saved for those treated. Since coverage is sparse, the aggregate cost per life year saved by
the treatment of these diseases (i.e., taking into account difficulty of access to a health unit by the population) is higher (see Annex
3.7 Tables E and F).



-46-
V. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Assurances Obtained During Negotiations
5.1    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the government will:
(a)    develop a strategy and plan of operation for reproductive health and carry out a fertility
and contraceptive prevalence survey by June 30, 1997, and furnish the results to IDA for
comments (para. 1.16);
(b)    develop a strategy and plan of operation for AIDS control by June 30, 1997 (para. 1.16);
(c)    develop guidelines and plan of operation for medical waste disposal by January 31, 1997
(para. 4.3);
(d)    develop guidelines and plan of operation for maintenance strategy for equipment and
infrastructures of health and training facilities by January 31, 1997 (para. 2.18);
(e)    conduct with IDA and other donors comprehensive annual Program Implementation
Reviews aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and
resolving obstacles to Program implementation; (iii) re-costing disbursement categories
to ensure adequate financing levels; and (iv) re-programming to ensure responsiveness to
changes in priorities, within the objectives of the Program, submitting to IDA and other
donors a progress report containing, inter alia, an annual work program and supporting
budget estimates four weeks prior to these reviews (paras. 3.12 to 3.15);
(f)    carry out procurement using standard bidding and contract documents for all activities
financed by IDA and according to procurement arrangements set out in this SAR (paras.
3.18 to 3.26);
(g)    adopt Program reporting, auditing and monitoring procedures acceptable to IDA, and the
timely preparation and submission of annual financial reports, and of external audits
within nine months from the end of each fiscal year (paras 3.29 to 3.35); and
(h)    allow the Ministry of Health-designated officials to sign all contracts with a value of US$
250,000 or lower (Box 3);
(i)    carry out a midterm review according to TOR and monitoring indicators acceptable to
IDA by June 30, 1998 (paras. 3.13 and 3.14).



-47-
B. Conditions
5.2   The government has undertaken the following commitments for:
Negotiations-
(a)   letter from the Minister of Finance providing assurances that the Program is a high
priority of the government, that it will be accepted in the Triennial Public Investment
Program (PTIP) and that required counterpart funds will be made available in the budget
(paras 1.9, 1.14, 2.58 and Annex 1.2A, B);
(b)    development of an operational plan for the implementation of the MOH-approved
recommendations of the 1990 cost-recovery study financed by the Health and Nutrition
Project (para 1.11, Box 2); and
(c)    development of an Implementation Plan for the supervision and management of the
Program, with task detailing for the IDA-financed portion. (para. 3.16 and Annex 3.1)
Board Presentation-
(a)   letter of sector policy (Annex 1.2A)
(b)    preparation of a Program Implementation Manual (Annex 3.2);
Disbursement-
(a)   for civil works category under the Rural Health Development Fund, the establishment and
staffing of a maintenance and construction monitoring unit in each of at least two
provincial directorates of health, which will be the first provinces to directly administer
the Rural Health Development Fund (paras. 2.32 and 3.6);
(b)   for civil works category under the Rural Health Development Fund, the development of
a client consultation strategy (paras. 2.9 and 3.6);
C. Recommendation
5.3    On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed Program would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 66.3 million (US$ 98.7 million equivalent).



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
Health Sector Recovery Program
Ministry of Health
Organizational Chart
Minister
_  Vice Minister
Consultative                                                                                             N         D
Council
|Technical-Scientiric L
Council (CTC)   Jr
National Health               Human Resources                 Finance & Administration          D1ietoat                  oft Pion D   an
Directorate (DNS)             Directorate (DRH)                    Directorate                                       l Diate  ooPeatin  ad
National Institute                   Provincial Health                                         Parastatals (EE)
of Health (INS)                     Directorate (DPS)                                     (MEDIMOC, FARMAC)
>
o 
-ID



Annex - 1.2A
- 49 -                         Page I of 11
Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Letter of Sector Policy
REPOBUCA DE MOQAMBIOUE
MNIMSTERIO DO PLANO E F NAN;AS
GABINETE DA VICE-MINISTRA
NY  0d50 /GVMvYMPF/95
Maputo,- lb de Outubro de 1995
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President,
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC
Dear Sir,
Re: Mozambicue Health Sector Letter of Policv
Introduction
Mozambique's epidemiological pattern and its health indicators are typical of a
developing country in a pre-transitional period. Available data on morbidity and
mortality indicate infectious and parasitic diseases as the main causes of illness and
death; namely malaria, acute gastrointestinal and respiratory infections, measles,
tuberculosis and parasitic infections of the digestive system and urinary tract.
Quantitative and qualitative dietary deficiencies,  inadequate hygiene and
environment sanitation, safe water shortages, limited access to health care,
illiteracy and insufficient access to risk-reduction information are all compounding
factors in morbidity and mortality, especially for women and children. High
maternal and infant mortality rates have been associated with insuffcient health
care provision. More recently, anecdotal observations suggest that violence and
road accidents are among the major causes of death among adults, particularly in
urban settings. Of the total hospital deaths among adults in the country,
tuberculosis accounts for about 29%. The HIV pandemic in the c6lntry presents the
same trend of other African countries; i.e., heterosexual transmission and geometric
evolution of the incidence rate. By 1994 about 1,360 AIDS cases have been reported
to WHO; but the real number is thought to be higher given the diagnostic
constraints related to lack of laboratory facilities and limited access to health care.
According to surveys carried out by the Ministry of Health (MoH), the prevalence
of chronic malnutrition (height-for age) is around 30-40% while acute malnutrition



-50 -                               Annex -1.2 A
Page 2 of 11
prevalence (weight-for-height) is estimated in 6% of those surveyed. Despite this,
recent data suggests a slight improvement in nutritional status in some parts of the
country during 1993 as a result of peace and resumption of farming and economic
activities in the countryside. However, 60% of the population are living below the
poverty line making the majority of the population a "vulnerable group". In general,
nutritional problems are still prevalent and may exasperate existing health
problems. In addition, the drought that affects the central and southern part of the
country poses a threat to the food security of a considerable number of persons.
Average life expectancy, estimated from the 1980 census data, ranges from 42 to
45 years. Infant mortality rate was estimated to be 162 per 1,000 live birth, and
child mortality rate stands at 275 per 1,000. In general, Mozambique's social
indicators are lower than those of Sub-Saharan Africa.
Following the establishment of peace and security, refugees and displaced persons
begun to return to their places of origin or choice. Demand for health care is
increasing in urban settings and places of resettlement of former displaced persons.
Health Policy and Strategy: the future National Health System (NHS)
The basic assumptions underlying the strategy for the NHS reconstruction and
expansion, and the vision sketched below, are the following:
* peace and political stability
* the absence of major natural disasters
* a sustained economic growth
* the government's unchanging commitment to Health
* continuous support from the international community
* a progressive reduction of poverty, enabling more people to contribute to
service financing.
The transition from emergency relief to rehabilitation and development imposes
changes both in policy and in approaches. The reconstruction of the Health sector is
not the simple restoration of physical infrastructures destroyed during the war. It
offers opportunities for redefining development priorities and readjusting some
major imbalances in resource allocation, planning the health network according to
the present and future demand and attempting to redress the imbalances inherited
from the colonial rule.
The reconstruction strategy encompasses: (i) maximizing the benefits from the use
of available resources, (ii) fairness in distributing resources and equity in the
access to health care, by region and social groups; (iii) user's free choice of health
care provider; (iv) integration of the public and private sectors (including NGOs);
(v) preserving the positive experience gained by the NHS in implementing primary
health care.
Health care and Rehabilitation Strategy
Comprehensive Primary Health Care will be the basis for health care delivery;
services' coverage will be expanded in rural areas. Neglected provinces, such as
Zamb6zia, will get substantial extra investments, to reduce the existing gap.



Annex - 1.2A
-51 -                                Page 3 of 11
Assurance of timely referral of patients to higher tiers of the health care system
constitutes an important concern. . Almost all existing health units, from health
posts to hospitals, need renovation or rebuilding and improvements in their
supportive diagnostic facilities. Similarly, improved management, efficiency and
quality of hospitals, as well as better facilities and equipment maintenance are
considered crucial.
The MoH will gradually expand the existing health network with emphasis on the
PHC level. The Governrent will encourage the participation of non-profit, non-
government organizations, both national and international, in the rehabilitation
process, addressing the need for readjusting the present imbalance in the network
distribution, locating facilities near population settlements, or where users can
easily reach them by road.
The MoH projections predict the introduction of the Small Health Center (Centro de
Sauide tipo III), besides health centers and health posts. The Small Health Center
is a unit capable of providing preventive and MCH & FP services, along with
outpatients and medical emergencies. Most os these units will be the result of the
upgrading of the existing health posts. By the year 2005, there should be 1,284
first level health units, i.e., 173 Large Health Centers (Centro de Sauide tipo I &
II), 661 Small Health Centers and 450 Health Posts.
Immunization delivery points will double, up to 850 and vaccinations will be
offered routinely at the health facilities and outside, reaching remote communities.
Clinical laboratories will function in each "Large" Health Center. MCH care will be
systematically included in the package. A substantial improvement in the people's
health status is expected from the implementation of this strategy.
Rural hospitals play a crucial role in the health care delivery system, providing
referral and logistic support to the first level; they enhance the system credibility,
making critical services available in rural areas. Concentrating better (to some
extent) resources available in rural areas, represents a model of health care and an
attraction pole for users. Unfortunately, mainly because of capital shortage, the
rural hospitals' network has always been insufficient in Mozambique. Its extension
is considered an essential move for the whole reconstruction exercise. In this view,
all the existing 24 rural hospitals should be rehabilitated by the year 2005. Many of
them will be upgraded and other 15 rural hospitals will be built in the same period.
Most of the new proposed rural hospitals should result from upgrading and
expansion of existing health centers. The selection criteria for its location include
the size of the target population, availability of adequate communication (roads)
and the economic importance of the district. Once the cycle is completed, an
average rural hospital will have a hundred beds, providing referral and backup
services (drug and vaccine distribution, supervision, etc.) to a cluster of 3-4
districts, serving a population of 300,000-500,000. This will be well below African
standards (100,000-200,000), but a dramatic progress for rural Mozambique.
Top-level facilities include Provincial,  Central and Specialized Hospitals,  all
located in urban areas, which also have a comparatively privileged primary health
care network. Given health expenditure constraints, no significant expansion is
expected in the urban areas. The hospitals absorb most of the Health sector
expenditures. The rehabilitation strategy encompasses the physical rehabilitation
XtD



Annex - 1.2A
Page 4 of 11
- 52 -
of these health units that have had no maintenance during the past two decades,
and organizational steps toward better service quality and efficiency.
Decentralization
Local authorities will become totally or partially responsible for several activities:
-management of some local revenues (fees, etc.)
-small scale investments
-management of special program's funds
-facilities and equipment maintenance
-in-service training
-elementary-level pre-service training
-basic-and elementary staff management, including hiring and dismissing
-community health workers' training, support, supply, and supervision
MoH' headquarters will be still in charge of critical activities:
-deployment of university-and mid-level personnel
-import of drugs
-large investments
-pre-service training
-allocation of public funds
-policy making and strategic planning
-standards setting
-quality control
Special health programs should be progressively reduced in size; some dismantled,
and others merged. Management of funds should devolve almost entirely to
provinces and later to districts. At this level, decisions should be taken together by
locally elected bodies and centrally appointed technical authorities.
The pace and the exact extent of these changes are unclear. The Government is still
exploring the issue. A progressive shift, made through small adjustments, is
anticipated. By 2002, some of the functions to be handed over to local authorities
might still be run by MoH. However, there is evidence that the thrust toward
decentralization is growing.
Human Resources
In developing human resources the aim is to improve the work-force's technical
skills, making sure that new employees are hired only when there is a
demonstrated need that cannot be met effectively by other means. Better staff
management at all levels should increase morale, productivity, and the equity and
quality of care. Better living conditions for health workers are instrumental to
stabilize and motivate them.
In the short run, the number of health workers should not increase, but rather be
kept at the present figure of approximately 17,000. This, coupled with an increase
in state revenues, should allow an improvement in staff earnings in real terms.
The strategy and priorities set by the government permit a proportional increase of
skilled personnel in relation to unskilled staff, from the 1991 ratio of 1:1 to 2:1 by
the year 2002. The number of mid-level professionals should increase through the
At



Annex - 1.2A
Page 5 of 11
- 53 -
replacement of losses with more qualified staff and through promotion from lower
levels. The Health Manpower Development Plan (HMDP) gives priority to
training PHC-oriented personnel. Substantial inputs will be given for the training
of Medical Assistants (Tecnicos de Medicina) and Medical Agents (Agentes de
Medicina) who are expected to be in charge of health centers, to lead health teams,
and at the same time provide curative care. By 2002, 1,500 Medical Assistants
would have been trained. At this point, large and small health centers will have at
least one T6cnico or Agente, respectively. They will run a facility adequately
staffed by a balanced health team: MCH, preventive medicine, inpatient care,
pharmacy, laboratory and administration will all be covered.
Staffing improvement will not be restricted to the PHC network; mid-level nurses
and midwives are being trained to strengthen hospital capacity, to cope with the
expected workload expansion and to improve the quality of care.
Financial Resources
The policies and strategies above outlined were translated in a sectoral program
covering the 1996-2000 period: the Health Sector Recovery Program (HSRP), and
in the Economic and Social Program of the Government for the next five years
recently approved by the parliament. Financial resources for the HSRP will arise
from a number of different sources, i.e.; government, grant aid, and soft loan funds.
The IDA financed portion of the HSRP is one of the major loan sources and
constitutes a slice of the program financing during the period.
The government financial resources for the program were estimated from the
figures for 1995, a year in which a substantial increase in real terms (about 40%)
of the Health sector recurrent budget took place. During the program lifetime the
government will increase the sector's recurrent budget by 4 % p.a. in real terms. The
anticipated growth of the government financing means an increase in the per-capita
recurrent expenditure of approximately 1.3% p.a., and will allow for improvement of
the quality of services delivered to the population.
Based on GDP growth estimates of 5% and Recurrent Public Expenditure growth of
1.8% p.a. (payment of interests excluded) the share of the Health sector in the
recurrent budget will increase from 6.2% in 1995 to 6.9% in the year 2000. It is also
anticipated that the Public Investment Budget  (government contribution to
externally financed projects) will increase at a rate of 3% p.a. during the program
life while the Health sector investment budget will grow 4 % p.a., in the same
period. Therefore, the share of the Health sector in the investment budget will
increase from 6.9% in 1995 to about 7.2% by the year 2000. These increases in the
recurrent and investment budgets will be revised annually to reflect improvements
in macro-economic performance.
Cost Recovery
Cost recovery,  excluding drugs,  represented about 4.2%  of Government
recurrent health expenditures in 1987. By 1995 cost sharing represented only 2% of
the government recurrent expenditure. A plan will be operationalized to implement
the recommendations of a cost recovery study conducted under the IDA financed
Health and Nutrition Project. The plan includes among other measures updating of
IL



Annex - 1.2A
-54 -
Page 6 of 11
the fees that are collected in the health units, both in-patients and outpatients
charges, reduction of government subsidy for pharmaceuticals dispensed in the
public sector, regulation of the "special clinics", and other internal administrative
measures to enhance revenue generation and utilization. It is anticipated that the
level of cost recovery will increase from 2 % to 10 % of the government recurrent
expenditure in the 1996-2000 period. This will help to ensure a long term stability
of internally generated financial resources for the sector. Measures will be taken to
safeguard the accessibility of the poor people to health care.
The distribution of the financial resources along the Program lifetime is shown
below: the figures are in millions USD, at the estimated average exchange rate for
1995.
1996  1997  1998  1999   2000
l.Counterpart funds for investment   4.1   4.3   4.4   4.6      4.8
2. GoM Budget                      16.1  16.7  17.4  18.1    18.8
3. Cost recovery                    0.8   1.3   1.3   1.8        1.9
Total  21.0  22.3  23.2  24.5    25.5
Finally, the ratio of Public Health Expenditures to the GDP will (with cost recovery
included) will be at least maintained at the present level of 1.5% of GDP in each
year of the period 1996-2000.
Maputo, September 1995
Luisa Dias Diogo
(Deputy Minister of Planning and Finance)



Republic of Mozambigue
Health Sector Recovery Project
Draft Policy Matrix
Policy Objective                          Current Status                           Proposed Action                       Responsibility and
Timing
1. Health care
a) Promotion of the health of high risk  A   Significant  number  of    rural  Concentrate  the  health  rehabilitation  Government of Mozambique (GoM).
groups with focus on the rural areas.     communities         and         former  strategy in rural areas.  Information,   Planning units of the ministries at
displaced/refugees have  no  access to  education    communication.   Create  a  central and provincial levels.  The
health    care    and    risk-reduction  favorable environment for the resumption  coverage of the public sector should
information.    For example,   it is  of rural economic activity.   Integrated  increase  from  40%  to  60%  and
estimated that the public sector covers  approach in the design and implementation  improvement of the equity index'.
only about 40% of the population nation-  of rehabilitation plans in rural areas.
wide,  with   most  of  its  services
concentrated in urban areas. Basic social
and economic infrastructures are absent
or not functioning (water supply, schools,
etc.) in rural areas.
b) Provision of good quality and sustainable  Quality of care is considered low and  Improvement of managerial skills  and  MoH, Directorates of Health Services
health care.                              jeopardized   by  insufficient  health  managerial processes  partly  through    (DNS), Human Resources  (DRH),
personnel, supply of drugs, laboratory  decentralization. Better management of and Supplies (DAp), Donors. Within
facilities,  and  mismanagement of the  personnel.    Guaranteed  provision  of 7 years the quality of care including
scarce resources. Clients criticisms of the  essential inputs for all health units.  the  supportive  diagnostic facilities
public system are not uncommon                                                     should parallel regional standards
c) Timely referral of patients to higher tiers  The  referral  system   is  presently  Operationalization of the Rural Hospitals  MoH Directorate of Planning and Co-
of health care                            dysfunctional.  First referral tiers are  Plan: rehabilitation of the existing rural 22  operation (DNPC), DNS, DNS DRH
badly equipped and not properly staffed.  hospitals and construction of an additional  and Donors. Within 10 years there
The proportion of Rural/general hospitals  15 rural hospitals.                     will be 37 functioning rural/general
staffed with a Mozambican doctor and                                               hospitals.  Each rural hospital will
'tecnico de cirurgia" is about 40%.                                                backup clusters of 3-4 districts and
Inadequate  geographic  distribution  of                                           cover around 400,000 inhabitants.
rural hospitals.                                                                   Each hospital shall be  staffed by a
minimum of one Mozambican doctor
and one tecnico de cirurgia.
'The 'equity index' indicates the times that the population from most developed districts,  can get more attention than the least developed ones.  rt is
calculated using Service Units  (a weighted value summarizing different health activities taking into account the time spent in eacb).  The ratio     
between the highest and the lowest SU constitutes the equity index.
-4 O



Policy Objective                           Current Status                           Proposed Action                        Responsibility and
Timing
d) Extend access and coverage              The   existing   health   network  is  Rehabilitation, reconstruction, upgrading,  MoH, DNPC,  DNS,  international
inadequate and needs renovation.  The   refurbishing, and adjustment of the health  agencies,  private not-for-profit and
healthge unditancetimatedatousehold oa  network.  Implementation of the Rural  for-profit organizations. By year 2005
The  supportive diagnostic facilities are  Health Development Fund.                  the ratio inhab.1health  center will
insufficient.   The  inhabitant/health                                               average 15,000 per unit and 50,000
facility ratios is as follows: Inhab.thealth                                        per health post.  Average distance
center = 83,687                                                                     hotusehold/health  facility  will  be
Inhab./health post = 24,671                                                          around 18 Kim.
2. Pharmaceutical policy
a) Preserve the national pharmaceutical  A national drug formulary with essential  Stabilize the supply of drugs and coordinate  MoH      DNS,   Department   of
list of essential drugs and make them   drugs was  developed  for the  whole  with donors the needs' assessment and  Pharmaceuticals, Donors, WB/IDA,
available to the whole population at the  country. Pharmaceutticals, and medical  procurement of pharmaceuticals througb  SDC.  The provision of Icits shall
lowest coat possible                      suipplies are imported and distribuited  prcrmn   f  hraetcastruhScove   The pirotlvision oits,  shais
down to provincial level by one State  "pooling arrangements" and other similar  cover a   irs  eve unts,  tha  is,
company: E.E.Medimoc. The  primary  mechanisms.  Guarantee the distribution   100% of all first level facilities shall
level of care is supplied through  the  and availability of pharmaceuticals at all  be stocked with EDP kits. The total
Essential Drug Program  (EDP) financed  levels of care,  particularly the primary  spending with pharmaceutical should
by donors in which the pharmaceuticals.  levelreach a level of at least 2.00 USD per
are delivered in Kits according to the type                                          capita within 5 years.
of health facility and personnel namely:
A, B and C. The provision of Kits has
been  irregular  due  to  procurement
procedures and delays in disbursement of
finds by different donors. At a national
level the proportion of first level health
facilities stocked with EDP kits A, B and
C, according to planned needs is 52% for
kit "A", 65% fro kit "B" and 85% for kit
"C".      The   total   spending   on
pharnaceuticals amounts to less than
US$ 1.00 per capita.
b) Promote the rational use of drugs at all  Therapeutic guidelines have been issued  Enhance  and  improve  the  National  MoH, Pharmaceutical Department of
levels of the system                      to ensure good prescription practices and  Pharmaceutical  Policy  based  on  the  DNS. Within 5 years drug's leakage
standard treatment of common diseases.  Essential Drugs concept. Develop measures  from the system should be reduced to
Overprescription  and  leakage  in  the  to control prescription and the dispensing of less than 5% of the total volume of
system  are not uncommon.  Supply Of  drugs. Develop an information system for  pharmaceuticals distributed at each
Kits does not always correspond to the  pharmaceuticals and in-service training for  level. Average number of drugs per
number of outpatient consultations.      the personnel.                              prescription should not surpass 3 at
levels 2,3 and 4 and not 2 at the
primary level of care
O'U
cmf



Policy Objective                         Current Status                         Proposed Action                       Responsibility and
Timing
3. Human Resources
a) Improving skills, moral, productivity  Uneven  staff distribution  across the  Recruit more trainees from underprivileged  MoH, DNPC, DNS, DRH and Training
and deployment                           regions. Workload measured as Service  provinces and  areas  for basic  health  Department.   Within 7 years the
Units per health worker shows great  courses. In the Job training,  refreshing  provinces and districts should have all
discrepancies across the country  and  courses,  supervision.  Redeployment of health posts staffed with at least
within regions-  Quality of health care  staff to rural areas. Institute a system of elementary level personnel.  About
affected  by the insufficient technical  allowances to compensate for hardship  70%  of Health centers should be
skills of health providers specially at postings and for lost opportunities to earn  staffed by a T6cnico de Medicina.
lower levels.   Approximately 20%  of additional  income  in  urban  areas.
health posts are staffed with non-trained  Facilitate promotion using more objective
personnel. About 40% of health centers  criteria to create greater professional and
are staffed with an "agente de medicina".  material incentives to perform well. Ratios
Very few Doctors in the districts and  inhabitants/health worker for each region
almost no Mozambican specialist outside  and provinces are to be revised and criteria
of Maputo.                             developed to reduce inequities.
b)  Improve  the  working  and  living  The basic inputs for the provision of Increase  the  average salary  of health  MPF,    MoH           Directorate  of
conditions of the health workers         health care are not always present in the  personnel.   Provide  housing  for rural  Administration an Finance (DAF),
health facilities. Salaries are low. Illegal  personnel.  Give priority and opportunity  DRH.                             (n
payments have been reported.           for post-graduation training for those in
rural areas. Payment of incentives based
on productivity criterion.
c) Restructure the piramid of the health  Ratio skilled worker/unskilled =1:1 Most Increase the number of skilled personnel  MoH, DRH. Increase the ratio of
work-force.                              skilled have basic level training. Only  through  training  of  existing  staff    skilled to unskilled from  1:1 to 2:1
1.3% have a university degree.         (upgrading of basic to medium level and  within 7 years.
unskilled to elementary level). Reduce to
minimum    admissions   of   unskilled
personnel.
d)  Improve  performance  of  training  Training institutes need renovation and  Rehabilitate and equip training institution.  MoH, DRH and DNS. Donors will be
institutions and reduce losses in training  equipment.  The curricula,  training    Revise the curricula and programs.   involved specially those in charge of
cycle                                   programs and materials have not been  Refresh teaching staff.   Apply stricter  integrated   programs   in   some
kept in pace with the new requirements  educational criteria in selecting candidates  provinces. The drop out rate by level
of the services. Admission criteria are  for training. Implementation of the HMDP   and training should not surpass 20%
loose  and  in  general  educational                                             of those admitted within 5 years
backgrounds seem inadequate. Teaching
staff  without  training in teaching
methodology.
eDe,
oC '
- f-
-4;'



Policy Objective                           Current Status                           Proposed Action                        Responsibility and
Timing
4. Financial Resources
a) Increase gradually the share of the  Proportion of the health sector in State  The financial resources of the sector are to  MPF and MoH.  The share of the
health sector in public spending           expenditures declined since 1981 when it  be increased  over time. The recurrent  health sector in the recurrent budget
was 10.7% to the lowest level of 3%  in  budget for health will be increased in real  will always increase over the program
1990.                                   terms by 4% p.a. and capital budget will be  lifetime
increased by 4% p.a. These increases will be
revised annually to reflect improvements in
macro-economic performance.
b) Cost-sharing                           Fees are charged for outpatient and in  Operationalization of a cost-recovery plan,  GoM, MoH, DNPC, DAF, and DNS.
patient care.  For inpatient treatment  updating of the fees currently charged with  Within 5 years 10 % of the recurrent
drugs are free of charge. For outpatient  minimum reduction of utilization of health  budget of the  sector  should  be
dispensing drugs are subsidized by about  units. Decrease the government subsidy on  recovered.
88%  and in rural areas a fixed fee is  drugs. Examine the introduction of a social
collected for any prescription. The fees  insurance scheme.
have not been updated since 1993.
Special clinics in public hospitals charge
higher user fees  for a more expedite
service. Cost recovery represents about
2%  of government recurrent health
expenditures.  Currently a proposal is
under consideration to create a fund for
medical care of civil servants.  Abott
1.5% of the State employees wages will be
discounted and transferred to the health
sector  budget  to  cover  inpatient
treatment and pharmaceuticals for them.
c) Financial sustainability and cost-saving  Financial management and control are  Improve    financial    planning    and  MoH,  DNPC,  DAF.  MiPF is to
measures                                  weak. The huge gap between the needs  management.  Link budget categories to  allocate financial resources to the
and  available resources, the level of  activities.   Improve accounts procedures  health sector as stated above. Within
public spending and economic growth,   and  financial analysis at all levels.    5 years budgeting  and pricing of
undermine financial sustainability  (that  Enhance  integrated  and  decentralized  services in hospitals should follow cost
is the provision of a basic health care  planning exercises                          analysis criteria
package requiring a basic budget with a
minimum external financial input).
o>.
- N
o ->



Policy Objective                         Current Status                          Proposed Action                       Responsibility and
Timing
a)Decentralization                       There is no clear policy and strategy for A strategy for decentralization is to be  Ministry of State Administration,
decentralization. The sector has moved  adopted and implemented. Local capacity  Directorate of Local Administration,
to  deconcentrate  some   operational  building is the cornerstone to enhance  MoH, DNPC, DNS, DRH. MPF.
function to the provinces              managerial skills.  Revision of the legal Within 2 years,  functions to be
framework  and  regulation  is  under  delegated to the autarchies should
consideration in light of the creation of local have been clearly defined.
autarchies.
b) Institutional development             Management capacity is hampered by      Redefinition of competencies, functions   MoH, DNPC, DRH, Department of
lack of trained personnel in disciplines of  and roles of the central, provincial and  Training, WHO. Within 4-6 years the
administration, management and public   district levels. Restructuring of the MoH.    first university level course in the
health. The number of health workers    Improve information systems and          field of public health should start.
with formal training in public health is    subsystems for all levels of care. Undertake
very limited specially at lower levels.  the pre viability study for the creation of a
Thus policy formulation and            university institution for the training of
development, planning, implementation,  Public Health Specialists, Nurses,
monitoring and evaluation are weak     Pharmacists, Hospital Administrators and
within the system, particularly at the  Epidemiologists.
provincial and district levels.
6. Aid management and donor
coordination
a) Reinforce an integrated approach in  The number of projects in the health  Biannual donor Coordinating meetings will MoH, DNPC DRH, DNS, DAF and
health project design                    sector is large and this is a weakening  take place to agree on rolling five year  Donors.    Within  2  years  an
element of the already-fragile managerial plans and annual budgets and to monitor  information system  to monitor all
capacity of the sector.   Projects are  the progress of the Health Sector Recovery  externally funded projects should be
verticalized, with parallel administration  Program.   Institution  of a information  operational in the MoH.  Within 5
directed by donors which hampers MoH  system to manage aid.                      years the MoH shoild develop its own
institutional development                                                        projects and submit to donors
so 
o -



- 60 -                         Annex - 1.2B
Republic of Mozambique                 Page I of 2
Health Sector Recovery Program
Letter of Counterpart Assurances
tEPU8UCA DE MOQAMS(CUE
MINISTERIO DO PLANO E FINANqAS
GABINETE DA VI-1fNrrSTRA
N  SSr /GM-VMPF/MPF/95
Maputo, September 27, 1995
Mrs. Katherine Marshall
Director
Southern Africa Department
The World Bank
MOZAMBIOUE Health Sector Recovery Project (HRSP): Letter of
Commitment of Local Resources
1.   This letter is to confirm that the Government of Mozambique
(GOM) is committed to implement a five year $ 355 million USD
multi-donor financed program: The Health Sector Recovery
Program.
2.   The GOM is committed to include in the Trianual Investment
Plan (PTIP) the necessary counterpart funds for the programed
investment.  The  GOM  will  finance  the  "required  local
contribution"i for the various components of the program, as
agreed  with   the   concerned   financing   agencies.   This
contribution will include both investment counterpart and
domestic recurrent expenditures funds for the HSRP.
3.   The  GOM  financial  resources  for  the  program  were
estimated from the figures for 1995, a year in which a
substantial increase in real terms   (about 40%) of the
Health sector recurrent budget took place. During the
program lifetime the government will increase the
sector's recurrent budget at minimum by 4 k p.a. in real
terms.
4.   The anticipated growth of the government financing means
an increase in the per-capita recurrent expenditure of
approximately 1.3% p.a., and will allow for a significant



Annex - 1.2B
-61-                              Page 2 of2
improvement of the quality of services delivered to the
population.
S.   It is also anticipated that the government contribution to
Investment Budget will increase at a rate of 3% p.a. during
the program life while the Health sector Investment Budget
will grow at 4% p.a. in the same period.
6.   The GOM is committed to revise annually the above stated
increases in the rate of growth in recurrent and investment
expenditures of the Health Sector in a manner commensurate
with    improvements    in    macro-economic    perfomance.
7.   A cost recovery plan will be operationalized to implement the
recommendations of a study conducted under the IDA financed
Health and Nutrition Project. The plan includes, among other
measures, updating of the fees that are collected in the
health units, both in-patients and outpatients charges,
reduction of government subsidy for pharmaceuticals dispensed
in the public sector,  regulation of the 'special clinics',
and other internal administrative measures to enhance revenue
generation and utilization. It is anticipated that the level
of cost recovery will increase from 2 % to 10 I of the
government recurrent expenditure in the 1996-2000 period.
This will help to ensure a long term stability of internally
generated financial resources for the sector. Measures will
be taken to safeguard the accessibility of the poor people to
health care.
sa Dias D' go
(Vice-Minister of Planning aid Finance)



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summry
(US$ '000, including taxes)
PERIOD: 19962000
|_____________|_____________                              CIVIL WORKS                       TOTAL 4IVESTMENT GOODS             __ CONSULTING SERVICES                            TOTAL TRAUNiqif           1
DA    D                 ONOR  TOTAL      IDA        0.      GOM       TOTAL       IDA   |            GOM       TOTAL    IDA  I          0R    GOM    TOTAL
-DONORS IDONORSI                                                                  DONORS                                 DONORS
A    fTr.ALTnSxRVCICSORJVz Y                        17,78t.7  47,275.   15,132.5  80,195.0  10,325.7  13346.0       412L   24,684.3   2,f92.0   15,620.5      47.8  10,621.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
AI  HEALTH FACUnZl DKVILOPrNT                         9,146.0   4 ,135.    6,804F    6 ,131.2   4,090.6  10,1681     223.2  14,40.7   1,023.3   4,674.6         0.0   6,56.0         0      0.0  0    .0       0.0
A    RURAL SiALTH DEVILOPMT pMD                       *,679.1   4,140.0   8,265.0  20.34.1    3,909.3   3,000.0      189.6   7,0#.7       960.0       0.0       0.0     160.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A  LASORATOmS SUIGTUENnG                                 62.6S      0.0      17.1      73.7   2,316.9        0.0       0.0   2,316.9      147.0       0.0       0.0     147.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
RAM, & I*. SUtPPmEs PRORAM STAriIizArION            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0     460.0       0.0       47.8     497.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A.S  NATIONAL MAInNAI4CE PtOGRAM                          0.0       0.0       0.0      o0.0      6.0       17.9        0.0     787.1      312.    1,137A        0.0   1,510.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A.6  DISTIUTINAL FEEDING PROGRAM                          0.0       0.0 ____0.0 ____0.0            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A.7  GCNEAL PROVNCIAL OPERATIONS                          0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0  390S           0.0c  9, 6 10      0.06   0.0        0.0t   0.0
k    INSTrnJT1OTALSUPpORT                             1,173.4       0.0     310.2   1,83.6   2,672.7       681.2      U6.6   3,420.5   9109.1   4,218.2        16.7  13,424.8    926.2  1,580.0    265.1  2,760.3
k I  SUPPLY SYSTEM WIPROVSMENT                        1,088.8       0.0     2U6.2   1,372z0    1,326.3     465.0      43.0   1,636.1      121.5       0.0       0.0     121.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3:2  PROVINCaAL HEALTH MANAGECIM   IMPROVEMENT           67.6       0.0      24.0     111.51    7U8.2      202.7       z9      "3.8   1,553.9   3,086.4         0.0   4,640.3   417.3  1,500.0   193.9  2,111.2
3-3  UEALnT INFlORMATION SYSTEM MPROVEMENT                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0Q    207.8       13.6       0.0     221.3      948.0     600.0      16.7   1,464.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
&-4  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                   o. o       .o       o.c        0.0     47b.9       o o      20. S      8.      ,233.c     601.8       Q.0   6,86.        o.0      o.0      o.t      o.C
C    HUMAN REOURCES DEVLOPMET                         2,029.2   3,066.0     839.7   6,936.0   1,862.0      570.0      73.5   2,505.5      88.6    2,636.0       0.0   3,786.6 14,634.6    738.7  1,189.8  16,633
CI  RHMD. PLAN WIUMPMNTATION (to.-Jd Trau.i)              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      527.6   2,000.0       0.0   2,52r.5  12,317.4    706.6   140.2  13,064.1
C:2  TRAMING C"Arcn-Y BWROVeMXNT                      2,029.2 _3,0t64.0     us.7-   S,93S.0    1,S02.4t    670.01     sS.4   2,4401       Z7.1      S24.0       o.o   1,0S1.1      o.o       o.o     0.0      O.C1
C:.3  IN4tlRVICl TRAININ WOROVE  ENT                      o.o       o.o       oc0        o.c       o.c       o. o       .o        0.0     13S.0       0.0       0.0      136.0  2,043.S    32z3    z20.2  4290s.0
CM4  FACI LTY OF MIEDICCN                                 0.0       0.01      0.01      0.0       SS.6      0Q0        S.2      04.7        o.o       Q.        O.o       O.o   273.9       0.0    3s     03.3t
c: Ts IM nncOPrRAnoNs                                     o.o       o.o _      .t       o.c        o.c       o.        0.o        o.c       o.l      720 o      o.c       72.0     o .o1    o.o      0.0      o.t
_ TOTAL                      -20,989.3  50,341 .8   1 6,2s2.5 S7,613-.!  16S,4tlO.4  14,Ss7.2 ssz.7  30,ti10.3  12 , S2 22,s 14.7   64.51  35,s3 1.6  1 S,660.1  2, 318S.7  1,444.9  1 s,323.7
_   Phtpi. k pdce dngi.9                            3,740.9 __ 00    0 O.C   3.f40. S         61.9        o.a        o.o '     1.9     749.9             0.0  o.      749.9    914.0      a.o      0.0    914.0
= TOTAL WvfCONTrMcNGXcrS               2,30.1 60,3_41.8   1 6,282.5  91,364.3  16S,312.3   1 4,sn.2                662.7  31 ,462.2   1 3,70Z23   22,814.71  *4.51  3,5S1.41 18,474.11 2,31s.71 1 ,4t49 20,237.7
HRP4AASTeXLS - bus-cos



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summary
(US$ '000, including taxes)
PIOD: 1996-2000
|PHARMACEUTICALS & REAGENTES               GOODS & SERVICES _                      SALARIES                 HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
IA       ".    GOM    TOTAL    IDA                  GOM    TOrAL    IDA                0Gom    ToTrAL     IDA   | "           GOM       GRANDr
DONORSI  O                         DONORS                             DONORS                                DONORSTOA
E EAMLTH sERVicES DELIVERY                         18,000.0  6,025.4     0.0 24,025    7,406U  29,640A  38221.7  7526.3       0.0  6,248.5 21,602.  27,7481.3  7,071.5  11 3,153t   75,17.5    208
Lt HEALTH FACILUES DEVELOSMENT                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.e  14,27.8   57 6    7,073.           79,20.
A2  RURAL HEALTi D2LV NT FUND                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  13,444           .     8,48        29,042.
A.   LASORATORIES STRENGTHING                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0o     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    20.        526         0.0      17.1
A.4  PHA4R, & 14 SUuPLtS PROGRAM STAll.IZATION     18,000.0  6,028A      0.0 24,0214       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0  18,450.0    ,025I        47.A
AMS  NATIONAL MAWIENANCE PROGRAM                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1,620.0   219.7   194.7  2,0344        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.I   2,092.6   1,848t       194.7       4,32.3
MS6  INSTITUTIONAL ESErDING PROGRAM                    0.01     0.0      0.0 ___0.0        0.0  10,100.0   310.0  10,410.0    0.0      0.0     0.01     0.0        0.0   10,100.0    310.0      10,410.0
A.   GEN1 RAL PROVINCIAL oPRATIONS                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  5,786.2  19,320.6 37,717.0 62,823.9    0.0  6,248.6 21,502.5  27,748.3   5,736.2  38,474.6  59,219.9    100,4so.
*:  INSTTUnoNAL SUPPORT                                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    44.1  3,637.0 29,058.0 3Z739.1       0.0      0.0  S,894.6  8,894.6   13,925.4   10,196A   38,S01.1    6t2722.
_ _ SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   2,63t.2      466.0     329.3
B:2  PROVINCIAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROvEMENT          0.0      0.0      0.0    o0.0       0.0   600.8J     0.1   680.8       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    284.s.9    ,t189.9    300.9       8,737.
B:3  HEALTH IORMATION SysTEM IMROVEMENT                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    44.1   608.5    68.6    718.2        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   1,19.9   1,122.0        52.3
B PROGRAM MANAGLMENT                                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  2,227.7 28,912.3  31,140.1    0.0      0.0  6,5s4.6  8,4       6,6814    2,829.5  37,827.6      47
C:   HUiMAN RESUOCS DEVELOPMENT                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   500.0  4,796.9   510.6  6,836.6       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  19,918.6  12,06        2,613.6
C:.  L.MND. PLAN IMPLEMNTATION (Fem.I T,sb.W           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  12,49    2,706.8        940.2      16i,491
C01   TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   300.0  2,004.6   231.5  2,536.1       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.01   4,368.7    6,4646    1,138.6     11,6M
C3   IN-RVC TRAiNNG IMPROVEMNT                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0   2,178.8       32.3     220.2       2,431.
C.4  FACULTY Of MEDICI                                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   200.0      0        0.0   200.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      533.5       0.0      34.51
C5  TRAINING OPERAnoNs                                 0.0      0.0o     0.0      0.       0.    7911.3    29.1  3,070.4      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.         OA 0   ,6.3       271 33142
TOTAL                                         18,000.0t  6,025.4    0.0  24,025.4  7,950.  38,07302  67,790. 13,63.      0.0  6,2i45.5  30397.  36,642.9   9,912.5  140,416.6  116,53Z.2  347,561.
_________a ____________________               1,112.91    0.01     0.0  1.112.9   426.3       0.0     0.0   426.3       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   7,795.8       0.0       &0.075
TOTAL W4CONTINGENCES                          19,112.9  6,025.4     0.0 26,138.3  8,376.5  38,07302 67,790.3  14,240.1   00   6,248.5 30,397.5  36,642.9   9705.3  140,416.61  116,532.2  355,657.
CX
HRP-MASTY(LS. ~- bo-



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summary
(US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PEROD: 19W2___
CIL WORKS                        TOTAL INVESTMENT GOODS                      CONSULTING SERVICES                      TOTAL TRAININIG
IDA       DONORS    GOM      T           IDA        0        GOM      TOTAL       IDA    D O          GOM      TOTAL    IDA                GOM    TOTAL
A    HEALTH SERVIES DlIVERY                          21,077.7  47,276.3  16,132.5  53,486.0  11,602.4  13,3J4.0      412.5  26,361.1   3,16.3  16,620.5        47.1  1U,826         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
AI  HEALTH PAC5IDlS DEVELOPMENT                      10,66.7  43,136.5   6,860A   60,372.5   4,621.1   10,158.1      223.2  14,902.4   1,117.6   4,674.6        0.0   6,82.3       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A2  RURAL HEALTH DIVEUPMEINT FUND                    10,017.0   4,140.0   5,266.0  22,422.0   4,121.1   3,000.0      189.6   7,310.6   1,019.0        0.0       0.0   1,019.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.
A    IADORATOERS SSNGTHENING                             74.1       0.0      17.1       91.2   2,365.7       0.0       0.0   2,366.7      15t.1       0.0       0.0     1661       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A    T4 PHAWL A AL SUlPLIE PROGRAM STADLIlAON             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      477.8       0.0      47.6     525.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.O
A5NATIONAL MAUnTENANCE PROGRAM                         0.0       0.0        0.01      0.0     604..     157.3        0.0     732.5     387.7   1,137A         0.0   1,526.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
k4  INSITnIrUONAL  DING PROGGRAM                          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0c     0.0
A.7   GNAL PROVINCAL OPERATIONS                           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0   9,908.6       0.0   3,30.6       0.0      0.0 o0.0            0.0
INSTITUTIONAL SUPORT                                  1,343.6       0.0     310.2   1,163.7   2,76U.4      51.2       W6.6   3,616.2   3,6224    4,236.2       16.7  1i3,37.3    971.0  1,66.O   26.1  2,606.1
:   SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                         1,239.7       0.0     286.2   1,626.3   1,3U8.1      466.0      43.0   1,SS6.2      126.1       0.0       0.0      126.1      GA      0.0      0.0      0.0
R!2  PROVINCIAL UEALTU MANAGEMIENT IMROVEMENT   .       103.        0.0      24.0      1T27.7    600.8     202.7       2.3   1,0156.    1 ,48.8   3,086A        0.0   4,738.2    433.0  1,600.0    193.3  2,132.3
3S3  HEALTH INORMA71ON SYSTEM IMROVIEMENT                o0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      212.2      13.6       0.0     228.7   1,003.2      600.0      16.7   1,619.       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3:4  PROGRAM MANAGCMENT                                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      36.3        0.0      20.6     378.8    6,82.2      601.6       0.0   7,14.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
C:   HUMAN RESOURCS DEVELOPMENT                       2,3e0.3   3,066.0     839.7   6,214.6   1,141.       670.0      73.6    2,585.0     321.6   2,836.0       0.0   3,617.  16,603.1   738.7  1,181.8  17,431.6      ls
C l  ELM.D. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (F-d T e           e) 0.0           0.0       0.0        0.0       o         0.0       0.o        0.0     646.    2,000.0       0.0   2,646.8  13,033.9    706.6   340.2  14,666.6
C:2  TRAiNiNG CAPACITY IMROVIMEINT                    2,308.9   3,066.0     833.7   6,214.6    1,581.1     670.0      68.4   2,619.6      234.9     824.0       0.0   1,058.        0.0     0.0      00       0.0
CJ  INSERVICTRANINGIROVEMENT 0N-.eXXVIC0                                 0.0                  0.0                      0.00.     0.0      133.3       0.        0.       139.9  2,163.6    32.3   220.2  2,422.3
C:4  FACULTY OF MEDICINE                                  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      60.3       0.0       6.2       65.8       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    293.3     0.0      29.3   322.6
C:5  TAIN4ING OPERATIONS0.                                          00        00 0.0    0.0        0.0            0.0       0.0             0.0      72.0       0.0      72.0       0.0 __ 0.0 __ 0.0 __ 0.
TOTAL                                           24,730.1  50,341.8  16,282.5  91,354.3  16,312.3  14,697.2    6562.7  31,482.2  13,702.3  22,814.7        64.5  36,581.4 16,474.1  2,318.7  1,484.9 20,237.
H  X4
HRI'.MAST.XLS - CW*dnwlcy



Republic of Mozanbique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summary
(US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PERIOD: IS960 0
PHARMACEUTICALS & REAGENTES                 GOODS & SERVICES                          SALARIES                  HEALTEH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
IDA   DN         GOM    TOTAL    IDA   D O            GOM    TOTAL    IDA   DN            GOM    TOTAL        IDA         o           M          TAL
A    HEALTh SRVICES DLVMEY                           11,112.9  6,025A       0.0  26,138.3  7,810.5  29,640.4  38,221.7  75,6726    0.0  6,28.5  21,502.  27.748.    62,761.   116,153.5   76,317.6     262.
A.l  RLAELT FACIlTES DEVELOPMENT                         0.0      0.0     o0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1   16.626A    67868       7,07.6       51,86
A.2 R2URL iEALTH DEVELOPIMNT FUND                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   16,167.0    7,140.0    8484.8       30,761
A.3  LADORATORIS STRENGTIENING                            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.     2,686.         0.0      17.1        2,6031
A.4  PHARIM & A  . SUPPLIES PROGRAM STABILJZATION    1S,112.1  6,028A       0.0  26,138.3     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      ot0.0    0.    1,690.71   6,0264        47.8       26,663
A&   NATIONAL MAINTENANCR PROGRAM                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1,726.9    219.7   1147   2,141.3        0.0      0.0      o.0      0.0    2,719.2    1,48.0      1I7          4,489
A.   INsTITUTIONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  10,100.0    310.0  10,410.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0   10,100.0      310.0      10,410.
.   GENEAL PROVINCLAL OPRLATIONS                          0.0      0.0     e0.0      0.0  6,083.6  1,20.   7,717.0  63,121.3       0.0  6,246.5 21,802.6  27,748.3    6,0U.6   36,474.6   69,216.6    100,778.1
INSTITUTIONAL sU"or                                     0.0       0.0 t    0.0 c    0.0     47.1  3,637.0  21,088.0  32,742.1     0.0      0.0  8,814.6  6,894.6   14,7262    10,196.4   38,601.1      63,5
3:1  SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    2,764.0      48.0      32.3         3
rI.  PROVINCAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT EWrRtOVEZMNT             0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0    800.       80.1    180.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    3,0014    6,6ss.       300.         8.81
5 3   HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     47.1    608.6     t.S    721.2        0.0      0.0 o    0.0      0.0    1,262.6    1,122.0   -    2.3       2,46
3:4  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                  0.0       0.0   __0.0       0.0      0.0  2,227.7  28,112.3  31,140.1     0.0      0.0  8,894.6  8,614.6   6,140.6    2,821.6   37,827.8       47,817.5
C:   HuYMAN RESOURCES DEVeLOPMENT                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    818.9  4,795.9    610. 65,826.4        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0   21,193.1   12,68       2,613.6      36,874.2
C:A HM.D. PLAN IMrPEMENTATON (F.W TW-io)                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   13,68.7    2,706.6      140.2       17
C:3  TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                       0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0    310.1  2,004.S    231.8  2,848.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    4,736.0    6,464      1,136.6      12,3S
C:3  IN-SERVICE TRAINING IMPROVEMFNT                      0.0      0.0t              0.0      0.0o               0.0      0.0 _     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0   2,301.8        32.3      220.2       2,826
C:4  FACULTY OF MEDICINE                                 0.0       0.t0     0.0      0.0    208.8      0.0       0.0    208.8      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.       6624          0.0     3.           63
C:5  ntP4NcNG OPERATIONS                                 0.0 ____ 0.0 ____ 0.0 ____ 0.0       0.0  2,791.3    279.1  3,070.4 ____ 0.0       0.0 ___7 0.0  0.0            0.0    2,863.3     279.1        3,142.
TOTAL                                           19,112.91 6,025.4      0.0  25,1383   8,376.6  38,073.2  67,790.3 114,240.    0.0  6,245.5  30,397.5  36,642.    9s,708.3 |14,416.6  116,5321     355,I57.1
C I
HRP-MAST.XL5. 9C*0     wy                                                                                                                                                                                                       _



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Programn Cost Summnay
(US$ 'O00, including taxes and contingencies)
PERID: 19_
= ___________________________ _____   CIVIL WORKS                                           TOTAL INVESrMENT GOODS                     CONSULTING SERVICES                      TOTAL TRAiNNG
0.                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.                           0.0
IDA        0    1  GOM       TOTAL      IDA    D O          GOM       TOTAL       IDA               OtM        TOTAL    IMA                GOM    TOTAL
_____________________________  ______  DONORS                                      DONOSDONORS  _ __DONORS
A:   HEALTn SERVICES DELIVlRY                           53.7   8,228.1   2,673.3  11,781.4   2,648.5       963.7      23.1   3,636A       288.2   4,524.0       s.0   6,131.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
AI  REALTH FACUITS DEVELOPMENT                           0.0   7,308.6     730.8   8,039.3        0.0     601.1       5.3       0A6        0.0   1,752.4       0.0   1,7654       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A 2  RURAL HEALTH DLOEPMENT UD                          J43.7     920.0   1,848S    3,712.1      708.5     300.0      17.5   1,023.4       56.0       0.0       0.0       #6.0      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0
AM3  LADORATORiS STRENGTHiNING                            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.01   1,418.0       0.0       0.0   1,415.0       29.4       0.0       0.0       29A4      0.0     0.0      0.0     O0
A.4  PUAR  & AL. SUPPLIES PROGRAM STAILZZATiON            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.o.      0.0       0.0        0.0      90.0       0.0 o.0             5.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0
A.$  NATIONAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     626.0      62.6       0.0     687.6       52.8     379.1       0.0     461.9       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
A.S  INSTFiUTIONAL FEDING PROGRAM                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A.2  GENERAL PROVINCIAL OPERAnONS                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0   2,692.5       0.0   2,692.5      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3:  INSTnTTiiONAL SUPPORT                                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      t42.5     232.1       4.1   1,0S8.7   1,847.6   1,772.1        2.3   3,322.0   143.1    830.0       57.3  1,070.5
l  SUPPLY SYSTENM IMPROVEMENT                             0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     234.3     160.0       4.1      398.4       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
5:2  PROVINCIAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT             0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     329.8      67.6       0.0      397.4     111.7   1,287.11      0.0   1,318.1   101.6   780.0        55.2   936.8
N:3  HEALTH IFWORMAnON SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                 0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     128.9       4.5       0.0      133A      182.1     300.0       2.3      48.        0.0      0.0      0.0o     0.0
*:4  PROGRAM MANAGlMENT                                   0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     169.f       0.o       0.0      169.t   1,185.t      75.0       0.0   1,264.8       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
C:   HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                          0.0     526.0      52.6   1,018.6      497.0     190.0      16.3      703.3     134.6     6S8.0       0.0      822.5  1,869.8    216.4   156.4  2,241.7
C:I  H.M.D. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (Po-.I Tni.W.g)           0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     107.5     400.0       0.0      507.5  1,424.1   208.7    105.8  1,740.2        \
C:2  TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                        0.0     926.0       52.6   1,018.6     449.71    190.0       13.8     683.5       0.0     264.0       0.0      264.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
C:3   NSERVICE TRAINING IMPROVEMENT                       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.01     27.0       0.0       0.0       27.0   408.7      10.8    41.3    4l1.4
C:4  lACULTY OF MEDICINE                                  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      47.3       0.0       2.6       41.5       0.0       0.0       0.02               3.4       0.0o     3.6    40.1
C:I  TRAINING OPERATIONS                                  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0         0.0 0.0              0.0       0.0      24.0       0.0       24.0      0.0      D.0      0.       0.0
=  TOTAL                                           943.7   9,3t54.5   2,671 .9   12,770.0   4,008.0    1,386.8   43.6   6,437.3 16,9803    7,284.2           3 1  9,275.7  2,013.01  1,046.4   262.7  3,312.1
HRP-MAST.XLS - ConarlgncyO



Republic of Mozamnbique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summary
(USS '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PERIOD: 19ff
_ ___________________________  PEARMACEUTICALS & REAGENTES                               GOODS & SERVICES                         SALARIES                 HEALTH SECrOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
IDA   D O        GOM    TOTAL    IDA         0.      GOM    TOTAL    IDA   D             GOM    TOTAL       IDA                 GOM         TTAL
_____________________________           ~~~DONORS _ _____DONORS  ___DONORS                                                                  ____DONORS   T___                    rrAL___
A,   HYALTH SKEVICXES DELZVERY                       3,600.0  4,406.      0.0  8,008.*  1,864.8  6,734.2  7,167.t  17,8.6       0.0  1,480.4  3,670.8  S,131.1    9,08.    28,619.2   13,440.1      61,144.2
A I  HEALTH FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT                       0.0     0.0      0.o      0,0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    8,661.5     736.1      10,388.0
A.2  RUIAL HEALTH DEVELOiMENT FUND                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    1,74.2    1,22.0    1,86.3         4,831.1
A    L3 AIATMS STRENGTEINMG                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0o    0.0      0.0      0.0o     0.0      0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0    1,447A        0.0        0.0       1,447
A.4  PHABM. * Y SUPPLIES PROCRAM STABIZATION         3,600.0  4,408.8     0.0  8,008.5      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    3,690.0   4,408.5        1.0       8,107.5
A_5  NATIONAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                       0.0      0.0      0O.      0.0    270.0    73.2      34.3    377.t      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      677.8     615.0       34.3       1,427.1
A-S  INSlTfUTIONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0  2,320.0    62.0  2,38Z0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    2,320.0      62.0       2,382.0
A:7  GNRALPROVINCIALOPERATIONS                           0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0  1,324.6  6,340.9  7,061.5  14,727.0    0.0  1,480A   3,670.8  8,131.1    1.324.5   10,43.8   10,73Z4       22,50.7
B:   INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                               0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      4.9  1,334.8  5,430.1  6,770.5      0.0      0.0  1,642.2  1,642.2    2,68.1    4,160.0    7,176.7      13,303.6
B:l  SUPPLY SYSTEM IMEROVEMENT                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      234.3     160.0        4.1         316.
BD2  PROVINCIAL HEAILTH MANAGEMZNT IMROV EMENT          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   210.4    21.0    231.8        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       43.2    2,316.2     106.2       2,064.5
B:3  HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEM IPROVEMENT               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      4.9   51S.8      62.4    576.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.       318.8     824.0       84.7       1,184
B:4  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   604.8  5,35794  56,f.2        0.0            1,64Z2   1,642.2    1,360.3    679.8    6,S0S.5       1,038.7
C:   HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   200.0  1,231.8    136.2  1,667.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    2,701.3    3,262.2    39.5         6,383.0
C:l  HMtD. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (PF-  Tngit               0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    1,32.2      606.7      109.8       2,247.7
C:2  TRAINING CAPACITY IPROVEMENT                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    120.0   668.2      78.8   867.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     86.7   2,048.2        186.2       280.1
C:3  IN-SeRVICL TRAINING IPROVEMENT                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      438.7      10.6       41.3         488.4
C:4  FACULTY OF MEDICINE                                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     80.0      0.0      0.0     80.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      163.7       0.0        6.1         169.1
C:S  TRAINING OPERATIONS                                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   863.6      66.4   620.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0     687.        66.4        6i44.
=        TOTAL                                  3,600.0  4,408.5     0.0  8,008.5  1,799.4  11,200.8  12,724.0  25,824.1   0.0  1,460.4  5313.0  6,773.    14,3443    36,40.41  21,016.3       71,401.
HRPMAST.XLS - C0l9o 1icy                                                                                                                                                                                                o



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program  Cost Summary
(uS$ 000, including taxes and contingencies)
PERIOD: 997
PERIOD:1997CIE  C L WORKS                                                                    TOTAL INVESTMENT GOODS                     CONSULTING SERVICES                      TOTAL TRAINWG
[DA       NO       GOM       TOTAL       IDA     W I        GOM       TOTAL       IDA                 GOM      TOTAL    IDA         O      GM    TOTAL
A.   BEALTH SZEVICES DELIVERY                         1,361.7   3,404.2   1,338.2   13,304.2   1,515.7   2,681.2      42.1    4,213.0     448.7   4,124.0       9.3   4,U2.0        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
AMI  LSALTH FACIiTIES DEnLLMrENT                          0.0   8,484.2     64S.4 S,332.6          0.0   1.315        6.3   1,SS7.8        0.0     15          0.0     362A        0.0     0o       0.0      0.0
Ah2  RUR AL ttALnlTH D LOPM4ENT UD                    1,S44.0     920.0   1,0 6.7   3,949.8      5s.       600.0      3J.8   1,U7.3       197.9       0 .o      0.0      1S7.8      0.0     o.o      o,o      oo0
A.3  LASORATOREU5STReNGTMENIG                            17.7       0.0       4.1       21.8     68.2        0.0       0.0      568.2      30.3       0.0       0.0       30.3      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
A.4  PRAR. & AL. SUPPLIES PROGRAM STAIL1ZATION            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      92.7       0.0       9.3      102.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
A.5  NATIONAL MAMfTENANCIC PROGRAM                        0.0       o.t1      0.0        0.0       0.0      62. i       .t       S2.6     127.9     379.1       o.t      S07.0      os0     0.0      os0      0.
A    INSTf1TUTIONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A:7  GENERAL PROVINCIAL OPERAnONS                         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0  2X792.5        0.0   2,732.       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
*:   INSTn'MJONAL SUIPORT                               938.tl      o.t     21 t.7   1,1 ss.3    S02.4     232.1      18.3^   1,062.8 ~2,JJ31.3   1,4tt2S1      3.,    3817.2   237.7   7S0.0       9tlJ8  1,0866.
3I  SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                           313.8       0.0     211.0   1,124.5      392.3     160.0       4.2    566.5       93.0        0.0       0.0      13.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
3:2  PROVINCIAL EALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT             24.8       0.0       5.7       30.6     239.6      67.6       0.7     387.8      460.5   1,267.1       0.0   1,717.5      93.6    760.0 C  544    327.3
5:3  RE ALTH INFORMATION SYSTtM IMPROVEMENT               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      39.7       4.5       0.0      44.2      222.8     200.0       3.7     426.5       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
i.4  PROGtAM MANAGEMENT                                   0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      71.0       0.0      13.4       54.4   1,486.2      25.0       0.0   1,481.2       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
C.   HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                      1,972.4   1,070.0    U62.4   3,604.8       389.t     190.0      19.2      598.5     484.1     504.0       0.0      958.9  3,838.0    242.4    293.5  4,373.9
C:  HE.LMO. PLAN IM3LEMeNTATION (7.r.d TWi                0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     228.7     200.0       o.O.    428.7  3,388.7    231.7   248.2  3,542.6    00
C:2  TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                    1,972.4   1,070.0     882.4   3,604.5      389.6     190.0      13.2      595.8     200.6     280.0       0.0   t40.6         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
C:S  IN-SERVICE TRAINING IMPROVEMENT                      0.0       0.        0.0        .0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      55.6       0.0       0.0       55.6   421.0    10.5      43.2    474.9
C:4  FACUTLTY OP MEDICINE                                                     0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    51.3      0.0c      .1      66
C:I  TRAINING OPERATIONS                                  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0t      0.0t      0.0        0.0       0.0      24.0       0.0       24        0        0.0     0.0      0.0
TOTAL                                            4,872.7  10,474.2   2,717.4   15,064.3   2,707.7   3,077.       79.6   5,564.6   3,264.9   6,110:        12.9   9,358.0  4,076.7    392.41   3323   8,460.4
HRP4,AST.XLS - t>._8t



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Sununary
(US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PEIOD: 1997
_____________________________ PHARMACEUTICALS & REAGENTES                                 GOODS & SERVICES                          SALARIES                  HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
IDA  0.      GOM    TOTAL    IDA          0      GOM    TOTrAL    IDA         10      GOM    TOTAL        IDA        0        GOM         TOTALD
_____________________________   ____)DONOK9  GOM                                            DONORS           I                 |DONORS           I                     DONORS |T_rAL
A.   EZALTH SzuVHICS nLUVUY                           3,708.0    208.6      0.0  3,91165   1,6904.3   ,78l.2  7,583.7  17,177.3    0.0   2450A   4,068.8  ,621.1    3231.1   27,641.5   13,642.1        60,522.
A I  ETALTH FACILrIS DEVTLOr'MENT                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0   11,421.1     s53.7       12,252
Al2  RURAL HEALTE DEVELPMrENT FUND                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    3,092.3    1,620.0    1,122.5       5,734.
AS   LAIORATORS STRENGTNING                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       13.2        0.0o      4.1         617.3
AA4  PRAR  & M. StUPPLIS PROGRAM STABLZATION          3,708.0    208.6      0.0  3,911.5      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    3,800.7      20tl5       9.3        4,015.6
A5   NATIONAL MAINTNANCE PROGRAM                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    333.7     73.2     40.7    447.7       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     461.6       516.0      40.7        1,017.3
A.S  INSTITiONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                          0.       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  2,320.0     62.o  2,352.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    2,320.0      62.         2,3820
A7  GENERALPROVINCIALOPERATIONS                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1,271.2  6,396.0  7,481.0  16,148.2      0.0  2,480.4  4,068.t  6,621.1    1,271.2   11,648.5   11,841.5      24,461.9
_:   INSTITUTiONALSUPPORT                                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     10.1    318.8  6,601.6  6,530.6       0.0      0.0  1,707.5  1,707.9    4,320.1    3,353.0    7,847.0      16,380.1
D:I  SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    1,399.1      160.0     216.2        1,774.2
D:2  PROVINCIAL ELALTh MANAGEMENT IMrROVErMENT            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    284.4     28.4    312.9       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      578A     2,359.2     111.2        3,356.5
33   HEALTh INFORMATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     10.1     69.5      8.0      87.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      272.6      274.0      11.5         588.2
DR4   PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    664.8  5,565.2  5,130.1       0.0      0.0  1,707.9  1,707.9    1,527.2    S68.5    7,256.6         9,403.6
c,   HUMAN RESOURCES DVELOPMENT                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    133.9  1,010.4    111.3  1,258.5       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    5,816.5    3,016.8     984.6       10,822.
C:I  H.M.D. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (Po-a T~h.i.)             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    3,694.4      431.7     248.2        4,271.3      Oz
C2  TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVTEMENT                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    103.0    668.2     77.1    648.3       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    2,66.      2,208.2     68.8         6,532.
CS3  IN-S1RVICE TRAINING IMPROVEMENT                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      476.6       10.5      43.2         530.
CA4  FACULTY OP MEDICINE                                  0.0      0.       0.0      0.        .       0.03     0.0      30.9      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       82. I       0.        6.1          87.
C:S  TRAINING OPERATIONS                                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      O.0    342.2     34.2    376.4       0.0      0.0       o       0.0        0.0      35.2       34.2         400
TOTAL                                            3,708.0    208.5     0.01  3,916.5  1,74.91 10,715.3  13,296.7  25,763.9    0.0  2,460.4  5,776.7  5,237.0   20,378.0   34,0412   22275.5         76,694.
HRP-MAST.XLS - CGw&lQcy



Republic of Mozamnbique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summary
(US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
CIVIL WORKS                       TOTAL INVESTMENT GOODS                      CONStULTING SERVICES                      TOTAL TRAINlNtG
I   DONOMROALSDA DONORS _________DONORS                                                                     ___DONORS
|_ ONRS| OM|_OTL DONORS                        DOOS          O3M   |TOTAL        IDA        NOS    GOM   |TOTAL    IDA               OR5  GOM  |TOTAL
k PRALTE SERviCES DttELivERY                           6,657.7  10,406.3    2 o5.    1S,616.       9 1,701.7    125.1   61.0   8,060.       926.7   4,134.4        C.s   5,120.7       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A.1  BEALTn FACIJTIES DEVEMENT                         2,6        9*,4S6.3   1,540.7  1350.        61.2    LO05S          L.3    ,01.1      260.1      M11         0.0   1,2522        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A.   RURAL nALTE DEVELoPMENT FUND                      4,004.7     920.0      978.0    8,107    1,117.1    1,200.0       75.7    247Z       47.4         0.0       0.0      407A       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A 1  LLORATORi STRNGTRiNCG                                15.3       0.0        4.2     2zt       343.1        0.0        0.0     343.9      31.2        0.0       0.0       31.2      0.00 .0  0.0               0.0
A44 *PRAtM & N. suPPLIEs PRoGRAm sTAUIizATIoN              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      05.6        0.0       9.6      10.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
AkS  INAnoNAL MAIN    ANCt RNoGRAM                         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      796        66          0.0     14UZ2     131.5      37.1        0.0      510.9      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A-.   OianTTUTIno .AL FEEIG PROGRAM                        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
7   GNRAL PROVINCALoPE3AToNro.t 0.0                                  0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0   1,514.0        0.01  1140          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
t_  DISTTrrtotNAL SUOtRT                                 351.5       0.0       81.2     432.8     506.8      217.1      26.8   1,060.    2,532.2       "2.i        S.21   3,060.8    461.6      0.0     45.2  4S6
B,1  SUPPLY SYSTEM  tMPROvEMENT                          328.1       0.0       75.3     401.2      611.9     146.0      25.9      752.7      33.2        0.0       0.0       33.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
ttt  PrtovCIAL DXALT.  MANAGEMENT IROVKREMNT              26.6       0.0        5.1      31.6      11M.7      67.6       0.7      187.0     494.4      542.1       0.0   1,036.5    106.3       0.0     10.6    115.t
3     EALTE INOR4MATION SYSTEM IMPKROVEENT                 0.0       0.0        o 0.0     0.0      16.3        48e       0.0       20.8     233.6        0.0       6.2      231.       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
,4  PrGRAM MANAGEMNT                                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      56.9        0.0        0.0      59.i   1,691.8        0.0       0.0   1,611.8       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
C:   IUIMAN REUSOURES DEVEOPMENT                         336.5   1,070.0      1847    1,691.2     870.5      190.0      38.0   1,015.5      282.6      504.0       0.0      756.6  4,487.4    261.6    338.3  5,067.3
C,I  l.M.D. PLAN IMPLEMENTfATION (P.r.i TraJiW.S)          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     111.0      200.0       0.0      311.0  3,9904.3    250.5    287.9  4,533.1 
C2Z  ILAINING CAIPACrrY EMPROVEMENT                      336.8   1,070.0      184.71   1,591.2-    887.7     190.0      35.4    1,063.1      34.2      250.0       0.0      314.2      0.0      0.0      0.01     0.0     C
C3  IN-SERVICE TRAING IMPROVEMNrT                          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0     57.3         0.0       0.0       67.3    433.8     10.t     44.4    488.3
C,4  FACULTY OF EDICINE                                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       13.0       0.0        2.7      15.7       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0     59.5      0.0      6.0     65.6
CA   TRAINIG OPRATIONS                                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0t       0.0      24.0       0.0       24.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
=  TOTAL                                          7,275.7   11,475.3    2,788.6  21,539.6   3,379.31   3,675.2    146.7    7,200.1    3,741.4    5,230.5     15.8   3,987.7  4,139.1    261.6    383.5  8,554.
tT  -
HRPAAST.XLS - CaWgct



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Sunmary
(US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PERD: 199I
PHARMACEUTICALS & REAGENTES|              GOODS & SERVICES           I            SALARIES                  HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
ITIDA  1DOOS  GOM    TOTAL    IDA  IO               GOM    TOTAL    IDA  1.0           GOM    TOTAL   IDA           ON        GOM       GRANDE
DONORS      ~     ___   __   DONORS                          _ __DNORS _ _____ DONORS  _ __                                       TOTAL
A  IEALTS SERVICS DfLVERY                          3,819.2   206        0.0  4.027.   2,275.   6,043.   7,614A  16,214.3     0.0  2,271.1  4,231.6  6,802.   15,311.3  28,3W8    173.1        U8,432.
A I  HEALTH FACIlITIES DEVELOPMENT                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   2,906.8   12142.      1,546.0     16349
A.2  RULAL ELALTH DEVELOPMENT FUND                     0.0      0.0      0.0      o.o      0.0    o0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   5,60.1   2,120.0   1,063.8         6,7829
A    LADtORATORS STRENGTHENING                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.       3134        0.0       4.2         317.6
A  PHAL &M.  SUPPLIES PROGRAM STABELIZATION         3,511.2   208.6      0.0  4,027.7      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   3,S14.7      206.6       S.5       4,13Z7
A NATIONAL MANTENANCE PROGRAM                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   343.7    73.2    41.7   488.7         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      556.1  6 15.0        41.7       1,111
A    INSTITUTIONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1,820.0    62.0  1,882.       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0   1,820.0      62.        1,82.0
GE7 GNERAL PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1,932.2  6,1S0.3  7,711.1  15,573.6    0.0  2,271.1  4,231.S  6,602.6    1,132.2   11,238.3   12,022.7   28,190.2
B:  INSTITnTONAL SUPPORT                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    10.4   929.6  6,623.1  6,73A.1       0.0      0.0  1,776.2  1,776.2   4,152.8    1,68.6    7,788.4     13,S0S.7
B3I  SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMNT                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     970.9      148.0     101.1       1,217.1
B:2  PROVINCIAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   286.6    28.7   315.2        0.0      0.0     0.0-    0.0       743.91    18.3      4".5        1,U680
5:3  HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTM IMPROVEMENT              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    104      19.5      3.0    32.1       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      260A       24.0       9.2         2936
B:4  PROGRAM MANAGCMENT                                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   623.5  6,71SA  6,414.S       0.0      0.0  1,776.2  1,716.2   1,7614      623.5   7,6.          S,142.6
C:   HUMAN RESOURClS DEVLLOFMENT                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    74.3  1,040.     107.2  1,221.9      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   6,061.8   3,066.0      66.2        S,786.1
C:A  HLMD. PLAN IMPLIEMENTATION (P.-I T..i.g)          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   4,18S.3      450.8     257.9       4,924.0 l
C:2  TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    31.8   i68.2    70.0   770.0         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   1,260.3   2,202        210.1       3,78861
C:3  IN-SERVICE TRINING UIMPROVEMENT                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      490.9      10.8      44A          46.1i
C:4  FACULTY OF MEDICINE                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    42.4      0.0      0.0    42.4       0.0     0.        .        .        1.0        0.0       86123.
C:5  TRAINING OPERATIONS                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   372.2     37.2   4014        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      316.2      37.2 _______32O9
=TOTAL                                         3,819.2   208.5      0.0  4,027.7  2,360.6  10013.  13,825.1  26,1992     0.   2,271.1  6,007.7  8,278.    25,5153   33,135.6   23,166.6     I1'17.
HRP41AST.XLS - Conlrng lcy



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Sunmmary
(US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PEoo 1999
CIVIL WORKS                       TOTAL INVESTMENT GOODS                      CONSULTING SERVICES                       TOTAL TRAININ  I_G
IDA -           |GOM        TOTAL       IDA     DONORS    GOM         TOTAL       IDA     DONORS    GOM         TOTAL      IDA   DONORS  GOM    TOTAL
A.   REALTn SERVCS DELWERY                             5,0U64   13,706.7   3,841.0  25,604.1    3,931.3   5,042.5      189.2   9,163.3   n3A         1,232.9       9.5   2,234.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A    E MEALTh FACILrES DEVELOPMENT                     6,975.2  12,756.7   2,6tl.3  21,420.2   2,S30.7    4,442.8      150.2   7,523.7      607.6      436.9       0.0   1,04.6        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A 2   RURAL tirEALTU DEVELoPMENT FrUNitD               2,062.4     920.0   1,178.3   4,160.7      975.6      600.0      39.0   1,614.6      201.8        0.0 _   10.0  0.0  209.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A:3  IADORATORIEs S      TIMNING                          16.$       0.0        4.3      23.1      26.0        0.0       0.0       25.0      32.1        0.0       0.0       32.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A:4  PUASM   t 5t. SUPLIES PROGRAM STABLIZATION            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.o     9U.3         0.0       9.8      108.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A:5  NATIOrAL MNTTNANCE PROGRAM                            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      45.2        0.0       0.0       45.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
AA D4STITrUTIONAL PNDING PRIOGRAM                          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
A.7  GENERAL PROYNCIAL OPERATIONs                          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      794.0       0.0      794.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3:   iNSTITUTIONAL SUPtPORT                               26.3       0.0        6.1      32A       26.3        0.0      16.7      282.1    2,205.6     256.7       4.1   2,491.8 t     4.4      0.0     9t      103.9
3:1  SUPPLY SYmM IMPROVEMENT                               0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      149.7       0.0       8.9      18.61       0.0        0.0      e0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
5:2  PIOVINCLAL UALTR MANAGEMENT  ItMROVEMNT              26.3       0.0 C       .1      32A        30.4       0.0       0.7       31.2     442.7        0.0       0.0      442.7     "44       0.0     9*      103.9
5:7  tEALTH INOMATION SYSTEM IPROVEMMENT                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       27.3       0.0       0.0       27.3     201.2        0.0       4.5      2058        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
3:4  PROGRAM MAtAGEMNT                                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       57.9       0.0       7.1       U.0    1,544.3      236.7        0.0   1,531.6       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
C:_   Mn  tURCT     S DEVELOPMENT                          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      90.7        0.0       0.0       90.7      19.7      400.0       0.0     41t.7  3,4S0.0       9.2    259.7  3,75.9 
C:l  ILM.D.tnIANI IMPLEMENTATIONt  ItTr.&.h.               0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      19.7      400.0t_ _ 0.0       419.7  2,374.6       *.2    206t.2  3,131.3 4
C:2  TRAiNiNG CAPACITY WIROVEMNT                           0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       30.7       0.0       0.0       90.7       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
C3  IN-S.RVICE TRAiNInG IPROVEMNT                          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0    44t.6      0.0     44.7    4S1.3
CA4  FACULTY OF MDICINE                                    0.0       0.0                                                 0.0                             0.0       0.00       0.0     65.5      0.       6.9     7S.7
cs   TANt  OPERATINS                                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0O        0.0        0.        0.         O.0        0.0       0.t       0.0     0.0      0.t        0.0
TROTAL  -,062.7   13,706.7    3,847.1   25,636.51   4287                                              6,042.      20.9      ,1919.61                            14    ,5    A               2     6       ,
HIRP4WAT.XLS -CkIntkincy                                                                                                                                                                                                  -



Republic of Mozarnbique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summary
(USS '000, including taxes and contingencies)
P81OD 1999
_ __________________________ FE PUARMACEUTICALS & REAGENTES  -  GOODS & SERVICES                                          _         SALARIES                  HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
_  IDA   DON.    tGOM    TOTAL    IDA   D             GOM    TOTAL    IDA    Do   5  GOM  I TOTAL             IDA   |      O       GOM       RTOTAL
DA DONORS                              ID__1ONORS  I__                      DNORS                       ____DNORS                          TOTAL__
A.   AEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY                         3,333.8    400.0      0.0  4,333.8  1,26.3  2,026.0  7,651.6  10,933.9       0.0     32.2  4,672.4  4,704.6   18,171.2   22,440.6   16,3440       56,976.8
A.i  UEALTU FACILITIE DEVELOPMENT                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    1,513.7   17,668.4    2,i06.6      29,910.6
A.2  RUM"ALEALTBDEVELOPMENTFIUND                          0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    3,247.8    1,520.0    1,217.3       6,388.2
A:3  LAIORATORiESSTREZNGTUENING                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       76.S        0.0        4.3          80.3
A.4  PRARML a M. SUPPLIES PROGRAM STAJn IZATION       3,S33.8    400.0      0.0  4,333.8      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.     4,032.2      400.0        9.8       4,442.0
A:5  NATIONAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    364.0      0.0      36.4    389.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      39.3         0.0       36.4         434.7
A.A  VNSTTTUTIONALFUDIRCPROGRAM                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1,820.0      62.01  ,8U2.0      0.0_    0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0    1,820.0      62.0        1,82.0
A    G7 GCiAL PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    902.3    206.0  7,664.1  16,662.4      0.0     32.2  4,672.4  4,704.6      902.3    1,032.2   12,226.6      14,161.0
W    ENSTITIUJfONAL SUPPORT                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     10.7    203.9  6,979.7  6,194.4       0.0      0.0  1,847.2  1,647.2    2,606.3      430.6    7,863.8      10,859Y
RI   SUPPLY YSTEMKMPROVEMENT                              0.0     o0.0o     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      141.7        0.0       6.9          168.
3:2  PROVINCIAL FEALTh MANAGEMNT IMPROVEMENT              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      8.9       0.9      9.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      833.9        8.6      17.1          619.8
B:1   EALUt  INORMATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     10.7      0.0       1.1     11.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      239.3        0.0       6.6          244.t
tc4  PROGRAM MANAGEMEl                                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    195.3  6,S77.6  6,173.1       0.0      0.0  1,U47.2   1 ,i47.    1,8023      482.1    7,932.2       9,917.0
C:   HUMAN RESOUE DEVELOPMENT                             0.0      o 0.0    0.0      0.0     60.1    U52.       86      671.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    3,60.A       961.6      3182        4,940.2
Cl  EID. PLAN IMPLEMNTATION (om  T.                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    2,994.3      409.2     20.2         3,611.t
C,2  TRAINING CAPACITY IMPiROVEMNT                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     32.8       0.0      3.3     36.1      0.0      0        0.       0.0      123.5        0.0        3.3         126.1
cI IN4KVICE TRANG IMPROVEMZNT                                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.       446.6        0.0      44.7          491.
C,4  FACULTY OF MEDICINE                                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     27.3      0.0       0.0     27.3      0.       0.       0.0      0.        96.1        0.0       6.9          103.
TRAINING OPERATIONS                                      0.0      00.0       0.0      .0     0.     662.4      65.2    6t07.6     0.       0.0      0                   0.0      682A4      65.2          W07.
TOTAL                                            3,933.8    400.0      0.0  4,333.8  1,327.1  2,782.  13,689._   17,799.21    0.0     32.2  6,19.7   6I551.9   24,437.0   23,392.7   24,.0         72,375
HFtP4WSTC_                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CwMp



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Sunmary
(USS '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PERIOD: UNe
CIVIL WORKS                        TOTAL INVESTMENT GOODS                       CONSULTING SERVICES                       TOTAL TRAINTNIG
IDA       DONORS        OM      TOTAL        IDA     DN E                  TOTAL       IDA     D O          GOM       TOTAL      IDA   D O         GOM    TOTAL
DONORS                                         DONORSI __M                                DONORS    I__                            DONORS______
A.   BYALTH SFRVICFS DELIERY                            3,628.2   5,53i.1    4,261.0  13,310.4    1,506.2    1,416.2       77.2    3,218.6     41.3    1,265.1        10.1    1,756.6     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
A.   HEALTH FAcuirlEs DEVIELOPMNT                       2,446.7    6,071.1    1,072.1    s,559.9    1,601.3    1,116.2     57.1    2,682.6     248.9      431.7        0.0     68.6        0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
A.2  RURAL NEAT TH DEVELOPMENT FUND                     1,062.1      460.0    3,174.6    4,696.7    212.4      300.0       20.1      612.4     108.0        0.0        0.0     108.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
A.3  LA9ORATORPS STRENGTHENING                             1A          0.0       4.5       23.6        3.t       0.0        0.0        .5       33.1        0.0        0.0      33.1      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
A4  FrARM. A NL SIrLIES PROGRAM STABILIzATION               0.0 2      0.0       0.0        0.02       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     101.3        0.0      10.1      111.4      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
5I NATIONAL FA4NTENANCE PROGRAM                            0.0       o0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Az   INSTIrTMONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                           0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0          o0 0.0     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
A:7  GFNERAL PROVINCLAL OPERATIONS                          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0 t     15.6       0.0      615.t      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
INSTriiiTONALSUPPORT                                      27.1       0.0        6.3       33A       31N         0.0        0.6      320    1,0026        216.0       0.0    1,217.6     44.1       0.0      4.4     46.6
5:1  ISUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                             0.0 __  0.0 __  0.0             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.01
5:2  _PROVINCIAL HALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT              27.1        0.0 oe    6.3       334       31A         0.0        0.o      32.1      139.6        0.0       0.0      132.6     44.1       0.0      44      4.6
3:3  HEALTH INPORMATION SYSTLM IMPROVEMENT                  0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     163.5        0.0        0.0     168.6       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
S 4   PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                    0.0        0.0       0          o0.0  0.0  0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      61.9       215.0        0.0     914.9      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
C: HUMAN RELSOURCES DEVLOPMENT                           0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       93.4       0.0        0.0       13.4        0.0     800.0        0.0     800.0  1,617.6       9.2    142.1  1,969.5 
CI  HELD. PLANl ILLMP NTATION (FP.d Tr,I,i)                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      o0.0      600.0        0.0    o6.0  1,2t0.6         9.2    t9.1  1,376.5
C:2  TRAINIG CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                           0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       13.4       0.0        0.0o      83.41      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
C:I IN-SRVIC TRAInNG IMPROVXMENT                            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0    460.0       0.0     48.0    506.0
C:4  FACULTY OF MEDICIN                                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.                           77.3       0.0      7.7 s6.0
C:5  TRAINIG OPRATIONS                                                                                 0.0       0.0        0.0                             0.0        0.0 0oo  0.0                 0.0      0.0       0.0
=          TOTAL                                    3,5553    5,531.11   4,2S7:   13i343.     1,930.0   1,416.2       75.0    3,424.2    1.494.1    2,270.21     t0.    3,774.   1,662.0        .2    147.3  2,015.4
HRP-MAST.XLS - Coqrngtency



Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Program Cost Summary
(US$ '000, including taxes and contingencies)
PERUOD 2000
_PHARMACEUITICALS & REAGENTES                GOODS & SERVICES              |            SALARIES               |  HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
IDA T  TDONO.    GOM        | TOTAL    IDA     0   TGOM    TOTAL    IDA  1                  GOM    TOTAL        IDA   I       .      GOM        GRAL
D)ONORS  __         __       __   DONORS _ __            ___       ___DONORS'___   __                             DONORS                  TOTAL
A.   HEALTH SERVICES DELIERY                           4,061.8    800.0      0.0  4,861.8  1,078.9  2,047.8  7,933.7  11,060.0       0.0      21.8  4,869.3  4,880.8   10,965.4   11,071.4   17,131.4       39,1U8.2
A.I  RLALTH FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT                         0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    4,204.9    6,627.1    1,129.2       11,961.1
A.2  RURAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT FUND                         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    1462.8       760.0    3,114.6        8,417.1
A3  LAIoRATOREES STRENGTHENING                             0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       84.0        0.0        4.5          0.t
A,4  PRARML & ML SUPPLIES PROGRAM STABILIZATION        4,061.8    800.0       0.0  4,851.8      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    4,183.1      800.0       10.1        4,963.3
A.5  NATIONAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    428.4      0.0      42.6    468.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      426A         0.0       42.6         468.0
A    INSTTnJONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                           0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0  1,820.0      62.0  1,882.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    1,820.0       82.0        1,882.0
GENlRAL PROVINCIAL OPERATIoNs                        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    653.4    227.5  7,829.1  8,710.0        0.0     21.5  4,859.3  4,880.8       653A     1,064.4   12,688.56     14,406.3
B:   INST[TUTIONAL SUPPORT                 ~0.0 ___0.0         0.0      0.0     11.0    250.0   62.222.7  6.483.7      0.0      0.0  1,921.1  1,921.1    1,116.4      4685.0    8,155.3       9,736.7
J 1  SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                             0.0      0.0      0.0o o     0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0
B:2  PROVINCIAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     10.7       1.1     11.8      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      242.0       10.7       12.8         268.3
5:3  HEALTH INFORMAnON SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                  0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     11.0      0.0       1.1     12.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      174.5        0.0        1.1         176.8
3,4  PROGRAM MANAGEMENiT                                   0.0 ___0.0        0.0 ___0.0         0.0    231.3  8,220.5  6,489.8       0.0       0.0  1,921.1  1,921.1      696.9      484.3    8,141.7        9,295.8
C:   HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     60.6   9860.9      98.3  1,109.9      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    1,961.9    1,770.1      241.2        3,373.2
C,l  HEMD. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (Fo.I Tii.g)                0.0 t     0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    1,280.5      809.2       89.1        2,178.8
C02  TRAINNG CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                          0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0    22.5      0.0       2.3     24.8      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      116.9        0.0        2.3         118.2
C:3  IN-SERVICE TING IMPROVEMENT                           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.01     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      460.0        0.0       46.0         606.0
C:   FACULTY OF MEDICIAX                                   0.  o_  0.0      o0.0 o     0.0     28.1      0.0       .0      28.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      105          0.0        7.7          113.
C,S  TRAINING OPERATIONS                                   0.0 t___ 0.0      0.0     _ 0.0      0.0    960.9      96.1   1 ,087.0    O .       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      960.9S      91          1,067.0
[TOTAL                                            4,051.8    S00.0      0.0  4,851.8   1,140.6  3,258.4  14,254.7  18,653.7     0.0      21.5  6,7S0.5  6,801.9   14,033.7   13,306.6   25,527.8       52,86.1
- l4
o  b
HRP-MAST.XLS - Coniingency



- 76 -
Republic of Mozambique                                                    Annex 2.2A
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                  Page I of I
Estimates of Donor Financing by Year
(US$ '000, excluding IDA)
TOTAL              1996       1997        1998        1999        2000
A: |HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY                                                  118,153.5    28,619.2    27,641.5    28,380.8    22,440.6    11,071.4
A:I1    HEALTH FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT                                          57,868.5     9,661.9    11,429.1    12,482.0    17,6684     6,627.1
A:11   Second Level Health Facilities Rehabilitation and Construction          27,360.0     4,750.0     6,920.0     6,890.0     8,400.0      400.0
A;111  Mueda Hospital                                                               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
A:112  Gurue Hospital                                                               0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
A: 113 {Buzi Hospital                                                               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
A:114 INacals Hospital                                                              0.0         0.0        0           0 0         0.0         0.0
A:115  Other Rural Hospitals                                                   27,360.0     4,750.0     6,920.0     6,890.0     8,400.0      400.0
A:12   First Level Health Facilities Rehabilitation and Construction           18,734.7     3,855.2     3,784.8     4,558.3     4,065.4    2,471.0
A: 13   Provincial Hospitals                                                    7,106.2     1,056.7       724.3     1,033.8     2,535.8     1,755.7
A: 14   Central Hospitals                                                       4,667.6        0.0         0.0         0.0      2,667.2    2,000.4
A:2    RURAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT FUND                                            7,140.0     1,220.0     1,520.0     2,120.0     1,520.0      760.0
A:3    LABORATORIES STRENGTHENING                                                   0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
A:4   PHARMACEUTICALS & M. SUPPLIES PROGRAM STABILIZATION                       6,025.4     4,408.5      208.5       208.5       400.0       800.0
A:5    NATIONAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                                             1,545.0      515.0       515.0       515.0         0.0         0.0
A:6   INSTITUTIONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                                            10,100.0     2,320.0     2,320.0     1,820.0     1,820.0     1,820.0
A:7    GENERAL PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS                                           35,474.6    10,493.8    11,648.9    11,235.3     1,032.2     1,064.4
B:    INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                                    10,196.4     4,169.0     3,383.0     1,688.8      493.6       465.0
B:I   SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                                                   655.0      350.0       160.0       145.0         0.0         0.0
I:11   Transportation System Improvement                                          300.0       100.0      100.0       100.0         0.0         0.0
B: 12   Storage Facilities Construction                                           165.0        60.0       60.0        45.0         0.0         0.0
B: 121  Warehouse - PEMBA                                                           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
T3 122  Warehouse - MATOLA                                                          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
B: 123  Warehouse - LICHINGA                                                        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
1i:124  Warehouse -BEIRA                                                            0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
B:125  Other Warehouses                                                           165.0       60.0        60.0        45.0         0.0         0.0
3: 13   Stock Control System                                                      190.0       190.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
B:2    PROVINCIAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT                                 5,589.9     2,315.2     2,359.2      896.3         8.6        10.7
3:21   Provincial Office Infrastructure Rehabilitation                            202.7        67.6       67.6        67.6         0.0         0.0
13:22   General Management System Development                                   4,937.2     2,022.6     2,066.6      828.7         8.6        10.7
B:23   Personnel Management Improvement                                           350.0       175.0      175.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
B:24   Financial Management Improvement                                           100.0        50.0       50.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
B:3    HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                                    1,122.0      824.0       274.0        24.0         0.0         0.0
3:31   Level III HIS Development                                                    0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0 0       o a0.0      0.0
3:32   Levels I and 11 HIS Support                                                 72.0       24.0        24.0        24.0         0.0         0.0
1:33   Operational Research                                                     1,050.0      800.0       250.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
B34    PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                                       2,829.5      679.8       589.8       623.5       482.1       454.3
B 41   Progrnm Implementation & Monitoring                                      1,814.1      251.4       251.4       375.0       482.1       454.3
3:42   General Central Administration                                             915.4      353.5       313.5       248.5         0.0         0.0
B:43   Health Policy Development                                                  100.0       75.0        25.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C:    HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                                              12,066.6     3,252.2     3,016.8     3,066.0      961.5     1,770.1
CAl    H.M.D. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (Formal Training)                             2,706.5      605.7       431.7       450.8       409.2       809.2
C:2    TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                                            6,464.6     2,048.2     2,208.2     2,208.2        0.0         0.0
C:21   Training Facilities Rehabilitation                                       5,624.6     1,768.2     1,928.2     1,928.2        0.0         0.0
C:211  Beira Institute                                                          1,530.0       510.0      510.0       510.0         0.0         0.0
C.212  Nampula Institute                                                            0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C:213  Msaputo Institute                                                            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C:214  Chicuque Training Center                                                     0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C:215  Chicumbane Training Center                                                   0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C:216  Other Training Center                                                    4,094.6     1,258.2     1,418.2     1,418.2        0.0         0.0
C:22   Training Operations Improvement                                            840.0      280.0       280.0       280.0         0.0         0.0
C:3   IN-SERVICE TRAINING IMPROVEMENT                                              32.3        10.8       10.8        10.8         0.0         0.0
C:4    FACULTY OF MEDICINE                                                          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C:5    TRAINING OPERATIONS                                                      2,863.3       587.6      366.2       396.2       552.4       960.9
TOTAL                                                                  140,416.6    36,040.4    34,041.2    33,135.6    23,892.7    13,306.6



- 77 -
Republic of Mozambique                                                 Annex 2.2B
Health Sector Recovery Program                                              Page I of 2
Estimates of IDA Financing by Year
(US$ '000, detail by sub-component)
IDA BASE COST
TOTAL            1996       1997      1998      1999     2000
A:   |HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY                                      57,071.5   8,999.1    8,796.8  13,867.9  15,959.0   9,448.8
A:1   HEALTH FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT                                 14,267.8       0.0        0.0   2,520.2   8,209.3   3,538.4
A:ll 1 Second Level Health Facilities Rehab. and Construction       14,267.8       0.0        0.0   2,520.2  8,209.3   3,538.4
A:111 Mueda Hospital                                                 5,060.3       0.0        0.0   1,228.0  2,755.3   1,077.0
A:112 Gurue Hospital                                                 5,471.4      0.0         0.0    675.8   2,980.2   1,815.3
A:1 13 Buzi Hospital                                                 3,736.2       0.0        0.0    616.3   2,473.8    646.1
A:114 Nacala Hospital                                                    0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
A:115 Other Rural Hospitals                                             0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
A:12  First Level Health Facilities Rehab. and Construction              0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
A:13  Provincial Hospitals                                              0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
A:14  Central Hospitals                                                  0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
A:2   RURAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT FUND                                 13,448.4   1,659.4    2,830.7   4,944.0   2,800.7   1,213.7
A:3   LABORATORIES STRENGTHENING                                     2,526.5   1,447.4      593.8    369.2      67.9      48.2
A:4   PHARM. & N. SUPPLIES PROGRAM STABILIZATION                    18,450.0   3,690.0    3,690.0   3,690.0   3,690.0   3,690.0
A:5   NATIONAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                                   2,592.6     877.8      448.2    523.2    365.4    378.0
A:6  INSTITUTIONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                                       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
A:7   GENERAL PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS                                  5,786.2   1,324.5    1,234.2   1,821.3    825.7     580.6
|B   IINSTITUTIONALSUPPORT                        |                  13,925.41   2,558.11   4,111.51  3,884.01  2,382.0|989.71
B:I   SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                                      3,297.1    339.8    1,513.6   1,288.7    155.0        0.0
B:11 Transportation System Improvement                                644.0      165.8      312.4    165.8       0.0       0.0
B:12  Storage Facilities Construction                                1,892.2      68.5      965.3    721.4    137.0        0.0
B: 121 WAREHOUSE - PEMBA                                               895.4      32.4      318.1    480.1      64.8       0.0
B:122 WAREHOUSE - MATOLA                                                 0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
B:123 WAREHOUSE - LICHINGA                                            233.2        8.4      132.6     75.3      16.8       0.0
B:124 WAREHOUSE - BEIRA                                               763.6      27.7      514.6     166.0      55.3       0.0
B:125 OTHER WAREHOUSES                                                   0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
B:13  Stock Control System                                            760.9      105.5      235.9    401.5      18.0       0.0
B:2   PROVINCIAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT                       2,846.9     543.2      850.6    699.0    541.3    212.9
B:21  Provincial Oftrce Infrastructure Rehabilitation                 359.3       97.3      112.8     49.8      49.8      49.8
B:22  General Management System Development                           915.1      142.9     237.1    256.0    279.2         0.0
8:23  Personnel Management Improvement                                696.1      132.9     249.5    240.6       63.3       9.8
B:24  Financial Management Improvement                                876.4      170.1     251.3    152.6    149.1       153.3
B:3   HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                          1,199.9    315.9       264.6    245.4    219.0    155.1
B:31  Level III HIS Development                                      1,017.3     197.5      254.8    235.6    184.2    145.3
B:32  Levels I and 11 HIS Support                                      138.5     113.5        0.0      0.0      25.0       0.0
B:33  Operational Research                                             44.1        4.9        9.8      9.8       9.8       9.8
B:4   PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                             6,581.4   1,359.3    1,482.7   1,650.9   1,466.8    621.8
B:41  Program Implementation & Monitoring                            5,680.5   1,269.0    1,302.8   1,290.4   1,286.9    531.5
B:42  General Central Administration                                     0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
B:43  Health Policy Development                                       900.9      90.3       179.9    360.5    179.9       90.3
[C:   [HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                              [   19,915.6[  2,701.31   6,446.11  5,675.31  3,349.81  1,743.11
C:l   H.M.D. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (Formal Training)                  12,844.9   1,532.2    3,489.7   3,945.0   2,740.2   1,137.8
C:2   TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                                  4,358.7    569.7    2,413.9   1,159.1    113.0    103.0
C:21  Training Facilities Rehabilitation                             3,643.7    366.7    2,230.9   1,046.1       0.0       0.0
C:211 Beira Institute                                                 842.0       60.0     463.6    318.5        0.0       0.0
C:212 Nampula Institute                                               599.4      25.0      424.0    150.4        0.0       0.0
C:213 NMaputo Institute                                               747.7       60.0      520.2    167.5       0.0       0.0
C:214 Chicuque Training Center                                        813.31      25.0      496.7    291.61      0.0       0.0Q
C:215 ChicumbaneTrainingCenter                                        409.61      25.0     326.5      58.1       0.0       0.0
C:216 Other Training Center                                           231.7      171.7       0.0      60.0       0.0       0.0
C:22  Training Operations Improvement                                 715.0     203.0       183.0    113.0    113.0    103.0
C03   IN-SERVICE TRAINING IMPROVEMENT                                2,178.5    435.7      462.7    462.7    408.7       408.7
C:4   FACULTY OF MEDICINE                                             533.5      163.7       79.8    108.4      88.0      93.7
C:5  |TRAINING OPERATIONS                                               0.0        0.0|       0.0      0.0       0.0o      0.0
I     ITOTAL                                                    I   90,912.51  14,258.5   19,354.41 23,427.11 21,690.91 12,181.6
Physical & Price Contingencies                           1    7,795.81     85.81    1,023.61  2,088.1   2,746.1   1,852.1
[TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                                1   98,708.31  14,344.31   20,37801  25,5l53f 24,43701  14,0337|
HRP-IDAB.XLS



- 78 -
Republic of Mozambique                                                     Annex 2.2B
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                  Page 2 of 2
Estimates of IDA Financing by Year
(US$ '000, detail by sub-component)
IDA CONT INGENCIES
TOTAL              1996         1997          19981      1999        2000
A:       HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY                                            62,761.9    9,084.9      9,239.1      15,311.3   18,171.2    10,955.4
A:I      HEAL1TH FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT                                      16,625.4        0.0          0.0       2,906.8    9,513.7     4,204.9
A:ll     Second Level Health Facilities Rehab. and Construction              16,625.4        0.0          0.0       2,906.8    9,513.7     4,204.9
A: I11    Mueda Hospital                                                      5,878.6        0.0          0.0       1,417.5    3,188.0      1,273.0
A:112    Gurue Hospital                                                       6,402.2        0.0          0.0         779.1    3,448.3     2,174.8
A:113    Buzi Hospital                                                        4,344.7        0.0          0.0         710.2    2,877.4       757.0
A: 115    Other Rural Hospitals                                                   0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
A:12     First Licvel Health Facilities Rehab. and Construction                   0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
A:13     Provincial Hospitals                                                     0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
A:14     Central Hospitals                                                        0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
A :2    RRtrRAL H EALTH DEVELOPMENT FUND                                     15,157.0    1,745.2      3,092.3       5,609.1    3,247.8      1,462.5
A:3      LABORATORIES STRENGTHENING                                           2,585.9    1,447.4        613.2         393.4       75.9        56.0
A:4       PHARM. & M. SUPPLIES PROGRAM STABILIZATION                         19,590.7    3,690.0      3,800.7       3,914.7    4,032.2      4,153.1
A:5      NATIONAL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                                         2,719.2      877.8        461.6         555.1      399.3       425.4
A:6      INSTITUTIONAL FEEDING PROGRAM                                            0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
A:7      GENERAL PROVINCIAL OPERATIONS                                        6,083.6    1,324.5      1,271.2       1,932.2      902.3       653.4
B:       INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                               14,752.5    2,558.1      4,320.1       4,152.5    2,605.3      1,116.4
B:         SUPPLY SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                                          3,548.1      339.8      1,642.1       1,396.9      169.3         0.0
B:11     Transportation System Improvement                                     663.5       165.8        321.8         175.9        0.0         0.0
B:12     Storage Facilities Construction                                      2,090.5       68.5      1,077.3        795.0       149.7         0.0
B: 121    WAREHOUSE - PEMBA                                                    993.9        32.4        354.1        536.6        70.8         0.0
B:122    WAREHOUSE - MATOLA                                                       0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
B: 123    WAREHOUSE - LICHINGA                                                 257.2         8.4        148.1          82.3       18.4         0.0
B:124    WAREHOUSE - BEIRA                                                     839.3        27.7        575.1        176.1        60.5         0.0
8:125    OTHER WAREHOUSES                                                         0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
B: 13    Stock Control System                                                  794.1       105.5        243.0        425.9        19.7         E#0
B:2      PROVINCIAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT                             3,001.4      543.2        878.4        743.9       593.9       242.0
B:21     Provincial Office Infrastructure Rehabilitation                       386.0        97.3        118.4          55.1       56.8        58.5
B:22     General Management System Development                                 963.7       142.9        244.2        271.6       305.0         0.0
B:23     Personnel Management Improvement                                      725.3       132.9        257.0        255.3        69.2        11.0
B:24     Financial Management Improvement                                      926.3       170.1        258.8        161.9       162.9       172.5
B:3      HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT                                1,262.6      315.9        272.5        260.4       239.3       174.5
B:31     Level HIl HIS Development                                            1,074.6      197.5        262.4        250.0       201.2       163.5
8:32     Levels I and 11 HIS Support                                            140.8      113.5          0.0           0.0       27.3         0.0
B:33     Operational Research                                                   47.1         4.9         10.1          10.4       10.7        11.0
B:4      PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                                   6,940.5    1,359.3      1,527.2       1,751.4    1,602.8       699.9
B:41     Program Implementation & Monitoring                                  5,984.31   1,269.0      1,341.9       1,369.0    1,406.2       598.2
B:42     General Central Administration                                          0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
B:43     Health Policy Development                                             956.3        90.3        185.3        382.5       196.6       101.6
C:       HUMAN RESOULRCES DEVELOPMENT                                        21,193.9    2,701.3      6,818.8       6,051.5    3,660.5     1,961.9
C:A      H.M.D. PLAN IMPLEMENTATION (Formal Training)                        13,586.7    1,532.2      3,594.4       4,185.3    2,994.3     1,280.5
C:2      TRAINING CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT                                        4,735.0      569.7      2,665.6       1,260.3      123.5       115.9
C:21     Training Facilities Rehabilitation                                   3,984.2      366.7      2,477.1       1,140.4        0.0         0.0
C:211    Beira Institute                                                       926.4        60.0        515.5        350.9         0.0         0.0
C:212    Nampula Institute                                                     657.1        25.0        472.5         159.6        0.0         0.0
C:213    Maputo Institute                                                      817.4        60.0        579.7         177.7        0.0         0.0
C: 214    Chicuque Fra ining Center                                            897.6        25.0        545.7        326.9         0.0         0.0
C: 215    Chicumbane Training Center                                           450.4        25.0        363.8         61.6         0.0         0.0
C:216    Other Training Center                                                 235.3       171.7          0.0         63.7         0.0         0.0
C:22     Training Operations Improvement                                       750.8       203.0        188.5         119.9      123.5       115.9
C:3      IN-SERVICE TRAINING IMPROVEMENT                                      2,309.8      435.7        476.6        490.9       446.6       460.0
C:4      FACULTY OF MEDICINE                                                   562.4       163.7         82.2         115.0       96.1       105.4
C:5      TRAINING OPERATIONS                                                      0.0        0.0          0.0           0.0        0.0         0.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_   TOTA L                                                         98,708.3   14,344.3      20,378.0     25,515.3   24,437.0    14,033.7
HRP-IDAC. XLS



- 79 -
Annex - 2.3
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Quarter Ending             Quartely              Cummulative             Disbursement
Disbursement            Disbursement            Cumulative %
FY 1996
September 30, 1995               0                        0
December 31, 1995                0                        0
March 31, 1996                   3.0                     3.0
June 30, 1996                    4.1                     7.1                      7.2
FY 1997
September 30, 1996               4.0                     11.1
December 31, 1996                4.0                     15.1
March 31, 1997                   4.0                     19.1
June 30, 1997                    5.4                     24.5                    24.8
FY 1998
September 30, 1997               6.0                     30.5
December 31, 1997                6.0                     36.5
March 31, 1998                   6.0                     42.5
June 30, 1998                    5.0                     47.5                    48.1
FY 1999
September 30, 1998               6.0                     53.5
December 31, 1998                6.0                     59.5
March 31, 1999                   6.0                     65.5
June 30, 1999                    7.0                     72.5                    73.5
FY 2000
September30, 1999                5.0                     77.5
December31, 1999                 5.0                     82.5
March 31, 1995                   5.0                     87.5
June 30, 1995                    4.2                     91.7                    92.9
FY 2001
September 30, 1999               4.0                     95.7
December31, 1999                 3.0                     98.7                     100



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                   ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                           Page 1 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                        1996                         1997                         1998                        1999                         2000                         2
ID     Components & Activities                       Qtr2 Qtr3Qtr4  Qtr 1Qtr 2 j Qtr 31 Qtr 4  Qtr   Qtr2tr1 Qtr2  Qtr 3 j Qtr 4                                                Qtr 3  t   Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4  Qtri Qtr 2 Qtr 3 |Qtr 4  Qtr ITQtr 2
1     1 HEALTH RECOVERY PROGRAM
2     1.1 PROGRAM PREP. MONITORING & SPN                          t
49     1.2 HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY                                                                    |
50     1.2.1 Health Facilities Development                                                                    i
51     1.2.1.1 Revise detailed design ofh.I (IDA)
52     1.2.1.2 Revise tender documents for R.Hospitals
53     1.2.1 2.1 MUEDA
54     1 2 1 2 2 GURUE
55     1.212.3BUZI
56     1 2 1 3 Tender docs approval by IDA (3 RH)
57     12.14 Design and ender doc. O donors                                 -                                                                                                                                                              00
58     1 2. 1.5 Finalize details on rehab. of health un,ts         t
59     1.2.1.6 Approval from donors on process                                              I
60     1.2.1.7 Invitation of Bids
64     1.2.1.8 Evaluation of Bids
68     1.2.1.9 Approve assessment by IDA
72     1.2.1.10 Prepare contracts
76     1.2111 Negotiate contracts                                                                                 w
80     1.2.1.12 Contracts signed                                                                                     y
84     1.2.1.13 Construction and rehabilitation                                                                          i                                  - i  _
85     1.2.1.131 MUEDA
86     121.13.2GURUE
87     1.2 1.13.3 BUZI                                                                                                                                  -        |iini
88     1.2.1 14 Const & Rehab -O.Donors-on process
89     1.2.1.15 HosphIal Equipmetnt -IDA fnancIng



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                   ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                           Page 2 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                        1996                         1997                         1998                         1999                        2000                         2
ID     Components & Activities                       Qtr2Qtr3Qtr4  Otr 1                Qtr 2       tr3Qtr 4  Otr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4                  Qtr 3 Qtr 4  Otr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2
90     1.2.1.15.1 Std list of hospital equipment revised
91     1.2.1.15.2 Revision of Tender documents
92     1.2.1.15.3 Approval of tender docs by IDA
93     1.2.1 15.4 Invitation to Bids
94     12 1.15.5 Evaluation of Bids
95     1 2.1.15.6 Approval of evaluation by IDA
96     1.2.1.15.7 Negotiation of contracts
97     1 2 1 15 8 Contracts signed
98     1.2.1.15.9 Equipment delivery
102    1.2.1.15.10 Equipment Installation
103    121.15.10.1 MUEDA
104    1 2 1 1510 2 GURUE
105    1211510.3BUZI
106    1.2.1.16 R.H. rehabilitated & unning
107    1.2.1.17 Equipment O.donors
108    1 21.171 Equip purchased & installed
109    1.2.2 Rural Health Development Fund                            _
110    1.2.2 1 Approval of the HDF Manual
1 2 2 2 PHC manter plan network by Prov
112    1.2.2.3 Pe-quallfy local contractors
113    1 2 2 3 1 Promote HDF
114    1 2 2 3 2 Distnbute Manual approved
115    1.2.2 3 3 Pm-quality NGOs & I firms by Prov
116    1.2.24 PHC Expanslon & rehabilitation: 1996                                                        y
117    1.2.2.41 Annual plan of works by Province



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                      ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                             Page 3 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                         1996                         1997                          1998                         1999                         2000                          2
ID     Components & Activities                         Qtr 2 Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Otr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr  Qtr 2 1 Qtr 3  Qtr4    tr   Qtr21 Qtr 3 1Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr3 |Qtr 4  Qtr  Qtr 2   Qtr 3 Qtr4    tr 1 Qtr 2
118    1.2.2.4.2 Civil works
119    1.2.2.4.2.1 Decide resource allocation by prov.
120    1.2.2.4.2.2 Irnfom all interested parties
121    1.2.2.4.2.3 Proposals from ONGs & local firms
122    1.2.2.4.2.4 Prepare r otractsi                                                                         
123    1.2.2.4.2.5 Approve Contradsc
124    1.2.2.4.2.6 Executon of works
125    1.2.2.4.3 Equipment for H.C. & H.P.
135    1.2.2.4.4 Monitoring of implementation (formal)
136    1.2.2.5 PHC Expansion & rehabilitation: 1997                                                                                      p _0
156    1.2.2.6 PHC Expansion & rehabilitation: 1998                                                                                      _ i
176    1.2.2.7 PHC Expansion & rehabilitation: 1999                                                                                                                   _       _      _ _
196    1.2.2.8 PHC Expansion & nehabilitation: 2000
216    1.2.3 Laboratories Strengthening                                                                                                                               _        _         _
260    1.2.4 Institutional Feeding Program
261    1.2.4.1 Details under preparation
262    1.2.5 Pharmacsutirais & Med. Supplies                                                                                                                                                                                                _
263    1.2.5.1 YEAR 1996/7                                             _
264    1.2 5.1.1 Estimation of annual needs
265    1.2.5.1.2 Review rommit, under Pooling Agreem.
266    1.2.5.1.3 Decision on use of IDA credi (fill gaps)            i
267    1.2 5.1.4 Lits of materials & speciications
268    1.2.5.1.5 Tender Dorument preparation
269    1.2.5.1.6 Doc & Spec clnce by IDA
270    1.2.5.1.7 isse nvitatoros to BID



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                      ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                              Page 4 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                         1996                         1997                          1998                         1999                          2000                         2
ID     Components & Activities                         Otr 2 Otr 3 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 |Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3  Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3 |tr4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr I Qt r2
271    1 2.5.1.8 Open BIDS
272    1.2.5.1.9 Eva. Rpt & Award Recomm to IDA
273    1 25.1.10IDAEvaIRpt&Recommclearance
274    1.2.51 11 Award contradc
275    1.2.5.1.12 Delivery of products
276    1.2.5.2 YEAR 1997/8                                           ,                               _
289    1.2.6.3 YEAR 199819
302    1.2.5.4 YEAR 1999.00                                                                                                                                                                                      .
315    1.2..5. YEAR 2000/01                                                                                              .
329    1.2.6 Maintenance Program                                        _
330    1.2.6.1 Tools, Equipment & Vehicles (96)                      iJr
340    1.2.6.2 Tools, Equipment & Vehicles (98)                                                                           Eq
350    1.2.6.3 T.Assistance                                                                                      .
363    1.2.7 General Province Operations
364    1.2.7.1 Plan of activities & budget proposal                      -          ' E.. 
365    1.2.7.1.1 F.Year 1996
366    1.2 7.1 1 1 Province Plan of activites preparation
367    1.2 7 11 2 Finalize Prov. budget proposal
368    1.2 71.1.3 Finalize Prov. plan of activities
369    1.2.7.1I.1i4 Revision of Plan & budiget- CCS 96
370    1.2.7.1.2 F.Year 1997
375    1.2.7.1.3 F.Year 198 
380    1.2.7.1.4 F.Yar 1999
385    1.27.1.6 F.Yar 2000
390    1.27.2 Add. rsources allocation



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                      ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                             Page 5 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                         1996                         1997                          1998                         1999                         2000                          2
ID     Components & Activities                           tr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |tr 2  Qtr 3    Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr3    tr 4  Otr 1 Qtr2    tr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr I Qtr 2 1 Qtr 3 | Qtr4  Qtr1 Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4    i                       r2
396    1.2.7.3 Centrally procured supplies                                                                                                                                                            _
437    1.3 INSTITUT1ONAL SUPPORT                                     .
438    1.3.1 Supply System Improvement                                  ______.__.____
553    1.3.2 Provincial Mgmt Improvement                             .
554    1.3.2.1 General Mgmt System Development
555    1.3.2.1.1 Provincial Mgmt diagnosis (Tete)
556    1.3.2. 1.1 1 Site visit & data collection (IT)
557    1.3.2.1.1 2 Dviop. of diagnosis instruments - Draft
558    1.3.2.1.1.3 Dviop. of sub-component proposal
559    1.3.2.1.2 Dviop Decentralized financial planing methi
00
560    1.3 2.1 3 Def. Provinces for PNot implementation
561    1.3.2.2 Extemal Technical Assistance                        _                                                                      -   I
607    1.3.2.3 Local Technical Assistance                     _      ,              .
639    1.3.2.4 Technical Group (monitor the processe          :
640    1.3.2.4.1 Exeajutive Tedhnical Group-DNPC (GTE)
641    1.3.2.4.2 Finalize the GTEs work plan
642    1.3.2.4.3 Training GTEs  member .
647    1.3.2.4.4 Provincial Managenmnt diagnosis                                                                                                       .   .                                                           . ,  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .
648    1.3.2.4.4.1 Proposal wih cost estimates
649    1.3.2.4.4.2 Clear proposal by IDA                                                                                                                                                                                  . .. ..  . .  .  .  .
650    1.3.2.4.4.3 Conduct Feld work (2 Prov.)
651    1.3.2.5 OrganIzing the work at Provinces                      .                      I                - !     - .    -   r
652    1.3.2.5.1 Estab. of GTP - Prov. Taoc. Groups (3)
653    13.2.5.2 Tralring GTP Ws masb                         =                 _ n|.
6 4 1.3.2.5.2.1  Proposal with  cot estimnates                                                                                                                                                        ... .........I.............- .. . ...... -.



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                      ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                              Page 6 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                         1996                         1997                          1998                         1999                         2000                          2
ID     Components & Activities                         Qtr 2 Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 31 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 jQtr 3 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 |Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1 lQtr 2
655    1.3.2 S 2 2 Clear proposal by IDA                                            En
656    1.3.2.5.2 3 Tete Workshiop on decentimgmt
657    1.3.2.5.2.4 Pemba Workshop on decent/mgmt
658    1 3.2.5.2.5 Xai-Xai Workshop on decentimgmt
659    1 3 2 5.2.6 Update prov mgmt diagnosis (3 Prov.)
660    1 3 2.5 3 Inception of Prov planing & budgeting mod
661    1.3.2.5.4 Supervision of provincial activities                               ,_                                            _
662    1. 3.2.5.4.1 Proposal wth cost estimates
663    1 3.2 5 4.2 Clear proposal by IDA
664    1 3 2.5 4 3 Supervision activiies (to be detailed)
665    1.3.2.6 Planing & budgeting system development                            _ *                                                               Vt
666    1.3.2.6.1 Diseital diagnosis in 3 Provinces
670    1 3 2 6 2 Prep. of Dist decentralization strategy
671    1 3 2 6 3 Finalize design plan.&budg system
672    1.3.2.6A4 Pilot testing of the P&B System (3 Prov ) v
673    1.3.2.6.4.1 Proposal wih cost estimates
674    1 3.2 6.4.2 Clear proposal by IDA
675    1 3 2 6 4 3 Pilot testing (to be detailed)
676    1.3 2 6.5 Assist with decentralized plan exer cses
677    1.3.2 6 6 Evalluation of the planing exercases & dono
678    1 3 2 6 7 Identify needs of Organizational manuals
679    1 3 2.6 6 Eval. and update proposed P&B System
680    1.3 2 6 9 Finalize Manuals preparation
681    1.3.2.6.10 Expend the P&B System to all province
683    1.326.11 Supervislon & Evalluddon                                                                                                                                    _______



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                        Page 7 of I11
Implementation Plan
1996                        1996                        1997                        1998                        1999                        2000                         2
ID     Components & Activities                      Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4  Qtr1 I Qtr 2IQtr 3 Qr    t     QrItr 3IQtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3 FQtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2 1Qtr 3 FQtr 4  Otri1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3 Qr Qrl t2
685    1.3.2.6.12 Computer Equipment                                                                     - m
695    1.3.2.7 Personnel Mgmt Improvement                                                     I-        i         i     i1
Y                                                                                    Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .....       .  ... . ... .. ...... ...   ......   ....  .  ...... .........   . ..  ..... .... ... ........ ..
752    1.3.2.8 Office Infrastructure Rehabilitation                               n        i-I                         -      - 
773    1.3.2.9 Finance Management Improvements                                  III                                I       II                  I       I
774    1.3.2.9.1 Management support                                             I                            I     I- I-             - i i - I-                  - I-I- I
800    1.3.2.9.2 Equipment & safes                                              i      i     i
810    1.3.2.9.3 Improve Budget Management 
811    1.3.2.9.3.1 Revise and develop better work routines
812    1.3.2.9.3.2 Develop work routines (Prov. Level)I
817    1.3.2.9.3.3 Decentralise Budget Mgmnl to Subordinat 
___                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ...  .... ....... .
818    1.3.2.9.3.4 Create "Tesouranias Centrais" at central a 
I.        ~~~~~~~~~~~..........                                                                                                                 .    ....   ........    ... ..    .
819    1.3.2.9.4 Computertse Public Accounting Systemi                                                             I                        -     -
820    1.3.2 9.4.1 Development of software 
834    1.3.2.9.4.2 Computer~ equipmeont                                                            '
84  1.3.2.9.4.3 Start use of software at Central Level (M
845    1.3.2.9.4.4 Expand application to Provinces                                                            * i            n     i p
851    1.3.2.9.5 Budget Managenment Improved,                                                               ..,
852    1.3.2.9.6 Consolidate the Cost Recovery System                                  I*
853    1.3.2.9.6.1 Define a model for CRom (org. &accoL1
854    1.3-9.6.2 Expand the system to provinces 
860    1.3.2.9.7 Develop Inffo system for coat recoveryI                               I- I-            y
861    1.3.2.9.7.1 Establish k,o sys for cost remo sys conpo
862    1.3.2.9.7.2 Expanid the system to all provinces
863    132973Develop a  onlGntoring system (c.r. equl                                              
864    1.3.2.9.7.3.1 Short twno TA. (Health acon.)-



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                      ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                              Page 8 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                         1996                         1997                          1998                         1999                         2000                          2
ID     Components & Activities                         Qtr 2 Qtr 3 1 Otr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr3  Qtr4    tr   Qtr2  Qtr 3  Qtr4                    tr2  Qtr3  Qtr4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr3  Qtr 4  Otr   Qtr 2   Qtr 3 1 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 IQ  r2
878    1.3.2.9.7.3.2 Design dir & monioring sys
879    1.3.2.9.7.3.3 Pilot cri & monditoring                                                                *
880    1 3.2.9.8 Cost recovery system revised
881    1.3.2.9.9 DvIp Financial Information System                  1
882    1.3.2.9.9.1 Access present infonnatlon system
886    1.3.2.9.9.2 Establish financial info, needs at Prova
901     1.3.2.9.9.3 Regular production of financial rpts
902    1.3.2.9.10 Expand chart of accounts use
903    1. 3 2.9.101 Preparation of manuals
904    1.3.2.9.10.2 Expansion to hospitals                                                                                                                                                                                                      00
905    1 3.2.9.10.2.1 Detailed proposal w/oosts
906    1 3 2.910.2.2 IDA. Clearance
907    13 2.9 10 3 implement in hospials (site visits to be d
908    1.3.2.9.11 DvIp & Impl. financial auditng system
909    1 3 2.911 1. Iderntify qualified staff
910    1 3 2 9.11.2 Train staff in audnmirg procedures                                                       r                                                
9 11    1.3.2.9.11.3 Auditing visits|
912    1 3 2 9 11 3 1 To be detailed (2 visns per prov/year)                                                  4
913    1.3.2.9.12 Training in Financial Management
950    1.3.3 Health Info Sys Development
1070   1.3.4 Program Management
1131   1.3.5 General Central Administration
|158   1.4 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                     _
4*59  : 1.41 HRDP. Formal-raininm                                                                                                                                                           .
1 1160  j141.1Preparation for 1996 training                             *          
_   __                                                                        .    ___ _ __ _ _ _   ~  _ _ __   I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ I _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  ___     A   __ _ _ _  _ _  _  __             ___ _



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                        ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                                Page 9 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                          1996                          1997                         1998                          1999                          2000                          2
ID     Components & Activities                          Qtr 2  Qtr 3] Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 21 Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1 |Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr                              tr 3_ Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2
1161    1 4.1.1.1 Annual revision of courses programming
1162    1 4 1 1 2 Advertisement of courses
1163    1 4.1.1 3 Reception of applicalions
1164    1 4.1 1 4 Pre-selection of applicants
1165    1.4.1.1.5 Prepare applicants examination
1166    1.4.1.1.6 Conduct examinations at DPS
1167   1.4.1 1 7 Publishing results of examinations
1168    1.4. 1. 1.8 Selection of candidates to courses
1169    1.4. 1.1 9 Candidates presented to training institution
1170    1 4 11. 10 Candidates presented to training institsuio
00
1171  1.4.1.2 Start training                                                       __                           __                                                      _                                                                             00
1172    1.4.1.2.1 Jan-96: 8 courses
1173    1.4.1 2 1 1 General Nurse                                                                                                                                            -
1174    1 4 1 2 1 2 H Facility Administrator Agent
1175    1.4.1.2.1.3 Medical Agent                                      .                                                                        -
1176    1.4.1.2.1.4 Denial Technician (prom)                           .-                             i                                         _
1177    1.4.1.21.5 Pharmacy Technician                                                                i      _      I
1178    1 4.1.2 1 6 Surgical Instrument Technician (prom)
1179    1 4 1 2 1 7 Anesthesia Technician
1180    1 41 2.1.8 Medical Technician (prom)
1181    1.4.1.2.2 Ju1-96: 11 counrsee                                  i              :                                                       - .
1193   1.4.1.3 Preparation for 1997 training                                          .
1204    1.4.1.4 Start training                                                                                      III
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ..;  .   ..    .    ...   ..    ..                                           '   =   7      ,     
1205    1.4.1.4.1 Jan-97 :11 cournu s                                                                                                          -_.
1217   1.4.1.4.2 Jul-97: 10 coumeas                                                                                  , .  .



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                   ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                          Page 10 of 11
Implementation Plan
1995                        1996                         1997                         1998                         1999                        2000                         2
ID     Components & Activities                        Qtr 2 Qt 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 1 Qtr 3 Qtr 4  Otr 1 Otr 2  Qtr3  Qtr4  Qtr I  Qtr 2 1 Qtr 3 Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2  Qtr3  Qtr4  Qtr 1 Otr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2
1228   1.4.1.5 Preparation for 1998 training
1239   1.4.1.6 Start training
1 240   1.4.1.6.1 Jan-98: 4 courses
1245 1.4.1.6.2 Jul-98: 3 courses                                    .                                                                       .            __     __
1249   1.4.2 Training Capacity Improvement
1250   1 4 2.1 Review detailed design of training facilities (I
1251    1.4.2.2 Review tender documents for T. Facilities
1257   1 4 2 3 Tender doas approval by IDA (3 RH)                   .
1258   1.4.2.4 Design and tender doc 0 donors
1259   1 4 2.5 Finalize details on rehab of T units
1260   1 4.2.6 Approval from donors on process
1261    1.4.2.7 Invitation of Bids
1267   1.4.2.8 Evaluatlon of Bids                                   i
1273   1.4.2.9 Approve assessment by IDA                                                  _
1279   1.4.2.10 Pre9are contracts                                                             w
1285   1.4.2.11 Negotiate contracts                                 .
1291    1.4.2.12 Contracts signed
1297   1.4.2.13 Construction and rehabilitation
1298   1.4.2.131 BEIRA INSTITUTE
1299   1 4.2 13 2 NAMPULA INSTITUTE
1300   1 4 2 13 3 MAPUTO INSTITUTE
1301   1 4 2 13 4 CHICUQUE T CENTER
1302   1 4 2 13 5 CHICUMBANE T. CENTER
1303   1.4.3 Tralning Operations Improvement
1304   1.4.3.1 Equipment for Training Centers



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                     ANNEX 3.1
Health Sector Recovery Program                                                                                           Page Ii1 of 1 1
Implementation Plan
1995                         1996                         1997                         11995                         1999                         2000                         2
ID     Components & Activities                         Qtr 2  Qt3Q           Q tr 1JQtr 2 Qtr 3Qtr 4  Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1jQtr2jQtr3 Qtr4  QtrllQtr2lQtr3lQtr4  QtrlTotr 2jorjt4                                      tlQ
1348   1.4.3.2 Training Supplies & Materialas                                              i      i m        m          im          m      m      m      m       m      m      m       m      m      m       m      m
1392 1.4.4 In Service Trainlng.1*                                                          i i               m m m m m mi i                                              mi            --m mi                           p
1393   1.4.4.1 T. Assistance - In Service Training Adviso                       m      m       m                m mIm                                i m Im             m m               i m        m     
1405   1.4.4.2 Training In 1998                                       m          m     m
1F406   1.4.4.2.1 Advertisement of courses. 
1407   1.4.4.2.2 Reception of applications
1408    1.4.4.2 3 Selection of canididates to courses
1409  1.4.4.2.4 Candidates presented to Iraining instilution~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... ... . .. ....... . 
14109   1.4.4.2.5 Candidates presented to training institution
1411    1.4.4.2.6 CRDS
1412   1.4.4.2.6.i Health Program Mgmt Workshops ([)
143 1.4.4.2.6 2 He-alth Program Mgmt Workshops (It)                                      I
1414   1.4.4.2.6.3 Health Program Mgmt Courses
11415   1.4 4 2.6.4 Epidimiology Courses
1416   1.4.4.3 Training In 1997
1429   1.4.4.4 Training In 1 999                                                                                   ________
1442   1.4.4.5 Training In 1999                                                                                                 ,
1455   1.4.4.6 Training In 2000                                                                                                                                                        -      m      m           
1468   1.4.5 Facuity of Medicinef                                                                     -                             -      - I- imi m                   -       -       m mm          -      -    m
1-469  1.4.5.1 Test Books                                                      Iim m                                                                 m-m                           m        im - m  
1T490   1.4.5.2 Rurai intemaships                                                                   im         - mm-                        -      m                                            m      m           
1518   2PtannedClooingDate               .      .                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..... ....... .... .....
Task                                                Summary                                              Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                            Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                           Rolled Up Milestone  K



- 91 -                               Annex - 3.2
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
OUTLINE OF IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
PART A:       RESUMPTION OF AND IMPROVEMENT IN THE QUALITY OF HEALTH SERVICES
1. Rehabilitation and expansion of the network of rural/general hospitals, and rehabilitation of the network of
provincial and central hospitals
*      MOH Project Document
*      The particular tender documents and contracts for the civil works in Buzi, Mueda, Gurue and Nacala
*      Contract for supervision of the civil works.
*      The standard lists of equipment for second level health facilities.
*      Tender documents and contracts for equipment for the facilities.
2. Rehabilitation and expansion of the network of first level health facilities (HDF)
e      MOH Project Document
*      An implementation manual defining the role of each partner in the fund regarding management,
administration and implementation.
*      Civil works manual, defining standards for construction.
*      The standard lists of equipment for first level health facilities.
*      Standard contract for the supervision of the works.
3. Strengthening laboratory facilities in rural/provincial hospitals and health centers
*      MOH Project document with annexes.
e      Contract with a firm to assess the rehabilitation in the prioritized facilities.
*      Tender documents for the priority rehabilitation of laboratory facilities.
*      Standard lists of lab equipment for each level of facility.
4. Stability in the provision of medical supplies, pharmaceuticals and laboratory reagents.
*      The Bank's standard procurement document for pharmaceuticals and vaccines.
5. Support for a national maintenance strategy.
*      MOH Project Document
*      The Bank's standard tender documents for goods.
6. Support for institutional nutrition program.
*      WFP Project document



Annex - 3.2
-92-                                     Page 2 of 2
PART B:        IMPROVEMENT OF SECTOR INSTITUTIONS, SUPPORT SERVICES
AND SUB-NATIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
1. Establishment of policies and procedures and expanding storage capacity for the supply system for medical
supplies and pharmaceuticals
MOH Project Document
*      The particular tender documents and contracts for the civil works in Pemba, Lichinga, Matola and
Beira.
*      Contract for supervision of the civil works.
*      The lists of equipment for the warehouses.
*      Tender docs and contracts for equipment.
2. Improvement of the provincial health management system
*      MOH Project Document
3. Strengthening the sector's capacity to implement its programs
-      MOH Project Document
4. Improvement of the sector's information system
*      MOH Project Document
5. Support to the development of sector policy, including systematic evaluations of the integrated health
program based on comprehensive consultations of ultimate clients
6. Improvement of the personnel management system
7. Improvement of the financial management system.
PART C:        DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES CAPACITY, BY:
I. Implementation of a time-slice of the Health Manpower Development Plan
*      Health Manpower Development Plan
2. Development of the national capacity for health personnel training
*      The particular tender documents and contracts for the civil works in Maputo, Beira, Nampula,
Chicumbane and Chicuque.
*      Contract for supervision of the civil works.
*      The standard lists of equipment for second level health facilities.
*      Tender docs and contracts for equipment for the facilities.
3. Promotion of continuing education of health workers
4. Enhancement of university medical training.
GENERAL
*      Standard procurement documents



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
LIST OF INDICATORS CHOSEN BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
FOR MONITORING AND EVALUATING
A    Present         Target for                         Section in
No                          I N D I C A T O R S                                    Value          Year 2001  || Methodology  | Charge               Periodicity
Pre-input Indicators
Government recurrent expenditure per capita in the Health Sector                                             Coordinator
1     (in USD million))                                                             16.1             18.8              DPES          DPES/DNPC          I year
Ratio of per capita recurrent expenditure on Health by least and most receiving                               Coordinator
2     Province (Meticais)                                                                            equity            DPES          DPES/DNPC          I year
Operational
3     Donors' recurrent expenditure per capita on Health (Meticais, 1994 prices)    9,947            10,000       Planning Teams        DNPC            I year
Input Indicators
I H.R. +          100%             IHIS
4     Number of first and second level facilities rehabilitated/built by year    46 H.C. & P       of planned        GACOPI           DIS/DNPC          I year
5     Proportion of health posts staffed with non-trained personnel only            30%               0%               HIS            DIS/DNPC          I year
Proportion of Health Centers staffed with a Medical Technician(Tdcnico de
6     Medic:na)                                                                                      70%                HIS           DIS/DNPC          I year
Proportion of Rural/General Hospitals staffed with a Mozambican Doctor and/or
7     with a Surgical Technician                                                                     100%               HIS           DIS/DNPC          I year
Proportion of first level health facilities properly stocked with Essential                                  Facility based    Dep. Farm
8     Drugs Program kits                                                            40%              80%              survey            DNS            2 year
100% of        Facility based
9     Proportion of health centers with an operational refrigerator                                 planned           survey          DIS/DNPC          2 year
Key Indicators in bold.                                                                                                                                                        _
Health Information System.



Present     |  Target for                      | Section in
No |INDICATORS                                                                    Value       |_Year 2001        Methodology         Charge       Periodicity
Output Indicators
10    Vaccination coverage with DPT 3rd dose                                       55%               80%               HIS          DIS/DNPC          I year
11   Coverage of ante/pre-natal care per year (first visit)                        63%               80%               HIS          DIS/DNPC          I year
12   Coverage of institutional deliveries per year                                 29%               50%               HIS          DIS/DNPC          I year
13    Contraceptive Prevalence Rate anong women 15-49 years                        3.9%              30%               FUS          DISIDNPC          I year
2.34/1,000         1/1,000
14   Institutional matemal mortality rate per year                               live births      live births          HIS          DIS/DNPC          I year
370 consults./       600
15   Out-Patient consultations per inhabitant per year                          1,000 inhabs.     with equity          HIS          DISIDNPC          I year
55 staff          80%           Coordinating     Dept. Form.
16   Number of mid-level health workers trained per year by training institution  trained         of planned       Dept. Fomn.         DRH            2 yrs
80%          Coordinating     Dept. Form.
17   Number of basic level health workers trained per year by training institution  237 staff trained  of planned  Dept. Forn.        DRH             2 yrs
Mozambique's Equity Index (Indice de Equidade) from the Operational
18   Planning Exercise                                                               8
> 30%            <20%           Coordinating     Dept. Form.
19   Drop-out rate, by level, by training center                                of admitted       of admitted      Dept. Form.        DRH             1 year
Outcome Indicators
Community
20   Infant mortality rate (per 1000 live births)                                   162               120            survey         DNS/DNPC         3 years
Community
21    Child. mortality rate (per 1000 live births)                                  282              200              survey        DNS/DNPC         3 years
Community
22    Maternal mortality rate (per 10,000 pregnancies)                             1100              690             survey         DNS/DNPC         3 years
Client satisfaction with health services per level of facility; proportion of                                Community
23   interviewed responding positively                                             39%               75%              survey        DNS/DNPC          3 years
The equity index calculates the ratio of availability and accessibility of basic services in the best and least served populations within each province. The                     C s
value 8 represents a national average of the provincial values. The indicator allows the program to focus on the provinces with the highest inequity. The
national target for the year 2000 is still being discussed within the MOH.
Small urban survey in Maputo, 1994.



Annex - 3.4
page 1 of 2
- 95 -
MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision of the Program will be arranged and timed in such a way that the effort is most useful in
the program cycle of the Ministry of Health, immediately after the national consultations in the
Conselho Coordinador in March/April of each year and again six months later. It is envisioned that
considerable staffing resources will be required for the supervision of the Program, especially if
increased donor coordination is to be achieved over the first years of the Program. However, a
reduction of the Bank's inputs into supervision should be possible at a later stage, as the implementation
of the integrated sector program, supported by all donors, gradually shifts from a project basis to an
approach along activity groupings, with supervision tasks divided accordingly among donors.
Arrangements for joint supervision with other donors have been discussed during preparation. With
SDC, agreement has been reached for joint auditing of provincial operational budgets, which are
supported by both IDA and SDC. Joint supervision missions will reduce substantial the heavy burden
on the staff of the Ministry to attend to all supervising donors separately and will help change the focus
of assistance and Government planning from segmented projects to sector-wide programming.
The annual program implementation review, each March/April, will focus on overall achievements of
the program of the Ministry of Health in reaching set targets for outputs and outcomes. The review
will rely primarily on reports which the MOH itself needs as information for decision making. A list of
indicators to measure key inputs, outputs and outcomes has been developed by the - MOH and the
donors. Based on findings during the annual review, Program funds may be rescheduled within and
among components, as the Ministry updates its five year rolling plan.
Supervision Plan
date    activity                          skills required           staff weeks
10/95   Pre-effectiveness mission (IDA)   supervision team*         10
4/96    Program launch workshop           supervision team*          30
10/96   Supervision mission (IDA, most donors)supervision team*     20
4/97    Full review (all donors)          supervision team*          30
10/97   Supervision mission (all donors)  supervision team*         20
4/98    Midterm review (all donors)       supervision team*          30
10/98   Supervision mission (all donors)  supervision team*         20



Annex - 3.4
page 2 of 2
- 96 -
4/99     Full review (all donors)            supervision team*            30
10/99   Supervision mission (IDA)             supervision team*          20
4/00     Full review (all donors)             supervision team*           30
10/00   Supervision mission (all donors)      supervision team*          30
(Preparation of PCR)
* A basic supervision team of an economist and public health specialist, regularly assisted by a
manpower development specialist, an architect and persons with other skills required on that particular
mission, such as procurement or auditing specialists.



~~~4   -                                    0.00~~~~~~~~(MW ~   BP        0               0                               0               0               0                       0        1o             Li               it              8                                                Pa300S0JI0  OQISO-10       WlOJ
4.1   0.                                            9Isw-wp glOL) ;iSl -0108          08t'            1108.0          8001             1Rs061                            '0u        881                80          11801-                                                                               la)M188o I  8  80   IO 881
(.SaH3'      30P039   18'00              0                0               0               0               0               0                               0LL8C                           118C           8L't                                             903 Jio ==q9p03             ON
CSU63'0150W       _*MPfl    L0                 0                0               0               0               0               0               00                              61               61             81----  _4 --                               80-38O0403-S083  -W0P-lteQ'ON
*0000 10iJO30~~~309fl3*LS                                                                                                                                                  St              81              at                ..48.1  8.4410
.8800?tR903S0I~~~~~P'   te10    1  0 I'  0000  08801 ___  88889  991  180811  80081  ___  0091             08'0LL         001010           001 80--- --------80..8...L...........0. .................... ..............
*MN1Jo   I30If9                  80                               0              8              00               DC              0osu.v                                                                                                                             ue.c
00001010P009p83   001  0  0           0 ____   0                    0                                                               _____                                                                (quiCv) 9J'Cv 110lo.oqr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........................
S001Jo 08fl3 WSS3 P8    001                                       0              0 ____             0          0               0('i C)90v 896
(..81010303100N30833                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......60.61..1.8.. ......_...............
L I , S      IO00ow0~3PMIw   811                   I                               81D             61              81               E                                                                                                                                        W 610 i____  8
la 011033m9*w-             10                                0               0                   ___ 00                                    0                                                                                  .................... ..............
10330130P113   001                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  0          0              0t             0                                                                                                                      6Pw B
01143    5'910803   001           0              0              0              0              0                                                                            (q..w...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j p.~~~~~8v).p.   iI............1A0....
P  mp011100.9830    0011                                                    0              0              0              0               0             0(o yo) cpj.6.~.vuo    lO
010 11*300                  01oi                              0              0              0              0               0              0              0(833001443    11
~~~I0@10U30W00i1SPI88   01  0  0     0             0               0              0              0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................ ... .4.....91..........  .
( -o                        os0t010  0                                                         0              0               0              0              0                                                                                      (AdPM  V    O
*~~~~06 10 833  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~991~~~~~~  001          0               0              0              0              0               ______  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............
10 11034W'91180  OS&0DE                                                                             0               0              0             .0               ___(.  8)cvt0
10 1088  8939106   000                            0              0               0              0              0                                                                              C    1810103...gqiH38l.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
P' 10         m-pw oPs9 0                                                                     DC0             0              0              00                              ____                             _____                                               oiI    iA pos
N310010 1003483-30303   01  0         0              0              0              0              0  ______   0 ______                                                                             (983 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................... 0...... 911303....
P    P          -P    P 0zL                                                   De 9o906    6                   8               91              II              81              81s  vAv m) wiwI, 0-pM                                                                              0ANv.I4IS
0010400 SI@3011301006   z 001o ______DC0                                                                                  0              0              00DEov
10 833W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9380W    001                0              0              0              0               0                                                                                      (p.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........  ....v.
*-M10 W*0AS348' PJ1  001                                                                                         0              0              0ocDEo         0                                                                ff_    ___   ____                    **O3l40
00*8310 1fl3WLlS~~~~~~~~~~~~~9~~~6l88   001            0              0               0              0              0                                                                           Mi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V)93Cv.W.p.He889.eM....J...d.... . 
88380 10 833    193983   01          0              0              0              0              0              0 ________  0                                           (sso~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n~~~,y 08j.) u94...........................................
S*I0O 10 .mlswIm-939183   801                      61              81              81              91              91              81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ...........
...............  ....
cl,  L~~~~~jc m*w-ppw.) osi                                                                               DC~~~~~~_ ___   DEqYIo.3.iq0lv3O.j
:11,11, .. ......(..1.......... ..........
I  L -    jo ~~~~~pw-ppw) ost                               DC              DC              oc              oc              DC                                                 . ...........................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v  034
L~~ P  MpOVAG-WWnPj Ogi                                      oc              oc              o__De_DE
L~~~~ 10 mpw~~~~~~~~~~~~wqmpj~~~~~_ _ I_____                                                                                                                                                                    68E8o Sow a 
Lss~~~~~~~ P____m___0___0___    ___0___    ____(od(w08.De                                                                                                    DE                                                                                     p94 83680   q.~0
L--MP                                                                                     SI              at              at              et____el                        at__                                ...... '.
(.~~jDmWv-ppv Ott                                                       De              JoJ                Oc           DC JOP     WU                       oH
cci~~~~~~~~niqizJ~joojno



Annex - 3.6
- 98 -                                 Page 1 of 1
Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Technical Assistance by Objective
(US$ '000, IDA Only)
TOTAL        1996      1997       1998      1999       2000
POLICY SUPPORT                         1,039.9      106.2    203.9      399.6       212.2      118.0
Foreign                                  489.3        53.1     97.0      182.6        98.8      57.7
Local                                    550.6        53.1    106.9     217.0       113.4       60.3
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT              2,050.8      202.7    615.0      631.2       462.4      139.5
Foreign                                  816.2       107.8    217.7     244.3       178.6       67.8
Local                                  1,234.6        94.9   397.3      386.9       283.8       71.7
PROJECT PREPARATION. &                 10,444.7   1,648.5   2,409.3    2,648.5    2,501.8    1,236.7
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
Foreign                                1,822.3      333.3    512.8      510.2       294.4      171.6
Local                                  8,622.4    1,315.2    1,896.4   2,138.3    2,207.3    1,065.1
TOTAL                                  13,535.4   1,957.5   3,228.2    3,679.3    3,176.4    1,494.1



-9                                  Annex - 3.7
Page 1 of 7
Republic of Mozambique
Health Sector Recovery Program
Economic Analysis of the Basic Package
An analysis of the basic package was carried out in two steps. First, the basis for the package was
established through calculation of the burden of disease by individual categories. Second, the cost
effectiveness of activities in the basic package to reduce the burden of disease was established through a
cost effectiveness analysis across a number of alternative interventions.
Burden of Disease
Methodology. The years of life lost from premature death were calculated using age-specific mortality
rates by disease and a life table giving life expectancy by age cohort. The age-specific mortality pattern
for Sub-Saharan Africa used in the World Bank Global Burden of Disease (GBD) exercise was adapted
to Mozambique. Key inputs that were tailored to Mozambique were the mortality from HIV
seroprevalence, maternity, malaria nutritional deficiencies, and injuries, in addition to fertility, and the
population age structure.
Results. Table 3.7A ranks the major disease categories in decreasing order of importance. The top five
categories are malaria, acute respiratory infections (ARI), diarrhea, childhood diseases, and perinatal
mortality. Together these five causes account for over 65 percent of premature mortality. Aggregated
across major disease groups, communicable diseases account for 77 percent, chronic diseases 15 percent,
and injuries for 8 percent of premature mortality. Table 3.7B gives the detailed estimates of burden of
disease by age group and sex. The pattern is consistent with the level of development and recent social
stress in Mozambique. The pattern is also consistent with the project emphasis on a basic package of
primary services.
Cost Effectiveness
Methodology. The effects of selected interventions were measured in terms of life years saved and were
calculated from estimates of effectiveness, covered population, and the burden of disease. The estimates
of effects were adapted from the literature and ongoing studies for Tanzania and the Republic of Guinea.
Intervention costs were estimated from project information as well as adaptation of previous studies.
Costs were estimated from separate line items for overhead (administration and facility costs), wages,
equipment, drugs and supplies. Detailed tables setting out the assumptions and calculations for effects
and costs are available in the project files and are summarized in Tables 3.7C through 3.7F.
Results. The last column of Tables 3.7C and E give the cost per life years saved. The table gives the
cost effectiveness of 46 alternative interventions grouped according to the top ten causes of premature
mortality. The diseases for which the most cost effective interventions exist are ARI, malaria (with the
exception of treatment for severe malaria), diarrheal disease, childhood diseases (immunizations), and
selected activities for perinatal/maternal causes and nutrition. Within each category the lowest cost
interventions are usually delivered at the lowest levels of care. This is emphasized by Tables 3.7D and F
which provide a regrouping of the cost effectiveness estimates by level of care.



Annex - 3.7
- 100 -                                             Page 2 of 7
Table 3.7A Mozambique: Disease Categories Ranked by Percent of Life Years Lost (LYL)
Total                             Female                              Male
Cause of Death      LYL            Cause of Death       LYL           Cause of Death       LYL
Malaria                   15.6     Malaria                   15.8     Malaria                   15.3
Respiratory infections    14.6     Respiratory infections    15.2     Respiratory infections    14.1
Diarrhoeal diseases       14.3     Diarrhoeal diseases       14.7     Diarrhoeal diseases        14.0
Childhood infections      12.7     Childhood infections      12.9     Childhood infections       12.5
Perinatal causes           8.0     Perinatal causes           6.9     Perinatal causes           9.1
Cardiovascular             5.3     Cardiovascular             6.1    Intentional injuries         5.2
Tuberculosis               4.6     Tuberculosis               4.5     Unintentional injuries      4.8
Intentional injuries       4.1    Intentional injuries        3.1     Tuberculosis                4.7
Unintentional injuries     3.6     Nutritional/endocrine      2.7     Cardiovascular              4.6
Nutritionalendocrine       2.5     HIV                        2.7     Nutritional/endocrine       2.3
HIV                        2.4     Unintentional injuries     2.4     HIV                        2.1
Malignant neoplasms        1.9     Maternal causes            2.3     Malignant neoplasms         1.9
Syphilis                   1.9     Syphilis                   1.9     Syphilis                    1.8
Congenital                 1.6     Malignant neoplasms        1.8     Congenital                  1.6
Digestive                  1.4     Congenital                 1.5     Digestive                   1.5
Maternal causes            1.1     Digestive                  1.4     Tropical diseases           1.1
Tropical diseases          1.1     Tropical diseases          1.1     Neuro-psychiatric           1.0
Respiratory                0.9     Respiratory                0.8     Respiratory                 1.0
Neuro-psychiatric          0.9     Neuro-psychiatric          0.8     Meningitis                  0.9
Meningitis                 0.7     Meningitis                 0.6     Genito-urinary             0.5
Genito-urinary             0.5     Genito-urinary             0.5     Diabetes mellitus          0.1
Diabetes mellitus          0.2     Diabetes mellitus          0.2     Musculo-skeletal           0.0
Musculo-skeletal           0.1     Musculo-skeletal           0.1
Total Communicaable       77.0     Total Communicaable       78.6     Total Communicaable       75.5
Total Injuries             7.8     Total Injuries             5.5     Total Injuries            10.0
Total Chronic             15.2     Total Chronic             15.9     Total Chronic             14.5
Total                    100.0     Total                    100.0     Total                    100.0



Table 3.7B  Mozambique: Percent of Life Years Lost (LYL) by Disease and Age Group
Ages 0-4              ges 5-14           Ages 15-29            Ages 30-44           Ages 45-59             Ages 60+             All Ages
Cause of       Total Female Male  Total Female Male  Total Female Male  Total Female Male  Total Female Male  Total Female Male  Total Female Male
Death         LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL   LYL
Tuberculosis           0.6    0.6    0.6    8.5    9.4    7.5   18.3   20.6   16.1   14.7   14.8   14.6   19.7   14.1   24.6    7.0    4.0   10.6   4.6    4.5    4.7
Syphilis               1.6    1.7    1.6   0.1    0.1    0.1    6.5    6.9    6.2    4.4    5.0    3.9    1.0    1.1    1.0   0.2    0.1    0.2    1.9    1.9    1.8
HIV                    1.3    1.4    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.2   11.8   14.2    9.5    8.0   10.2    5.9    1.9    1.8    1.9   0.3    0.2    0.5    2.4    2.7    2.1
Diarrhoeal diseases    19.6   20.2   19.0   10.0   10.7    9.3    1.4    1.7    1.1    0.9    1.2    0.7    0.6    0.6    0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.3   14.7   14.0
Childhood infections   16.7   17.0   16.4   14.1   14.9   13.3    0.4    0.5    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   12.7   12.9   12.5
Meningitis              0.6    0.5    0.7    2.5    1.2    3.8    0.7    0.9    0.5    0.3    0.4    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.2    0.7    0.6    0.9
Malaria               18.9   19.0   18.9   20.1   20.8   19.2    6.8    7.9    5.7    4.6    5.7    3.5    1.5    1.7    1.2   0.4    0.3    0.4   15.6   15.8   15.3
Tropical diseases      0.1    0.1    0.1    4.6    4.3    4.9    3.6    3.8    3.4    2.2    2.4    2.0    3.2    2.7    3.6    0.9    0.7    1.2    1.1    1.1    1.1
Respiratory infections    18.6   19.2   18.1   10.0   10.6    9.3    2.9    3.4    2.3    1.9    2.4    1.4    1.9    2.3    1.6   12.0   12.3   11.5   14.6   15.2   14.1
Matemal causes         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5    1.0    0.0    9.8   19.8    0.0    7.1   14.6    0.0    0.2    0.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.1    2.3    0.0
Perinatal causes       12.0   10.5   13.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.0    6.9    9.1
Total Group A         90.0   90.1   89.9   71.7   74.5   68.7   62.2   79.5   45.1   44.2   56.9   32.3   30.1   24.8   34.7   20.9   17.9  24.5   77.0   78.6   75.5
Unintentional injuries  1.9    1.9    1.9    8.3    6.2   10.6   10.7    2.0   19.3    8.8    2.8   14.5    4.3    2.0    6.3    1.5    1.9    1.0    3.6    2.4    4.8
Intentional injuries   1.3    1.4    1.2    4.4    3.7    5.2   22.4   12.8   31.7   17.1   10.0  23.8    5.1    3.9    6.1    1.4    1.5    1.4   4.1    3.1    5.2
Total Group B          3.2    3.3    3.1   12.7    9.9   15.8  33.1   14.8   51.0   25.9   12.9  38.2    9.4    5.9   12.4    2.9    3.3    2.4    7.8    5.5   10.0
Malignant neoplasms    0.1    0.2    0.1    1.3    0.1    2.5    0.5    0.5    0.4    4.6    7.2    2.2   15.0   16.7   13.6   12.3    9.6   15.4    1.9    1.8    1.9
Diabetes mellitus      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    1.0    1.5    0.6    1.3    1.6    0.9    0.2    0.2    0.1
Nulritional/endocrine  2.3    2.3    2.3    2.6    4.2    0.9    1.7    1.6    1.7    5.3    3.5    7.0    3.5    5.9    1.5    2.4    3.4    1.1    2.5    2.7    2.3
Neuro-psychiatric      0.3    0.3    0.3    4.0    3.2    4.8    0.6    0.7    0.5    1.7    1.3    2.2    1.6    0.9    2.2    1.2    1.2    1.3    0.9    0.8    1.0
Cardiovascular         0.5    0.4    0.5    2.2    2.9    1.4   0.8    1.2    0.5    9.8    9.5   10.1   27.8   31.3   24.7   50.1   55.1   44.2    5.3    6.1    4.6
Respiratory            0.6    0.5    0.6    1.6    1.1   2.1    0.3    0.4    0.1    1.2    1.3    1.0    2.7    3.4    2.0    3.2    2.6    4.0    0.9    0.8    1.0
Digestive              0.8    0.8    0.8    1.3    1.5    1.0    0.5    0.5    0.5    5.5    4.8    6.0    6.3    5.9    6.7    3.0    2.4    3.7    1.4    1.4    1.5
Genito-urinary         0.1    0.0    0.1    1.5    1.3    1.6   0.3    0.4    0.1    0.9    1.0    0.7    2.3    3.4    1.4   2.2    2.3    2.2    0.5    0.5    0.5
Musculo-skeletal       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.3    0.4    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.1    0.4    0.5    0.3    0.1    0.1    0.0
Congenital             2.1    2.0    2.3    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5    1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.6    1.5    1.6
Total Group C          6.8    6.6    7.0   15.6   15.6   15.6    4.8    5.6    3.9   29.9   30.2   29.5   60.5   69.3   52.9   76.2   78.8   73.1   15.2   15.9   14.5
Total                100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
o '



- 102-                                                  Annex -3.7
Page 4 of 7
Table 3.7C  Cost-effectiveness of Intervention by Type of Health Problem
Primary       Unit cost/ Unit cost!   Life-       S per
Description of intervention                    Benficiaries      inter-    primary     years     life year
ventions  beneficiary  saved'     saved*
1. Acute Respiratory Infections                                                    US$        US$                    USS
C              Mother's education on respiratory infections          <5              0.26         0.13     0.32          0.40
I               IFreatment of ch ildren with pneumonia               <5               1.19        1.19     6.46          0.18
11             Treatment of children with pneumonia                  <5               1.27        1.27     6.46          0.20
if             Treatment of adults and children over five            >5               1.76        1.76     0.74          2.38
IlI/V          T reatment of children with pneumonia                 <5               1.36        1.36     9.04          0.15
III/IV         Treatment of adults and children over five            >5               1.86        1.86     1.03          1.80
IIIAV          Treatment of children with severe pneumonia (IP)      <5             20.34       20.34     12.66          1.61
III/IV         Treatment of adults with severe pneumonia (IP)        >5             20.34       20.34      3.10          6.57
2. Malaria
I              Treatment of children with malaria                    <5              0.83        0.83      3.88          0.21
11             Treatment of children with malaria                    <5               1.62        1.62     3.88          0.42
11             Treatment of children with severe malaria             <5              17.38       17.38     3.88          4.49
III/IV         Treatment of children with malaria                    <5              4.09        4.09      5.43          0.75
III/IV         Treatment of children with severe malaria             <5             20.05       20.05      5.43          3.70
C              Impregnated bednets, per household                    <5              8.18        4.09      2.26          1.81
3. Diarrhoeal diseases
C              Construction of pit latrines, per household           <5               7.19        1.80     5.43          0.33
C              Safe water supply, per household                      <5              13.50        3.38     5.43          0.62
I              Rehydration therapy                                   <5               1.18        1.18     7.75          0.15
11             Rehydration therapy                                   <5               1.45        1.45     7.75          0.19
IIII/V         Rehydrationtherapy                                    <5               1.64        1.64    10.85          0.15
IIIAV          Hospital treatment of severe cases                    <5             25.86       25.86     12.66          2.04
4. Childhood Infections
I              EPI immunization                                      <5              13.26       13.26    12.27          1.08
11             Treatment ofmeasles complications                   <5 /d            29.38       29.38     10.05          2.92
IlIV           Treatment of measles complications                  <5 /d            31.73       31.73     14.07          2.26
5. Cardiovascular Diseases
C              Tobacco legislation/warning                   10% total population  15,87302   0.009920     0.03          0.31
11             Hypertensive medication and consultation             >45             25.22       25.22      2.43         10.36
11             Use of aspirin in pre-existing CVD                   >45             18.95        18.95     0.87         21.80
IIIAIV         Treatment of Rheumatic Fever                         <I5             17.24        17.24     2.58          6.68
IIIAV          Treatment of stroke or heart attack                  >45            135.58      135.58      0.70        194.89
6. Perinatal/Maternal Causes
C              Outreach family planning services                women >15 +          7.28        7.28      6.83          1.07
newborns at risk
I              TBA prenatal and delivery care                 newboms, mothers      19.19       19.19      4.05          4.74
II             Normal prenatal and delivery care at health ctrs    newboms, mothers  37.38      37.38      5.06          7.38
11             Hospital treatment of complications            newboms, mothers      64.65       64.65      8.86          7.30
Illv         Normal prenatal and delivery care at hospitals  newboms, mothers     38.65       38.65      8.86          4.36
IIIA/V         Hospital treatment of complications            newboms, mothers      70.01       70.01     12.40          5.65
7. Tuberculosis
11             Modified short-course treatment                    TB cases         166.48      166.48      7.71         21.59
IIIA/V         In-hospital short-course treatment                 TB cases         312.12      312.12     10.80         28.91
8. Injuries (intentional and unintentional)
If             Hospital treatment for severe injury            serious injuries    209.50      209.50      3.27         64.08
III/IV         Hospital treatment for severe injury            serious injuries    217.72      217.72      4.58         47.57
9. Nutrition/feeding program
C              School-based vitamin A/iodine/deworming prgrm    school age, 5-14      1.37        1.37    12.67          0.11
I              Growth surveillance and treatment of mild PCM         <5              5.89        5.89      3.88          1.52
11             Hospital treatment of severe PCM              <5 severely malnour.    40.58      40.58      5.17          7.85
III/V         Hospital treatment of severe PCM              <5 severely malnour.    46.45      46.45      7.23          6.42
10. HWV/AIDS
C              AIDS education program                          >15, but all ages     0.49        0.24      0.15          1.67
C              Condom distribution for general public (per   94% >15 AIDS, all      13.06        6.53      6.04          1.08
couple)                                           syphil. /e
11             Screening blood for transfusion                6% of>15 AIDS        23.58       23.58     10.30          2.29
case/s
11             Treatment of STDs                                    >15             10.87        10.87     2.71          4.01
IIIIV         Screening blood for transfusion                AIDS from blood       23.59       23.59     14.42          1.64
transf
IIIAV          Treatment of STDs                                    >15              14.96       14.96     3 80          3.94
II/IAV         Treatment of AIDS patients                       AIDS patients      126.42       126.42    n/a         n/a
*This is the [cost per] life year saved for those treated (i.e. nor taking into account difficulty of access to a health unit).
Level of Care:
C= Community-based
I= Primary
11 = Secondary
IJJ/IV = Teniary and quaternary



Annex - 3.7
-103-                                        Page 5 of 7
Table 3.7D  Cost-effectiveness of interventions by_Referral Level
Unit cost  Unit cost    Life-    $ per
per        per      years  life year
Description of intervention                   Target population        interv.   beneficiary  saved    saved*
USS        USS                USS
1. Community-based interventions
ARI           Mother's education on respiratory infections  <5, two infants per mother     0.26        0.13     0 32     0.40
CV            Tobacco legislation/waming: national program     10% total population      15,873      0.010      0.03     0.31
DD            Construction of pit latrines, per household             <5                   7.19        1.80     5.43     0.33
DD            Safe water supply, per household                        <5                  13.50        3.38     5.43     0.62
HIV           AIDS education program                         > 15, but all ages affected   0.49        0.24     0.15     1.67
HIV           Condom distribution for general public (per   94% >15 AIDS, all syphil.     13.06        6.53     6.04     1.08
couple)
MAL           Impregnated bednets, per household                      <5                   8.18       4.09      2.26     1.81
NF            School-based vitamin A/iodine/deworming           school age, 5-14           1.37        1.37    12.67     0.11
program
PM            Outreach family planning services           women > 15 + newboms at risk     7.28        7.28     6.83     1.07
2. Primary level
ARI           Treatment of children with pneumonia                    <5                   1.19        1.19     6.46     0.18
Cl            EPI immunization                                        <5                  13.26       13.26    12.27     1.08
DD            Rehydration therapy                                     <5                   1.18        1.18     7.75     0.15
MAL           Treatment of children with malaria                      <5                   0.83       0.83      3.88     0.21
NF            Growth surveillance and treatment of mild PCM           <5                   5.89       5.89      3.88     1.52
PM            TBA prenatal and delivery care                   newboms, mothers           19.19       19.19     4.05     4.74
3. Secondary level
ARI           Treatment of children with pneumonia                    <5                   1.27        1.27     6.46     0.20
ARI           Treatment of adults and children over five              >5                   1.76        1.76     0.74     2.38
CI            Treatment of measles complications                    <5 /d                 29.38      29.38    10.05      2.92
CV            Hypertensive medication and consultation               >45                  25.22      25.22      2.43    10.36
CV            Use of aspirin in pre-existing CVD                     >45                  18.95       18.95     0.87    21.80
DD            Rehydration therapy                                     <5                   1.45        1.45     7.75     0.19
HIV           Screening blood for transfusion                 6% of > 15 AIDS cases       23.58      23.58    10.30      2.29
HIV           Treatment of STDs                                      >15                  10.87       10.87     2.71     4.01
INJ           Hospital treatment for severe injury              serious injuries         209.50     209.50      3.27    64.08
MAL           Treatment of children with malaria                      <5                   1.62        1.62     3.88     0.42
MAL           Treatment of children with severe malaria               <5                  17.38       17.38     3.88     4.49
NF            Hospital treatment of severe PCM                <5 severely malnour.        40.58      40.58      5.17     7.85
PM            Normal prenatal and delivery care at health centers  newboms, mothers       37.38      37.38      5.06     7.38
PM            Hospital treatment of complications              newboms, mothers           64.65      64.65      8.86     7.30
TB            Modified short-course treatment                      TB cases              166.48      166.48     7.71    21.59
4. Tertiary/quaternary care
ARI           Treatment of children with pneumonia                    <5                   1.36        1.36     9.04     0.15
ARI           Treatment of adults and children over five              >5                   1.86        1.86     1.03     1.80
ARI           Treatment of children with severe pneumonia (IP)        <5                  20.34      20.34    12.66      1.61
ARI           Treatment of adults with severe pneumonia (IP)          >5                  20.34      20.34      3.10     6.57
CI            Treatment of measles complications                     <5 /d                31.73      31.73    14.07      2.26
CV            Treatment of Rheumatic Fever                           <15                  17.24       17.24     2.58     6.68
CV            Treatment of stroke or heart attack                    >45                 135.58      135.58     0.70   194.89
DD            Rehydration therapy                                     <5                   1.64        1.64    10.85     0.15
DD            Hospital treatment of severe cases                      <5                  25.86      25.86    12.66      2.04
HIV           Screening blood for transfusion                AIDS from blood transf       23.59      23.59    14.42      1.64
HIV           Treatment of STDs                                      >15                  14.96       14.96     3.80     3.94
HIV           Treatment of AIDS patients                         AIDS patients           126.42      126.42    n/a     n/a
INJ           Hospital treatment for severe injury              serious injuries         217.72     217.72      4.58    47.57
MAL           Treatment of children with malaria                      <5                   4.09       4.09      5.43     0.75
MAL           Treatment of children with severe malaria               <5                  20.05      20.05      5.43     3.70
NF            Hospital treatment of severe PCM                <5 severely malnour.        46.45      46.45      7.23     6.42
PM            Normal prenatal and delivery care at hospitals   newboms, mothers           38.65      38.65      8.86     4.36
PM            Hospital treatment of complications              newboms, mothers           70.01      70.01     12.40     5.65
TB            In-hospital short-course treatment                   TB cases              312.12     312.12     10.80    28.91
* Overall [cost per] life year saved (i.e. taking into account difficulty of acces to a health unit).



- 104 -                                                   Annex - 3.7
Page 6 of 7
Table 3.7E  Cost-effectiveness of Intervention b  Type of Health Problem
Primary       Unit cost/  Unit cost/   Life-        S per
Description of intervention                     Benficiaries       inter-    primary      years     life year
ventions  beneficiary   saved*     savcd*
1. Acute Respiratory  nrections   $nfections                                               
C               Mother's education on respiratory infections           <5                0.26        0.13      0.02           8.00
I               Treatment of children with pneumonia                   <5                1.19        1.19      1.62           0.74
11              Treatmcnt of children with pneumonia                   <5                I 27        I 27      1.62           0.78
11              Treatment of adults and children over five             >5                I 76        1.76      0 18           9.54
IIIIV           I'reatment of children with pneumonia                  <5                1.36        1.36      1.90           0.72
III/IV          Treatment of adults and children over five             >5                1.86        1.86      0.22           8.56
III/IV          Treatment of children with severe pneumonia (IP)       <5              20.34        20.34      2.66           7.65
IIIAV           Treatment of adults with severe pneumonia (IP)         >5              20.34        20.34      0.65         31.27
2. Mlalaria
I               Treatment of children with malaria                     <5               0.83         0.83      1.36           0.61
11              Treatment of children with malaria                     <5                1.62        1.62      0.97           1.67
11              Treatment of children with severe malaria              <5               17.38       17.38      0.97          17.94
III/IV          Treatment of children with malaria                     <5               4.09         4.09      1.14           3.59
IIIIV          Treatment of children with severe malaria              <5              20.05        20.05      1.14          17.60
C               Impregnated bednets, per household                      <5               8.18        4.09      0.09          45.25
3. Diarrhoeal diseases
C               Construction of pit latrines, per household            <5                7.19        1.80      0.43           4.14
C               Safe water supply, per household                       <5               13.50        3.38      0.87           3.89
I               Rehydration therapy                                    <5                1.18        1.18      2.71           0.43
11              Rehydration therapy                                    <5                1.45        1.45      1.94           0.75
III/IV          Rehydration therapy                                    <5                1.64        1.64      2.28           0.72
IIIAV            lospital treatment of severe cases                    <5              25.86        25.86      2.66           9.72
4. Childhood Infections
I               EPI immunization                                       <5               13.26       13.26      4.91           2.70
11              Treatment of measles complications                   -5 /d             29.38        29.38      2.51          11.70
IIr/IV          Treatmentofmeasles complications                      <5 /d            31.73        31.73      2.11          15.04
5. Cardiovascular Diseases
C               Tobacco legislation/warning                    10% total population  15,873.02    0.009920     0.00           3.05
11              Hypertensive medication and consultation               >45             25.22        25.22      0.37         69.04
11              Use of aspirin in pre-existing CVD                     >45             18.95        18.95      0.22         87.18
III/IV          Treatment of Rheumatic Fever                           <I5             17.24        17.24      0.23         74.24
IIIAV           Treatment ofstroke or heart attack                     >45            135.58       135.58      0.06       2165.42
6. Perinatal/NMaternal Causes
C               Outreach family planning services                 women > 15             7.2 8       7.28      0.34         21.31
newboms at risk
I               TBA prenatal and delivery care                  newboms, mothers       19.19        19 19      0.61         31.60
11              Normal prenatal and delivery care at health ctrs  newboms, mothers     37.38        37.38      0.63          59.07
11              Hospital treatment of complications             newborns, mothers      64.65        64.65      0.13        486.53
III/IV          Normal prenatal and delivery care at hospitals  newboms, mothers       38.65        38.65      0.27        145.45
III/IV          Hospital treatment of complications             newborns. mothers      70.01        70.01      0.11        627.28
7. Tuberculosis
11              Modified short-course treatment                     TB cases          1 66.48      166.48      2.70         61.68
III/IV          In-hospital short-course treatment                  TB cases          3 12.12      312.12      0.97        321.22
8. Injuries (intentional and unintentional)
11              Hospital treatment for severe injury             serious injuries     209.50       209.50      0.65        320.41
IIIAV           Hospital treatment for severe injury             serious injuries     217.72       217.72      1.10        198.21
9. Nutrition/feeding program
C               School-based vitamin A/iodine/deworming prgrm    school age, 5-14        1.37        1.37      0.63           2.17
I               Growth surveillance and treatment of mild PCM          <5               5 89         5.89      0.97          6.08
11              Hospital treatment of severe PCM               <5 severely malnour.    40.58        40.58      0.26        157.07
IIIAIV          Hospital treatment of severe PCM               <5 severely malnour.    46.45        46.45      0.33        142.70
tO. HIVIAIDS
C               AIDS education program                           > 15, but a[l ages     0.49         0.24      0.03          8.36
C               Condom distribution for general public (per     94% >15 AIDS, all      13.06         6.53      0.60          10.82
couple)                                             syphil. /e
11              Screening blood for transfusion                  6%of>15 AIDS          23.58        23.58      1.55          15.26
case/s
11              Treatment of STDs                                      >15              10.87       10.87      0.54         20.05
IIIAV           Screening blood for transfusion                 AIDS from blood        23.59        23.59      1.30          18.17
transf
IIIAV           Treatment of STDs                                      >15              14.96       14.96      0.57         26.28
III,qV          Treatment of AIDS patients                        AIDS patients       126.42       126.42    n/a         n/a
This is the [cost per] life year saved for those treated (i.e. not taking into account difficulty of access to a health unit).
Level of Care:
C= Community-based
I= Primary
11  Secondary
II/IV = Tertiary and quatemary



-105 -                                        Annex -3.7
Page 7 of 7
Table 3.7F  Cost-effectiveness of interventions by Referral Level
l                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unit cost |Unit cost    Life-    S pern
1   per   T    per       years  life year
Description of intervention                    Target population       interv.   beneficiary  saved*   saved*
USS        USS                 US$
1. Community-based interventions
ARI           Mother's education on respiratory infections   <5, two infants per mother     0.26        0.13     0.02      8.00
CV            Tobacco legislation/waming: national program     10% total population       15,873       0.010     0.00      3.05
DD            Construction of pit latrines, per household              <5                   7.19        1.80     0.43      4.14
DD            Safe water supply, per household                         <5                  13.50        3.38     0.87      3.89
WHV           AIDS education program                          >15, but all ages affected    0.49        0.24      0.03     8.36
HIV           Condom distribution for general public (per    94% >15 AIDS, all syphil.     13.06        6.53      0.60    10.82
couple)
MAL           Impregnated bednets, per household                       <5                   8.18        4.09      0.09    45.25
NF             School-based vitamin Aliodine/deworming           sciool age, 5-14            1.37       1.37      0.63     2.17
program
PM            Outreach family planning services            women >15 + newboms at risk      7.28        7.28      0.34    21.31
2. Primary level
ARI           Treatmentofchildren with pneumonia                       <5                    1.19       1.19      1.62     0.74
Cl            EPI immunization                                         <5                   13.26      13.26      4.91     2.70
DD            Rehydration therapy                                      <5                    1.18       1.18      2.71     0.43
MAL           Treatment of children with malaria                       <5                   0.83        0.83      1.36     0.61
NF            Growth surveillance and treatment of mild PCM            <5                   5.89        5.89      0.97     6.08
PM            TBA prenatal and delivery care                    newboms, mothers           19.19       19.19      0.61    31.60
3. Secondary level
ARI           Treatment of children with pneumonia                     <5                   1.27        1.27      1.62     0.78
ARI           Treatment of adults and children over five               >5                    1.76       1.76     0.18      9.54
Cl            Treatment of measles complications                     <5 /d                 29.38       29.38     2.51     11.70
CV            Hypertensive medication and consultation                >45                  25.22       25.22     0.37    69.04
CV            Use of aspirin in pre-existing CVD                      >45                  18.95       18.95     0.22    87.18
DD            Rehydration therapy                                      <5                   1.45        1.45      1.94     0.75
HIV           Screening blood for transfusion                 6%of>15 AIDS cases           23.58       23.58      1.55    15.26
HIV           Treatment of STDs                                       >15                  10.87       10.87     0.54    20.05
INJ           Hospital treatment for severe injury               serious injuries         209.50      209.50     0.65   320.41
MAL           Treatment of children with malaria                       <5                   1.62        1.62     0.97      1.67
MAL           Treatment of children with severe malaria                <5                  17.38       17.38     0.97    17.94
NF             Hospital treatment of severe PCM                <5 severely malnour.        40.58       40.58      0.26   157.07
PM            Normal prenatal and delivery care at health centers  newborns, mothers       37.38       37.38     0.63    59.07
PM            Hospital treatment of complications               newboms, mothers           64.65       64.65     0.13   486.53
TB            Modified short-course treatment                       TB cases              166.48      166.48     2.70    61.68
4. Tertiary/quaternary care
ARI           Treatment of children with pneumonia                     <5                   1.36        1.36      1.90     0.72
ARI           Treatment of adults and children over five               >5                    1.86       1.86     0.22      8.56
ARI           Treatment of children with severe pneumonia (IP)         <5                  20.34       20.34     2.66      7.65
ARI           Treatment of adults with severe pneumonia (IP)           >5                  20.34       20.34     0.65    31.27
Cl            Treatment of measles complications                      <5 /d                31.73       31.73     2.11     15.04
CV            Treatment of Rheumatic Fever                            <15                  17.24       17.24     0.23    74.24
CV            Treatment of stroke or heart attack                     >45                 135.58      135.58     0.06  2165.42
DD            Rehydration therapy                                      <5                    1.64       1.64     2.28      0.72
DD            Hospital treatment of severe cases                       <5                  25.86       25.86     2.66      9.72
HV            Screening blood for transfusion                 AIDS from blood transf       23.59       23.59      1.30    18.17
HIV           Treatment of STDs                                       >15                  14.96       14.96     0.57    26.28
HIV           Treatment of AIDS patients                          AIDS patients           126.42      126.42    n/a      n/a
INJ           Hospital treatment for severe injury               serious injuries         217.72      217.72      1.10   198.21
MAL           Treatment of children with malaria                       <5                   4.09        4.09      1.14     3.59
MAL           Treatment of children with severe malaria                <5                  20.05       20.05      1.14    17.60
NF            Hospital treatment of severe PCM                 <5 severely malnour.        46.45       46.45      0.33   142.70
PM            Normal prenatal and delivery care at hospitals    newboms, mothers           38.65       38.65      0.27   145.45
PM            Hospital treatment of complications               newboms, mothers           70.01       70.01      0.11   627.28
TB            In-hospital short-course treatment                    TB cases              312.12      312.12      0.97   321.22
* Overall [cost per] life year saved (i.e. taking into account difficulty of access to a health unit).



- 106-
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
HEALTH SECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROGRAM WORKING FILE
1. Processing Documentation
1.1    FEPS
1.2    Authorization memoranda
1.3    SAR/MOP/DCA
1.4    Peer and Other Comments
1.5    Other Processing Documentation
2. Program Implementation Manual
3. Strategy and Historic Documents
3.1    Country Strategy
3.2    Health Sector Strategy
3.3    Plan for Human Resources Development
3.4    Manual for Rural Health Development Fund
3.5    Survey of NGOs in Mozambique
3.6    Operational Plan for Cost Recovery
3.7    Health Manpower Development Plan
3.8    Economic Analysis of Health Program
4. Feasibility and Detailed Design Studies
5. Subsector Financing Proposals for:
5.1    Health Facilities Development
5.2    Rural Health Development Fund
5.3    Laboratories Strengthening
5.4    Pharm. & Med. Supplies Program Stabilization
5.5    National Maintenance Program
5.6    Supply system Improvement
5.7    Provincial Health Mgmt. Improvement
5.8    Health Info. System Improvement
5.9    Program Management
5.10   H.M.D. Plan Implementation
5.11   Training Capacity Improvement
5.12   In-Service Training Improvement
5.13   Faculty of Medicine



IBRD 26934
CAGoLt S     4      M*S    \          t                        TANZANIA  NA \IA
ANGOLA  COMORON                         TANZANIA                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Palma
,NMB;    .9*           '    \'r                                 n r -                   Muedcl
FWAZIIAND
I'  AFRICA
)MALAWI.,   -.                                                  PEMBA
MALAWI    I,  IrNGA                                    M ontieCp)ue z  .   +
ZAMBIA                Lilongw\
Nacala
, AMPULA        Ma t;q; 4tcombique
_ | | Songk Qf ; 2 Molocue    -
, C r~~TETE \Ei
.    . .......
IJtl       Mocuboc
To Horore                       \
Harare                   h i               Co a
QUELIMANE
MOZAMBIQUE
ZIMBABWE      A  Gorongoso                                     HEALTH SECTOR
RECOVERY PROGRAM
XCHiMOIM1
BEIRA                          PAVED ROADS
1 i      %                           -.--  RAILROADS
<A                                   4% *    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
j                   <                                t    OTHER AIRPORTS
To Rudenga                                                             PORTS OF REGIONAL IMPORTANCE
A //                             sXLOCAL PORTS
0    SELECTED TOWNS
(@j   PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITALS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
(INHAMBANE           -  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
K    M ass'gir                      4
SOUTHA
AFRICA              7
0       100      200        390
)   ' 0   .   XAI-XAI                                      KILOMETERS
: .4                                                             AT A tif*!yUTO  sh- hs mop do Tct TI)', o- Ahb pAt of The Word RTkf GouAp,
SWAZILAN Ce
/ babane
V.-]                                                                      _     _ _ __1
1I/7s/1995 E i1EITj     3 4cx      19 13S1 flSk  F|









T H AI T'I
Rcp ir -   N r X  \1 - -  > 4 -73    ECM D L
Type:  -AE



