CREDIT NUMBER 2788 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Recovery Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated             &    ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2788 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     (9     , 1995, between REPUBLIC
OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received a letter, dated October 20, 1995, from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies, designed to strengthen
the performance of the Borrower's health sector (the Letter), and to implement the
Borrower's National Health Strategy (HS) (the Letter and the HS are collectively referred
to as the. Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
(C)    the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Bank
(AfDB), the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), the European Union
(EU), the Finnish Liternational Development Agency (FINNIDA), the government of Italy
(Italy), the government of the Netherlands (the Netherlands), the Norwegian Agency for
International Development (NORAD), the OPEC Fund for International Development
(OPEC Fund), the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), the United Nations World
Food Program (UNWFP), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), and the World Health
Organization (WHO), loans and grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to
approximately one hundred forty million four hundred thousand dollars ($140,400,000),
during the period 1996-2000, to assist in financing the Program on the terms and
conditions set forth in the respective loan and grant agreements (the Cofinancing
Agreements) to be entered respectively between the Borrower and AfDB, DANIDA, the
EU, FINNIDA, Italy, the Netherlands, NORAD, OPEC Fund, SDC, UNWFP, UNICEF,
USAID and WHO;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "BM" means Banco de Mocambigue, the central bank of the Borrower;
(b)    "CC" means Conselho Consultivo, the Ministry of Health Advisory Board,
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)    "DNPC" means Direccao National de Planificacao e Cooperaao, the
National Directorate of Planning and Cooperation of MOH (as hereinafter defined);
(d)    "DNS" means the Direcgao Nacional de S   the National Directorate
of Health within MOH;
(e)    "First Project Year" means the twelve-month period beginning from the
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter and "Project Year" or "PY" means
any twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year or the end of
subsequent Project Years.


﻿-3-
(f)    "GACOPI" means Gabinete de Coordenacao de Projectos de Investimento,
a unit within DNPC in charge of coordinating all main investment programs of the health
sector;
(g)    "HDF" means the Rural Health Development Fund referred to in Part A.2
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(h)    "HMDP" means the Health Manpower Development Plan of the Borrower;
(i)    "Implementation Manual" means the manual adopted by the Borrower and
to be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project, as the same may be
amended from time to tine, in consultation, and with the approval of the Association, and
such term includes any schedules to the Implementation Manual;
(j)    "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(k)    "MPF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Finance;
(1)    "NEPs" means Nucleos de Estatistica e Planificacao. the Statistical and
Planning Units of the Provincial Directorates of Health of MOH; and
(in)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to sixty six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 66,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2006 and ending August 15, 2035.


﻿-5-
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, management and health practices, and in accordance with the
Implementation Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-6-
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than January 31, 1997, develop
guidelines and plans of operations, satisfactory to the Association, for: (a) medical waste
disposal, and (b) the maintenance of equipment, machinery and other property included
in its health and training facilities; and (ii) promptly, thereafter, implement such guidelines
and plans of operations.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1997, develop a
strategy and a plan of operation, satisfactory to the Association, for Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) control; and (ii) promptly, thereafter implement such
strategy and plan of operation.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1997, develop a
strategy and plan of operation for reproductive health, and carry out a fertility and
contraceptive prevalence survey. The Borrower shall, not later than 30 days after the
preparation of the survey report, furnish to the Association, the results of the said survey,
for its comments.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-8-
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a) As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)    (i)    Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant made
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or (B) any such
loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii)   Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement..


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (bXi)(B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (bXii) of
that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Banco de Mocambique of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Gabinete do Governador
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O.Box 423
Maputo, Mozambique
Cable address:                    Telex:
MOBANCO                    6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
Facsimile:                        29178


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                        kA~Z         xJ0" '
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Categog                   SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                         100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a)   Under Part A.2            5,760,000
of the Project
(b)   Other                     8,310,000
(2) Goods (including                10,390,000          100% of foreign
equipment, furniture                                expenditures
and vehicles)                                       100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of
other local
expenditures
(3) Pharmaceuticals                 12,070,000          100% of foreign
and medical                                         expenditures and
supplies                                            90% of local
expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(4) Operating Costs                  5,290,000           90% in PY 1 and 2
and 70% thereafter
(5) Consultants' services            8,650,000           100%
(6) Training                        10,460,000           100%
(7) Unallocated
TOTAL                     66,300,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "operating costs" means expenditures incurred under the Project
on account of office supplies, medical kits, utilities, fuel and vehicle maintenance, travel
allowances and travel-related costs (including per diem), and consumables (including
communication costs).
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)    payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (a), unless:


﻿- 14 -
(i)     the Borrower has established and staffed the Maintenance and
Construction Monitoring Units, referred to in paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in at least two of the provincial
directorates of health; and
(ii)    the Borrower has finalized and furnished to the Association a
systematic client consultation strategy, satisfactory to the
Association, aimed at assessing and improving the quality of
services provided by MOH.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works under contracts not
exceeding $500,000 equivalent, and for goods and services under contracts not exceeding
$100,000, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase the coverage and improve the
quality of health services in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) strengthen the health sector
institutions, support services and health management system; and (iii) develop human
resources capacity in the health sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof,
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Health Services Delivery
1.     Health Facilities Development
Construction, rehabilitation, and upgrading of the infrastructure and equipment of
the health sector including the rehabilitation of three rural hospitals at Mueda, Gurue and
Buzi respectively, and construction of housing units for hospital staff including acquisition
of medical and hospital equipment, furniture and vehicles.
2.     Health Development Fund
(a)    Establishment and operation of the HDF;
(b)    Rehabilitation and construction of health centers and health-posts
including water supply and sanitation facilities;
(c)    construction of housing units for health staff; and
(d)    acquisition of medical equipment, furniture, solar panels and related
lighting, cold chain equipment, and vehicles including bicycles and motorcycles.
3.     Laboratory Strengthening
Rehabilitation of laboratory facilities in first and second level health units (except
those included in the rehabilitation and construction referred to in Parts A. 1 and A.2 of
this Schedule), including acquisition of equipment and furniture.


﻿- 16 -
4.     Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies
Acquisition of pharmaceutical products, laboratory re-agents, materials and
medical supplies including provision of related procurement and distribution services.
5.     National Maintenance Program
(a)    Acquisition of tools and shop equipment for the strengthening of the
national and regional maintenance units, and establishment of provincial units including
acquisition of spare parts and materials therefor.
(b)    organization of pre-service training, on-the-job training, seminars and
supervision activities; and
(c)    acquisition of vehicles and equipment to support the national maintenance
program.
6.     Strengthening of the General Province Operations
Strengthening the operations of the provincial authorities in the territory of the
Borrower through the provision of general maintenance, pharmaceutical and medical
supplies not being procured at the central level and provided through the Borrower's
national programs, and other resources required for such provincial operations.
Part B: Institutional SuRRort
1.     SupplY System Improvement
(a)    Preparation/development of a standard list of medical supplies in common
use, preparation/development of a stock-control system for use at health units at the
district and provincial levels, and preparation of a stock-holding policy for provincial
health directorates;
(b)    construction of supply infrastructure, including warehouses for medical
supplies and pharmaceutical products, in Pemba and Lichinga, and upgrading of a
pharmaceutical warehouse in Beira; and
(c)    acquisition of motor vehicles, forklifts and palette racks, and other
equipment necessary for the improvement of the supply system.


﻿- 17 -
2.     Provincial Health Management Improvement
(a)    Preparation of plans of actions focusing on personnel management
improvement, public budget and external aid management, development of a sectoral
financial information system, consolidation of a cost recovery mechanism and
development and installation of an adapted accounting plan for health units;
(b)    acquisition of computers, equipment, furniture and supplies for central and
provincial levels required to improve personnel and financial management; and
(c)    repair, upgrading and equipping of the facilities of the provincial health
directorates.
3.     Information System Improvement
(a)    Development, pilot testing and installation of an information system for
provincial hospitals and strengthening of data collection and processing at all levels of the
health system;
(b)    acquisition of computer equipment and furniture for the statistics units of
the hospitals and installation of a pilot data transfer system using computer networking
system; and
(c)    acquisition of materials, supplies, and equipment for the improvement of
the information system.
4.     Program Management
(a)    Provision of technical advisory services to the national directorates of
MOH;
(b)    provision of technical advisory services to the NEPs;
(c)    acquisition of vehicles, equipment and furniture to strengthen the
Construction and Maintenance Units at the NEPs;
(d)    carrying out of studies to support policy development within MOH;
(e)    carrying out monitoring and evaluation activities; and


﻿- 18 -
(f)    preparation of tender documents and terms of reference for activities to
be undertaken by MOH in the future.
Part C: Human Resources Development
1.    Implementation of HMDP
Carrying out of training courses including course related travel allowances and
fellowships and rural practice activities for the benefit of personnel at MOH.
2.     Training Capacity Improvement
(a)    Rehabilitation and extension of training institutes including the institutes
in Maputo, Beira, and Nampula and training centers in Chicumbane and Chicuque; and
(b)    acquisition of furniture, vehicles, training materials and equipment for all
health training institutes and centers.
3.     In-Service Training Improvement
Carrying out of in-service training courses including preparation, development and
acquisition of training materials and provision of financial support for the travel and
accommodation of training participants.
4.     Strengthening of the Faculty of Medicine
(a)    acquisition of computer equipment and textbooks for both faculty and
students;
(b)    reorganization of the library at the Faculty of Medicine; and
(c)    organization of rural internship programs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B.
(a)    Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to
be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)    Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 20 -
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,400,000 equivalent and works estimated to cost less
than $500,000 equivalent per contract and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Shoping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.     Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature, text books, learning materials, spare
parts and pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, and costing $5,900,000 equivalent or less
in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.     Community Participation
Works under Part A.2 of the Project costing $60,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $11,200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate shall be procured in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
I of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.


﻿- 21 -
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     MOH will have the overall responsibility for management of the Project. The
Director of DNPC will be responsible for coordinating and supervising Project
implementation. The Director will liaise with the various agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project, MPF, BM and the cofinanciers referred to in Recital (C)
of the Preamble to this Agreement. Assisted by a Program Coordinator, the Director will
meet regularly with implementing agencies and will monitor progress, keep program
accounts, and prepare reports as and when required.
2.     The National Directorate of Health will be responsible, at the central level, for the
implementation of Part A of the Project. DNPC will be responsible for the overall
coordination of Part B of the Project and will implement directly Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4
of the Project. Part B. 1 of the Project will be implemented by the Supplies Directorate
of MOH. The Directorate of Human Resources of MOH will be responsible for the
implementation of Part C of the Project.
3.     The CC shall meet once every three months to advise on monitoring and
coordination of all project activities and to resolve any issues impeding achievement of
the Project objectives.
4.     The Provincial Maintenance and Construction Monitoring Units (PMCMU) of the
Provincial directorates of health will be responsible for the day-to-day management and
monitoring of construction activities, particularly those related to the Rural Health
Development Fund. These units will report to the Provincial Directors of Health and shall
consist, inter alia, of one engineer and one quantity surveyor or a draftsman.
5.     GACOPI will be responsible for the technical coordination of the work of the
Provincial Maintenance and Construction Units and will be in charge of preparation of
norms and standards for the construction and maintenance of infrastructure and of
approval of designs and large contracts, including the management of financial accounts
and procurement processes.
6.     Training of health staff under the Project will be organized at the health training
institutes and centers in each of the provinces under contracts between the individual
institutes and the Directorate of Human Resources. Training of other staff in the areas,
inter alia, of accounting, finance, or computer operations will be organized by other
existing institutions.


﻿-23-
7.     Without limitation to the provision of paragraph 10 (c) of this Schedule, MOH
will prepare semi-annual reports, in form and substance acceptable to the Association,
tabulating, and graphically displaying physical and financial progress as well as outputs
and outcomes achieved during the previous semester and accumulated against agreed
targets, and highlighting the problems and solutions proposed. These reports will be
furnished to the Association not later than March 31 of each year and will be tabled for
discussions by the CC.
8.     Each year, MOH will update its five-year rolling plan and the detailed
implementation program for the next three years, and will prepare the investment and
recurrent budgets for the next year. The rolling plan and the implementation program will
identify priorities, in the context of the Borrower's health strategy. MOH's departments
and the donors involved in the health sector will participate in an annual review
workshops. MOH will take into account the findings of the workshops and present a
revised program of actions. Not later than one month prior to the annual review, MOH
will present to the Association a report on implementation of the Health Sector Program.
9.    In order to ensure efficiency and timeliness in the implementation of the Project,
the Borrower shall take all necessary administrative and regulatory measures to enable
specifically designated MOH officials to sign all contracts relating to the implementation
of the Project below the value of $250,000.
10.    (a)    The Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a
comprehensive annual project implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting progress
toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to project implementation; and
(iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and corresponding programs to
reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Program in the prior years and
ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the Program.
(b)    The annual review referred to in (a) above shall be conducted in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association and shall include, inter alia: (i)
the Borrower's recurrent expenditure per capita to the health sector; (ii) the Borrower's
equity index from the operational planning exercise; (iii) the proportion of health posts
staffed with non-trained personnel; (iv) the proportion of first level health facilities
properly stocked with essential drug program kits; (v) the coverage of DPT third dose
vaccination; (vi) the infant mortality rate; (vii) the maternal mortality rate; and (viii) the
ratio of client satisfaction with services per level of facility.


﻿- 24 -
(c)    The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review referred
to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in Project
implementation.
(d)    Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall carry out
recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
11.    The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association,
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on or about May 30, 1998, a report integrating the results of
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and
(c)    review with the Association, by June 30, 1998, or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above and, promptly
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 6 set forth in
the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the tenn "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in icspect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to six
million five hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Assoriation has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿-26-
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or


﻿- 27 -
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
-Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


