Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23258
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36820; SCL-3682A; SCPD-3682S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR A
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
12/04/2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ringgit (RM)
RMI.00 = US$ 0.26
US$ 1.00 = 3.8 RM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   Asian Development Bank
AIDS  Acquired hnimunodeficiency Syndrome
DOC   Department of Chemistry, Ministry of Science,
Technology and Environment
GNP   Gross National Product
GOM   Government of Malaysia
HIV   Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IMR   Infant Mortality Rate
JKR   Jabatan Kerja Raya (Public Works Department)
LCB   Local Competitive Bidding
MMR  Maternal Mortality Rate
MOH  Ministry of Health
NBC   National Blood Transfusion Services Center
PIC    Project Implementation Committee
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
SAR   Staff Appraisal Report
TMR  Toddler Mortality Rate
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:   Ian C. Porter
Sector Director:    Maureen Law
Task Manager:    L. Richard Meyers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   5
6. Sustainability                                                                       6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      8
9. Partner Comments                                                                     9
10. Additional Information                                                              9
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  21
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report                                                  22
Annex 9. Technical Assistance Program                                                  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004312                                         Project Name: MY-HEALTH
Team Leader: L. Richard Meyers                              TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                          Report Date: December 14, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: MY-HEALTH                                        L/C/TF Number: CPL-36820;
SCL-3682A;
SCPD-3682S
Country/Department: MALAYSIA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/23/90                                  Effective:                     02/10/94
Appraisal:  03/11/92                                    MTR:  10/15/96              10/20/98
Approval:  12/14/93                                  Closing:  12/31/99            06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF MALAYSIA/MOH & DOE
Other Partners:  NA
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kasum                          Calisto Madavo
Country Manager:      Ian C. Porter                               Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:       Maureen Law                                 Jayasankar Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:   L. Richard Meyers                          Jo. M. Martins
ICR Primary Author:   Claire Voltaire
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The stated objectives of this project were to support Government efforts to: (a) increase the capacity of
environmental and public health laboratories for surveillance and disease control; (b) expand and
improve primary health care in three states with lower health status; (c) improve the efficacy and safety
of blood transfusion services; and (d) strengthen the ministry of Health (MOH) for policy formulation,
management and clinical skills development, with specific attention to occupational health.
These objectives were clear and were consistent with the Government Five-Year Plan. However, in
comparison with the extensive policy formulation exercise initiated by the Government to reform its
health system (hospital management, financing mechanisms), the project scope had a narrow focus.
Strong emphasis was put on "hardware" activities (construction, equipment) which represented close to
95% of project costs. This may be explained in part by the extensive presence of the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) which was then supporting GOM by financing technical assistance on
policy formulation and investing in two health sector-wide projects. The narrow scope of the project
limited somewhat the potential for in-depth collaboration between GOM and the Bank on more
systemic issues. Within this context, the project nonetheless contributed to fulfilling the country's
needs. Malaysia is now equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for laboratory and blood transfusion,
which are comparable with that of the private sector in the developed world. They have the potential to
become important elements of the health system.
However, the project missed an opportunity in at least one important area: no component or measure
was included to support the development/strengthening of the GOM monitoring and evaluation
capacity. While this need was rightly identified by both the GOM and the Bank, the project did not
address it by including a component or at least developing adequate monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms for the project activities themselves.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project remained unchanged through out its implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
Component                       Cost (US$ million eq)
Environment Health and Disease Control       68.0
Primary Health Care                          11.5
Health Technology                            19.7
Strengthening of Ministry of Health           2.1
3.4 Revised Components:
The contents of the components remained unchanged with the exception of the sites of some facilities
and their costs as described in Annex 2.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project preceded the introduction of this methodology in the Bank. This ICR rates its quality at
entry as marginally satisfactory based on the following:
- 2 -



Project Concept Objectives and Approach: As described above, the project served as a platform to
resume a dialogue between the Bank and GOM and responded to issues shared by both, though the
rationale for a mainly "hardware" project is not fully documented. The project was not conceived as a
coherent entity but rather as a series of unrelated sub-projects and as such was managerially quite
complex. This is particularly apparent in the implementation arrangements which involved four
independent oversight (PIC) and implementation (PIU) units but no overall technical coordination (to
monitor implementation, costs and financing or indicators). The lack of monitorable implementation
and outcome indicators, clearly linked to the project, was a weakness of its design.
Technical, economic and financial analysis: Extensive analytical work was carried out, with Bank
collaboration, as part of the Sixth Five-Year Plan preparation as well as through the Japanese Grant.
The scope of these analyses was much broader than that of the project itself. The design briefs for the
main laboratories and the NBC were elaborated with support from international experts. No formal
economic or project cost-benefit analysis was made.
Environmental Analysis:  The documentation specified that provisions were made for taking
environmental concerns into account when designing/building health centers, labs and the NBC. The
beneficial impact of the project was not documented, though likely to be significant.
Institutional Capacity Analysis: No formal analysis is included in the files. With hindsight, it appears
that project oversight and implementation arrangements as described in the loan agreement left some
issues unresolved, in particular with regards to the responsibility for the construction component, which
was particularly complex.
Readiness for implementation: The GOM was committed to the project though it operated on a
different implementation timetable (following its Five-Year Plan) from that of the Bank. Preparation
was extensive, though the fact that the Japanese Grant to prepare the project was managed by the Bank
prevented immediate MOH ownership of the project. Insufficient attention was given to establishing a
realistic timeline for project implementation. In particular, full staffing of the PIUs at project inception
as well as initiation of design work prior to project effectiveness would have avoided some of the
bottlenecks which later appeared. Formal proof of land selection should have been secured.
Risk and sustainability: The risk linked to the inexperience of the implementing agencies in Bank
project implementation was identified and somewhat mitigated. The imnportance of the laboratories'
staffing requirements was identified though not viewed as a risk to the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
All stated objectives - increasing capacity of laboratories, expanding primary services in selected
areas, improving blood transfusion services and strengthening MOH in key areas - were achieved and
demand for and quality of these services is growing. However, since no monitorable indicators were
developed with baseline or target performance, it is not possible to assess precisely the contribution of
the project. Noted improvements in staff attitude and performance are more likely attributable to
improvements in organization, training of staff and equipment than to expansion of facilities, as most
sites have just recently started to operate. The health status of the population in the States covered by
the Primary Health Care component is now close or equal to the national average, though again the
contribution of the project to this is not documented. Annex 1 lists some related indicators which
- 3 -



provided the basis for the optimistic assessment made.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The intended outputs of each component were, as described below, for the most part realized, though
with a one- to two- year delay. Two critical aspects were not addressed within the project timeframe
and are now being tackled by the GOM: (i) the Management Information Systems in the laboratories
and in the Blood Transfusion Center are not yet developed; and (ii) the staffing requirements of the
facilities developed have not yet been fully met and a critical mass of qualified staff needs to be
recruited. With regards to the former, these information systems were not initially included in the
project. There is general agreement however that they are essential to effective utilization of the
facilities and they are being introduced by the GOM.
(a) Environmental Health and Disease Control:  The project developed high quality analytical
laboratory services to monitor water and food quality and screening for a range of diseases of major
public health importance:
(i) under the Department of Chemistry (DOC): a central environmental laboratory in Petaling
Jaya and four branch laboratories located in Ipoh, Melaka, Kuching and Kota Kinabalu were
established and existing labs equipped. All five laboratories became operational in late 1999 and
have been certified ISO G25 and/or 9002 and are pursuing ISO 17025. Despite the difficulties
encountered by DOC in securing the necessary positions and attracting the qualified staff, both its
capacity and efficiency at providing services have improved and client satisfaction is high (based
on a survey carried out by DOC).
(ii) under the MOH: one central public health laboratory in Sungai Buloh and two regional ones in
Ipoh (North) and Johore Bahru (South) were developed. All sites are ready for operation and staff
are testing equipment. Services are expected to commence before the end of 2001. Some technical
defects are being corrected. Given the delayed completion, the last payments for civil works could
not be financed under the loan and will be covered by the Government.
(b) Primary Health Care: The primary care facilities were established and/or upgraded in three states
with low health status (Kelantan, Terengganu and Sarawak) through the rehabilitation, furnishing and
equiping of 7 existing health centers and construction of 5 new facilities. All civil works and equipping
of the facilities has been completed (in 1994-95 for Sarawak and 98-99 for the other States) and
services are being provided in all but one health center for which poor contractor performance caused
re-tendering and therefore exclusion from the timeframe of the project.
(c) Health Technologv: The project established (built, furnished, equipped and provided related
consultant services) a National Blood Transfusion Services Center (NBC) and equipped 13 major
hospitals to ensure the safety of blood products. Since its handover to MOH in September 2000, the
NBC has suffered from some construction defects (air balance and water proofing) which are now
being addressed by GOM. Securing the required staffing, including administrative staff, for the unit
(242 posts needs; 176 filled) is also of concem to GOM.
(d) Strengthening of MOH: 72 staff-months (out of the 87 anticipated) of technical assistance (TA)
for policy and service development and upgrading of clinical and management skills were provided.
The program was advertised intemationally as a single package and covered 15 disciplines (Annex 9).
It was completed successfully and strengthened the policy and service development capacity of the
- 4 -



Ministry. The training and fellowships intended were provided, though financed mostly by GOM and
ADB. In addition, due to the economic crisis, local training was preferred to training abroad whenever
possible.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The contribution of the project is rated as modest in light of its narrow focus compared to the broader
sector reform in which the GOM was and still is engaged. Nevertheless, the availability of laboratory
services and blood transfusion services is a key element for quality of care, which contributes to
institutional development. With the great improvements in access to water achieved throughout the
country, availability of quality control laboratories will become even more beneficial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
*   The economic crisis midway through the project had a strong impact on GOM's ability to recruit
and offer salaries able to attract qualified candidates to staff the laboratories.
* The project was designed as a series of independent sub-projects rather than as a coherent whole,
thus making coordination more difficult (i.e., to ensure complementarity of mandates of the
various laboratories, or monitor the project implementation and contribution towards the GOM
strategy).
*   The low frequency of Bank supervision missions (one per year) and the absence of an architect in
the team deprived GOM of the external perspective often useful to address potential issues before
they become bottlenecks.
5.2 Factors generally suZbject to government control:
The following are the main factors which contributed to the project success:
*   MOH and DOC's strong commitment to their sub-projects, and the sustained availability of
counterpart funds;
* the parallel efforts made in other sectors (i.e., water and sanitation) which had a positive impact on
health status; and
* the pragmatic attitude and receptivity to technical assistance, which facilitated rapid transfer of
know-how.
Constraining factors were as follows:
* Changes in construction sites selection and architectural programs affected several facilities,
delayed the start of design work and construction, and had a negative impact on costs.
* The delegation, after the start of the project, of the responsibility for designing and supervising the
construction of the laboratories and the NBC to the Public Works Department (JKR). Indeed, the
- 5 -



design and supervision of such complex buildings requires highly specialized skills which Public
Works Departments rarely can (nor should) have in-house. Moreover, as JKR's participation had
not been planned for in the project initial implementation arrangements, no special provisions were
made to ensure that appropriate and rapid coordination mechanisms were in place between all
parties.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
* The four-level construction supervision mechanisms put in place in DOC were a source of delays
and confusion of mandates which diluted responsibility and led to some miscommunications with
the consultants and contractors.
* Staff tumover in the MOH-PIU, as well as the absence of a full time planner for the laboratories,
made implementation more difficult.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The costs of the project (see Annex 2) represent a 160% increase over estimates (RM 411.9 million
compared to the RM 258.2 million appraised). This is attributable mainly to increases in the costs of
civil works as a combined result of changes in design programs, delays of one to two years in
construction start-up, poor contractor performance, a rapid increase in construction costs in Malaysia,
and exchange rate variations. These cost increases were absorbed by the Government. The loan was
closed on June 31, 2001 (18 months beyond the initial closing date) with US$43.16 million equivalent
disbursed. The balance of US$6.84 million was canceled in 1999 (US$1.5 million) and 2001 (US$5.3
million) as remaining payments could not be made before the loan closing date.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefbr suistainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely based on Government commitment to health, ability to pay and efforts
already achieved to ensure appropriate levels of staffing in all facilities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
GOM has extended the contract of PIU staff until June 2003 to ensure an adequate phasing-in to full
utilization. The following will require close attention:
* In view of their expanded roles, the respective mandates of the various laboratories will need to be
formalized, their methodologies standardized and formal communications mechanisms established
to ensure adequate complementarities and avoid any risk of over-lapping activities.
* An analysis of options to optimize utilization of these state-of-the-art laboratories needs to be
made.
* A review of staff requirements (in numbers and qualifications) will be necessary in line with the
growth in demand for laboratory services and performance targets.
* A Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) to record, track and access analytical data
should be developed urgently.
*   Indicators to monitor the performance and effectiveness of the laboratories and of the NBC should
be developed and included in MOH Health Management Information System (HMIS).
- 6 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Government assessed Bank support as satisfactory and timely. The Bank's self-assessment, based
on its internal files, is as follows:
Responsiveness: The Bank was proactive in re-entering a dialogue with GOM on health after a gap in
lending. It supported the development of the Five-Year Plan and developed a good knowledge base of
sector issues. It is unclear however why a project with a wider scope was not developed, more in line
with GOM's broad reform approach. The choice of MOH as the Bank's main counterpart rather than
the Prime Minister's Office, which was then leading the health reform formulation effort (in particular
on financing mechanisms), and the strong presence of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) may have
been contributing factors.
Processing: Project development took close to 4 years between identification and Board approval. The
18 months gap between appraisal and negotiations (which resulted in the need for a costly
post-appraisal mission) was an oversight from the Bank since the Government had made it clear it
would align project implementation with its Sixth Five-Year Plan. Bank technical support to project
preparation was adequate both in terms of securing funding for recruitment of experts and supporting
the process. Insufficient attention was given to: (i) securing the land needed at individual sites, despite
the recurrence of this issue in previous projects; and (ii) ensuring that all partners in the project were
fully on board by effectiveness.
Documentation: The Bank documentation does not do justice to the analytical work undertaken before
and during preparation of this project. The detailed technical work carried out to define each
component was not summarized in the SAR, making it difficult for newcomers, from both the GOM or
the Bank sides, to clearly understand the project's contents. Inadequate outcome and output indicators,
which cannot easily be linked to the project, were selected but were defacto never monitored. Progress
indicators (such as completion rates or percentage disbursements) were not clearly defined as
management and supervision tools.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank supervision effort did not get translated into commensurate results.  Field missions
progressively slipped to only one visit per year. There was continuity of the mission team members
and their technical input was of good quality. However, the team's skills mix was not optimal as there
was no architect in the team after 1995, despite the complex construction component. The mid-term
review mission occurred much too late in the process for any significant changes to be made.
Resolution of procurement and implementation issues overshadowed the policy dialogue. No systematic
monitoring of costs and disbursements was done towards the later part of the project when the
disbursement lag was the greatest. Reporting was mechanical, relying on a standardized format which
did not easily capture potential or existing issues. The Bank consultants' technical contribution to
supervision is not documented in the files, though it was cited by GOM as highly satisfactory. Internal
reporting was poor.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The ICR rates Bank performance as unsatisfactory.
- 7-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
From the Bank's perspective, the Borrower's performance was adequate. In its own post-assessment,
the MOH has, however, indicated that greater and quicker ownership of the project could have been
achieved if the Japanese Grant had been managed by GOM rather than the Bank. With regards to land
selection for the facilities, it would have been preferable to have completed the consultation process
prior to signature of the loan to avoid the delays caused by the changes in sites.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was prompt in complying with the covenants of the loan agreement. The Project
Implementation Committees (PIC) met regularly and the Project Implementation Units (PIU) were
established in due time and maintained, though not always fully staffed. Progress reports and opinions
of auditors were transmitted to the Bank in a timely fashion and were of good quality. A more
proactive monitoring of progress, planned and actual project costs, disbursements and implementation
schedules (responsibility shared with the Bank) would have helped avoid many of the delays which
plagued the project and prevented the full disbursement of the loan.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The number of sponsors and participants in the project (Central Ministries, Bank, 2 PICs, 2 PLUs,
JKR, State and local authorities) made management of the project quite complex. In that context, the
performance of the PIUs was quite remarkable. As mentioned above, some delays could have been
avoided by a more proactive response by GOM decision-makers to problems related to costs,
disbursements and implementation schedules.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Due to the 18-month delay in project completion, the Borrower's performnance is rated as marginally
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Most of the lessons that can be drawn from this project have already been identified by sector
evaluations (i.e., "Investing in Health, Development Effectiveness in the Health, Nutrition and
Population Sector", OED 1999) and largely integrated in recent Bank guidelines for the preparation of
projects. In particular, this project illustrates that:
*   Keeping a project simple, in terms of objectives, components and implementation agencies
increases its likelihood of being implemented in a timely and satisfactorily manner. Most of the
difficulties encountered in this project stem from its complexity.
*   Appropriate monitoring and evaluation indicators to measure project outcome, output and progress
need to be developed and their use in decision-making encouraged in both the countries and the
Bank. Indeed, implementation of this project would have greatly benefited from adequate progress
indicators, as well as monitorable output indicators to trigger rapid resolution of problems and to
facilitate changes in GOM's strategy or implementation mechanisms when or if needed.
*   Supervision intensity and adequacy of the Bank's team skill-mix have been shown to have an
- 8 -



important influence on project outcome. Despite the quality of the Bank technical input, missions
did not include an architect and were not frequent enough to encompass all the requirements of an
effective supervision, resulting in delays in project implementation and recurring issues.
*   The introduction of new Bank Procurement guidelines and standard bidding documents (which
occured three times during the project life) may be better done at the country level than on a project
by project basis so that all parties (Implementing agencies, Tender Board, etc) are equally informed
and given full opportunity to buy into these proposed improvements. In parallel, the phasing in of
these new guidelines should be discussed more systematically with the implementing agency to
avoid delaying the processing of packages, with sometimes damaging consequences to the project
timetable.
In addition, with regards to Malaysia specifically:
* The Bank should have taken better account of its previous experience in the country: in particular
the consultation process for land acquisition should have been finalized and formal proof of land
ownership and selection for the project purposes included as a condition of the loan.
* With regards to the responsibility given to JKR for the construction component, the Bank should
have substantiated its technical reservations in a clearer manner by: (i) including an architect in its
team, and (ii) demonstrating the highly specialized technical skills requirements of such complex
buildings as the laboratories and the NBC.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MOH's comments requiring factual corrections and clarifications have been integrated in the text and are
not repeated here. Substantive comments were as follows (the text in italics corresponds to citations
from the ICR text):
" Clause 2: Principal performance ratings:
The assessment on the performance of the Bank is too harsh and we would like to suggest that this be
reviewed in the context of the extenuating circumstances and factors prevailing at the time of the
appraisal and the implementation of the project.
Clause 3.1: Original objective:
... the project scope is surprisingly narrow ..
It is our opinion that the scope of the project was clear although the outcome was quite specific. The
objectives were clearly spelled out in the appraisal and the sub-projects were consistent with the defined
objectives. The consultancy and the fellowships were wider in their scopes and objectives. So this is
not a fair statement.
However, the project missed an opportunity ...
As far as MOH is concemed, there are established mechanisms and indicators to gauge the benefits and
improvements derived even from the new laboratories. Direct and indirect performance indicators are
available.
Clause 4.2: Outputs by components:
The computerization of the laboratories was not in the original scope of the project. It was added later
and discussed during some of the missions. It was agreed that computerization would be useful and the
Bank agreed to include if for financing using a 2-stage bidding procedure. The failure to implement the
-9-



computerization during the period of the loan arose from the lack of user experience and the limited
software available in the market. Besides implementation issues, the computerization was also affected
by the unclear policy prevailing regarding the privatization of the whole computerization program for
governrent hospitals to a private company. When MOH was ready to float the tender towards the end
of the loan period it did not receive a response from the Bank. This exercise had to be aborted and is
currently being coordinated by the Technology Information Center of MOH.
Clause 5.2: Factors generally subject to government control: ... the designs and supervision of such
complex buildings requires highly specialized skills which PWD rarely can (nor should) have
in-house..
This matter has been discussed in detail during the missions and it was finally resolved that a consultant
firm be engaged to review the final design drawings. According to PWD the firm gave its thumb-up and
commented that the work was of a high quality. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the unit of
PWD undertaking this project is a special unit set up for the explicit purpose of constructing health and
medical facilities.
Clause 5.3: Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: ... Staff turnover ... were a
source of delays.
It is not fair to highlight this as the singular reason for the delay in the project. Admittedly the PIUs
were seriously handicapped but this should not be highlighted as a major contributory factor for the
eventual delay in the implementation.
Clause 6.2: Transition arrangement to regular operations: ... Clear mandated as well as standardized
methodologies ... to ensure adequate complementary between the various laboratories ...
The roles and responsibility of the laboratories in MOH and those in DOC were clearly spelt out in the
appraisal documents. The areas covered are the same and easy to confuse the overlapping roles and
responsibilities. It has been pointed out during the mission by both MOH and DOC staff that the roles
and responsibilities between the two ministries are clear and is not an area of concern.
Clause 7.6: Implementation agency: ... many delays could have been avoided by a more proactive
monitoring by GOM decision makers ...
We would like this statement to be substantiated otherwise it should be rephrased.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
Feedback from the private sector was not requested.
10. Additional Information
None
- 10-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
A.   Environmental Health and       No baseline data nor target described
Disease Control               in SAR or PSRs
In 1987 (Der 100.000 pop)
* Disease rates for water andfood     Typhoid: 17.92
contamination related diseases      Cholera: 3.53
decreased.                    Viral Hepatitis: 27.40
* Mortality due to cancer of cervix  1991: 0.43 per 100,000 population  1996: 0.49 per 100,000 population
decreased
B.   Primary Health Care
* Trends in the following rates
improved:                                   In 1991               In 1996         In 1999*
B. I At national level,
-     Infant mortality                       12.1                  9.1              7.9
-     Toddler mortality                      0.88                  0.7              0.6
-     Maternal mortality                     0.2                   0.2              0.2
B.2 In the States covered by the    No baseline data described in SAR nor
project:                                      PSRs
In 1991                       In 1998
Kelantan  Terengganu  Sarawak    Kelantan  Terengzanu Sarawak
-     Infant mortality          15.4        16.0     NA             9.6      11.4      6.2
-     Toddler mortality          1.31       1.23     NA             1.1       0.9      0.5
-     Maternal mortality         0.2         0.1      0.1           0.2       0.2      0.2
C. Health Technology
D. Strengthening of MOH
- Findings of studies and training
put into practice
Note:
Information in italics corresponds to that available in the SAR. Other indicators have been
reconstituted for the purpose of this evaluation.
Infant, Toddler and Maternal mortality rates are expressed by 1,000 live births.
* Preliminary Data, MOH
Source: Department of Statistics (1993 and 1997) and MOH HMIS, Malaysia
- 11 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Baseline 1992        Actual 200il
A. Environmental Health and Disease Control                                   DOC        MOH       DOC       MOH
* Number of water andfood control tests       None defined in SAR nor PSRs  421,732               596,980
performed by DOC and MOH labs increased
* Response time reduced (turn-around time for
completing analysis, in weeks)
o Water (26 tests)                                                     12                   2
o Foods
- Preservatives (6 types)                                           10                   6.5
- Heavy metals (10 metals)                                          10                   6.5
- Microbiological testngs (5 tolO tests)                            10                   5
- Grading of rice                                                   4                    I
o Testing of Food for Issuance of Certificate
for Export
- Chemical Analysis                                                 2                    1.4
- Microbiological analysis (5 to 10 tests)                          2                    1.1
- Mineral water (18 tests)                                          Not stated           2
o Crisis (emergency) cases                                               Top prior.           24 hrs.
- Analysis of rectal swab for cholera                                          2-3 days            1-2 days
- Analysis of food samples in cholera                                          >5 days             3 days
- Analysis of food samples in thyphoid                                         >5 days             4 days
B. Primary Health Care                          None defined in SAR nor PSRs. Target objective was defined for each health
* Number of services delivered in States                                    center in the appraisal working document, in
concemed by the project increased                                         terns of percentage increase in services.
C. Health Technology                            None defined in SAR nor PSRs
* Number of blood units tested increased in   National collection (1991):
catchment's area                           280,000
KLGH* Base line 1991: 42,000
of which 20% at Center
Target 1996: 100,000 of which
C.]. In 13 State blood banks:            40% at Center                     In 1992                  In 2000
- blood collection                                                    68,167                 160,484
- blood collection at mobile sessions                                 37,522                 109,866
* Number of donors found to have diseases
screened for
D. Strengthening of MOH
* Number of staff trained                                   75                                 209
*  Staff-months of TA completed                                              _       _      _ 72
Note:
Information in italics corresponds to that available in the SAR. Other indicators have been reconstituted for the purpose of this
evaluation.
While the SAR has planned for fellowships, a mix of local training and fellowship was carried out.
See detailed TA program in Annex 9.
* KLGH = Kuala Lumpur General Hospital
Source: Department of Statistics (1993 and 1997) and MOH HMIS, Malaysia
- 12-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
A. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
1. Department of Chemistry            39.9      52.1      101.6     173.9
2. Ministry of Health                 15.1      28.4       38.6       95.2
Sub-total A:     55.0       80.5      140.2     269.1
B  PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
1. Health Care facilities              9.6      15.8       24.5      48.0
C. HEALTH TECHNOLOGY
1. Blood Transfusion Center           16.0      23.0       40.9      81.1
D. STRENGTHENING OF MOH                    2.0       5.2        5.0      13.7
TOTAL BASE COSTS            82.6                210.6
Physical Contingencies                 8.2                 20.7
Price Contingencies                   10.6                 26.8
TOTAL COSTS                101.3    124.5       258.1     411.9
NOTE
- Latest estimates were provided by GOM. They include the costs of activities to be financed by the
Government after the loan closing in order to complete the project.
- 13-



Project Costs tbr Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$- million equivalent)
1. Works       __
Buildings
DOC                               33.7                                       33.7
(11.2)                                     (11.2)
MOH                                6.1      21.1                             27.2
(1.9)     (6.6)                            (8.5)
2. Goods
Furniture
DOC                                          1.2       0.2                    1.4
(0.3)     (0.0)                 (0.3)
MOH                                          1.1       0.4                    1.5
(0.2)     (0.1)                 (0.3)
Equipment and vehicles
DOC                                5.1       2.0       2.6                    9.7
(4.3)     (1.7)     (2.2)                 (8.2)
MOH                               12.2       4.0       1.3                   17.5
(10.2)    (3.4)     (1.1)                  (14.7)
3. Consultancies/Services
Architectural and Engineering
Design and Supervisionlb
DOC                                                    4.4                    4.4
(3.1)                 (3.1)
MOH                                                    2.8                    2.8
(2.0)                 (2.0)
Overseas Fellowships                                     (0.0)      1.4         1.4
(0.0)       (0.0)
Technical Assistance                                      1.7                    1.7
(1.7)                 (1.7)
Total                                 57.1      29.4       13.4       1.4        101.3
(27.6)    (12.2)    (10.2)     (0.0)       (50.0)
/a Totals represent total estimated costs per category including physical and price contingencies.
/b Professional fees for full services including quantity surveying.
/c Includes international and local shopping and direct purchase, and consultant services.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed
- 14 -



Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements Actual/Latest Estimate  US$ millione uivalent)
1. Wors__
Buildings
DOC                              34.9                           2.8        37.7
(11.6)                                    (11.6)
MOH                              18.0       8.9                13.8        40.7
(6.0)     (2.9)                          (8.9)
2. Goods
Furniture
DOC                                                   0.2                   0.2
(0.0)                (0.0)
MOH                                         0.3                             0.3
(0.1)                           (0.1)
Equipment and vehicles
DOC                               5.0      2.7        1.1       0.2        9.0
(4.3)     (1.7)     (2.2)                 (8.2)
MOH                               5.3      3.0        6.3       11.6       26.2
(5.0)     (2.4)     (2.0)                 (9.4)
3. Consultancies/Services
Architectural and Engineering
Design and Supervision
DOC                                                   4.3       0.6         4.9
(3.2)                (3.2)
MOH                                                   0.1                  (0.1)
(0.0)                 (0.0)
Overseas Fellowships                                              3.3         3.3
(0.0)                (0.0)
Technical Assistance                                    2.0                   2.0
__                                           _            (1.7) _(1.7)
Total                                63.2      14.9      14.0      32.3        124.4
(26.9)    (7.1)     (9.1)      0.0       (43.1)
/a Includes intemnational and local shopping and direct purchase, and consultant services.
Notei Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed
Project Financin  b Com  onent (in US$ million e uivalent
Base Cost      42.1     40.7
Physical Contingencieat   3.9      4.2
Price Contingencies       4.0      6.5
Total     50.0     51.4    43.1    81.4    86.2%        158.4%
- 15 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic or cost benefit analyses were carried out during apprraisal.
- 16 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress     Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
January 1988                 1   Public Health Specialist
February 1989                1   Health Specialist
June 1989                    2   Health Specialist
Public Health Specialist
November 1989                1   Health Specialist
May 1990                     4   Health Specialist
Health Technology Specialist
Environmental Heath Specialist
Public Health Specialist
October 1990                 6   Health Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Health Technology Specialist
Public Health Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
Procurement Specialist
April 1991                   6   Health Specialist
Medical Technology Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
Public Health Specialist
Occupational Health Specialist
October 1991                 7   Health Specialist
Architech/Implementation Spec.
Medical Technology Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
Primary Health Specialist
Occupational Health Specialist
Health Care Mgmt. Training
Spec.
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1992                   6   Health Specialist
Architech/Impl. Specialist
Medical Technology Spec.
Environmental Health $pec.
Primary Health Specialist
Occupational Health Spec.
May 1993                     5   Health Specialist
Architech/Impl. Specialist
Medical Technology Spec.
Environmental Health Spec.
Primary Health Specialist
- 17-



Supervision
December 1994                   5   Health Specialist                     HS              HS
Primary Health Care Sp.
Environmental Health Spec.
Health Technology Specialist
Proj. Implementation Spec.
June 1995                       5   Health Specialist                     HS              HS
Primary Health Care Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
Health Technology Specialist
Proj. Implementation Specialist
January 1996                    3   Health Specialist                     HS              HS
Environmental Health Specialist
Health Technology Specialist
November 1996                   4   Health Specialist                      S               S
Primary Health Care Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
Health Technology Specialist
August 1997                     4   Health Specialist                      S               S
Health Technology Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
Primary Health Specialist
October 1998                    3   Health Specialist                      S               S
Health Technology Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
July 1999                       4   Sr. Operations Officer                 S               S
Health Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
Health Technology Specialist
July 2000                       3   Sr. Operations Officer                 S               S
Health Specialist
Environmental Health Specialist
February 2001                   2   Sr. Operations Officer                 S               S
Environmental Lab. Specialist
ICR
No mission carried out
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                    155
Appraisal/Negotiation                         102                          804.4
Supervision                                   155                          570.8
ICR                                             5                           30.0
Total                                        417                          1405.2
The cost of the Identfication/Preparation is included in the line "Appraisal/Negotiation"
The table above excludes the following which was financed through Trust Funds:
-- Identification/Preparation/Appraisal/Negotiations = US$683,200  -- Supervision = US$245,000
- 18-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  0 N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
El Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                                 OH OSUOM *N ONA
O Institutional Development                 0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                            O H  *SUOM   O N  O NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                            OH OSUOM ON ONA
l Other (Please specify)             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
E Private sector development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Public sector management                  0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
ZOther (Please specify)                    O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Medical Diagnostic Capacity
-19-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHS *S   OU  OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS OS   *U  O HU
Ol Overall                                           OHS OS   * u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
El Preparation                                       O HS * S  O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             0 HS * S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 0 HS * S  0 U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   O u  O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Second Outline Perspective Plan, GOM, 1991
2.    Sixth Malaysia Five-year Plan, GOM
3.    National Health Plan, GOM
4.    Evaluating the Implementation of the Strategy for health for all by the year 2000,
Malaysia, Ministry of Health, 1997
5.    Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation of Strategy for Heal for All by the Year
2000, 1993 and 1998, Ministry of Health, Malaysia
6.    Communicable Diseases Control Information System, Annual Report 1997,
Ministry of Health Malaysia
7.    First Population Project (FY83) (Loan 880-MA, of US$5 million), Staff Appraisal
Report No. PP-12 of December 21, 1972, and Project Audit Report (PPAR no
5641)
8.    Second Population Project (FY79) (Loan 1608-MA of US$17 million of which only
35% disbursed)
9.    Country Economic Memorandum, The World Bank, 1991
10.   Replies to the Questionnaire for the Preparation of an Implementation Completion
Report, August 2001, Department of Chemistry, Malaysia
11.   Implementation Completion Report, Planning and Development Division, Ministry
of Health, Malaysia, 31 October 2001
12.   Health Development Project Bank intemal files of key documents and
correspondence
- 21 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report
Extracts of the completion reports prepared by both MOH and DOC are presented below. The names of
contractors and consultants have been eliminated for confidentiality purposes. The full texts of these
reports may be found in the project files.
I. Ministry of Health (MOH)
All the sub-projects were completed and are fully operational while the services at the four laboratory
sub-projects are being stepped-up in phases till the facilities are exploited fully and when additional
manpower are expected to become available.
The immediate benefits of the new facilities are evident and the early data available suggests that the
facilities are being patronized and well received by the target groups. The range of services and workload
has also increased proportionately to reflect the improved space, environment and equipment.
Generally the Government of Malaysia, in particular the Ministry of Health Malaysia, discharged its
obligations under the loan and complied with all the covenants of the loan agreement besides the timely
implementation and completion of the loan sub-projects. There were some problems encountered owing to
the complexity of the four laboratory sub-projects and the fact that the facilities were being built for the
first time in the country. The global economic crisis midway through the loan period also presented
unexpected challenges to the smooth implementation of the project arising from the weakened ringgit
vis-a-vis the American dollar. New strategies had to be applied that culminated in the successful
disbursement of the full loan amount.
The consultancy program was satisfactorily completed. The successful completion of this program could
be ascribed to the engagement of the consultants through the services of a single consultancy firm.
Meanwhile, the training and fellowships program that was funded locally by the government was
overachieved in spite of the prevailing economic situation.
The World Bank also performed satisfactory consistent with its role and provided guidance and assistance
both prior and during the full duration of the loan. Approvals and no-objections were generally issued
speedily and on a timely basis.
There were lessons learned that would assist in the planning and implementation of similar projects.
Lessons Learned
1.    Project Loan:
The loan negotiated was a project loan where the financing was for specific and prior agreed
projects. It was felt that there would have been more flexibility had the loan been negotiated as a
As expressed in Ringgit.
- 22 -



sector loan. A substantial amount of time was required to process and approve each time a project
or component was changed. In a sector loan, the borrower would be able to substitute projects that
are slow or that had encountered difficulties with similar projects that could be more speedily
completed without any hassles.
The quantum of interest and commitment charges paid on the loan was substantial. The amount of
commitment charge paid during the first year of the loan was considerable.
2.     Loan disbursement:
The full sum of the loan amount was made available immediately when the loan was declared
effective. It took sometime before MOH was able to submit the first withdrawal application.
Commitment charge was imposed on the full amount from the first day.
The loan amount should have been made available in installments to match the projected
implementation schedule when payments were expected. By staggering the release of the funds
GOM would have saved a substantial amount on commitment charges arising from non-utilization
of the loan.
3.    Loan effectiveness
Considerable time was taken before the loan was formalized and declared effective. MOH was not
fully aware of the time frame. As a result the sub-projects, especially the four laboratory
sub-projects took some time to be organized. The loan was also declared effective before the
additional posts in MOH-PIU was approved and filled. This contributed to the slow start in the
implementation of the sub-projects.
It is suggested that in future loans, efforts be taken to ensure the readiness of the executing agency
before the loans are declared effective. Consultation with the executing agency is important
because they are the one responsibility for the smooth implementation and completion of the
project.
4.     Staffing
To a certain extent, the involvement of the Project Coordinator in the technical requirements of
sub-projects of the loan prevented him from concentrating on the administrative aspect of the
projects and the loan. Full time facility planners should have been assigned to undertake the
planning and design of the four laboratories. The National Blood Center and the three public
health laboratories were being built for the first time in this country. The design teams for these
sub-projects depended very heavily on the input of the facility planner and the coordinators from
the user division of MOH to provide decisions on operational policies and workflows of services
and material in the new laboratories. This sentiment was shared by the National Blood Center that
felt that the project would have benefited from the appointment of a fulltime technical project team
instead of depending on existing staff at the Blood Bank who had to provide input to the design in
addition to carrying out their day-today activities.
5.    Consultation and involvement of the PIU
Although the Bank provided technical assistance during the pre-appraisal and appraisal period of
- 23 -



the loan, the staff of the PIU was not involved. The technical assistance covered the feasibility and
the preliminary design concepts. Unfortunately, many of the personnel identified and who were
involved at this stage were not later involved in the planning and design of the sub-projects. The
Project Coordinator and the Equipment Planners in the PIU were handicapped by their lack of
knowledge of the events and discussion that led to the findings and recommendations of the
consultants who provided the technical assistance.
Owing to this, the sub-projects did not fully benefit from the technical assistance.
6.     Rates contracts
The Bank did not agree to allow any procurement through the use of existing rates contracts. It
was feared that some of the rates contracts may not have been awarded under conditions acceptable
to the Bank. These contracts covered common user items and may be utilized by all government
and statutory departments. The rates are based on bulk orders and there are clear and detail
procedures to ensure quality and performance. Generally these contracts were drawn up through
an open tender process. The use of these contracts would have offered reasonable prices based on
economy of scale and detailed and stringent requirements on performance and quality. They would
have speeded up the purchase of common user items like furniture and vehicles.
For the same reason, the Bank also did not allow procurement from the privatized central medical
stores. As a result, every single purchase had to be carried out through formal ICB or LCB based
on the best of a minimum of three quotations.
7.    Consultancy services through engagement of a single consultancy firm
The benefit of dealing with a single consultancy firm instead of separately with numerous
individual consultants was explained earlier under the relevant section of the report. MOH
strongly recommends that a similar approach be adopted should a decision to engage more
consultancy services in the future.
Conclusion
I .    Performance of GOM:
GOM has complied with all the loan covenants. The full amount of the revised loan amount was
fully applied for before the agreed loan closing date. All the financed sub-projects were completed
and are operational. GOM may deem to have performed satisfactorily.
2.     Performance of WB:
Overall, the performance of the Bank may be considered satisfactory. Every effort was made to
assist GOM, especially MOH, in the execution and implementation of the loan and sub-projects.
Approvals were provided in a timely fashion whenever possible. The insistence on the preparation
of a new standard bidding document midway through the loan was applied retrospectively and was
the only point of contention in an otherwise satisfactory relationship.
- 24 -



Summary and Recommendatdon
1.    Wherever possible future loans should be sector instead of project loans.
2.     The disbursement of funds should be staggered to match the projected requirement instead of as a
lump sum at the beginning of the loan.
3.     The staff of the PIU should be intimately involved in the planning and implementation of the loan
financed projects. The staff of the PIU shall be trained and in place before declaring loan
effectiveness.
4.     Dedicated full time staff should be assigned to project teams overseeing the planning and design of
major new facilities.
5.     Special effort shall be made to ensure project readiness for implementation before declaring loan
effectiveness.
6.     Standard formats and documents shall be mutually agreed and maintained throughout the duration
of the loan.
II. Department of Chemistry (DOC)
Project Execution, Initial Operation & Benefits
The component related to DOC includes:
1.    Construction, equipping and fumishing of one (1) central laboratory and four (4) branch
laboratories for water and food analysis testing.
2.     Equipment for existing laboratories.
The construction of the 5 buildings was awarded in a single Contract. The completion period was 635 days
(21 months) from 16 December 1996 to 12 September 1998 for the whole works for each location under
the Contract. Due to valid reasons, the construction period was extended a further 319 days to 28 July
1999. DOC duly took possession of the buildings and by the end of 1999, all 5 laboratories were in full
operation.
These new purpose-built laboratories with much increased laboratory floor space did more than solve space
constraint problems encountered. They have had a very positive effect on the morale of the laboratory staff.
Where analyses formerly occupied a mere bench or cubicle, each is now expanded to a legitimate room
where there is better control of procedures and activities. In addition to the continual upgrading of current
laboratory technologies of the various disciplines, DOC, with the generous Eighth Malaysia Plan
approvals, have ample capacity to take on new fields of analysis such as the analysis of genetically
modified organisms in food products and analysis of furans, dioxins & PCB's in environmental samples.
These tests, including DNA analysis at the new Kuching Laboratory in Sarawak (the center for DNA
analysis in East Malaysia), will be available in early 2002. Other new tests in drinking water,
surface/ground water and food sample analysis are being developed.
The procurement of equipment for the existing laboratories started in 1993 under retroactive financing
arrangements. This component proceeded smoothly throughout the duration of the project. DOC did
remarkably well in upgrading equipment in the existing laboratories as well as equipping the 5 new
facilities.
Overall, the equipment procurement program had significant effects on the efficiency and prestige of the
- 25 -



Department. The automated features available in most of the laboratory equipment purchased had
minimized manpower dependency, enhanced analytical capabilities, improved productivity and enabled
DOC to fast track development of its quality assurance program for the laboratories which has resulted in
delivery of reliable, accurate and quality outputs to clients.
The following are shortcomings that hindered the smooth implementation of the construction component.
1.     The design & supervision contract for the consultants should not be made out for a fixed period of
construction only. It should have the provision for the extension of their services if deemed
necessary.
2.     Items related to payments to consultants must be clearly stated in the contract. Any ambiguity will
invite disputes, dissatisfaction and a waste of time.
3.     Items related to the consultants' site supervision such as the number and job discipline of site staff
at each site must be clearly stated to avert delay in execution.
4.     Technical specifications in the civil works contract for proprietary items or established products
should state the brand name as a bench- mark to avoid unnecessary disputes and delay.
5.     The logistical problems arising from execution of works for multiple work sites at different
locations in the country contribute generally to a loss of time.
Bank's Performance
Overall, the Bank performed satisfactorily. It has fulfilled its obligations as agreed. Most of the time
prompt replies were received for inquiries made.
The field missions were especially helpful to DOC in overcoming difficulties in the construction works
during their trips. Their advice and call for the supply of appropriate fumehoods for the laboratories
spurring the attention of the authorities during a crucial mission is an example of their commitment and
professionalism.
GOM's Performance
The GOM has complied with all the Loan covenants. All necessary revisions of the loan amounts were
supported and applied for execution.
On the whole, the GOM also performed satisfactorily.
- 26 -



Additional Annex 9. Technical Assistance Program
The following program was carried out successfully.
No.   Discipline                          Man months
Policy Development
1.    Health Technology Assessment               3
2.     Occupational Health                       8
Service Development
3.    Nutritional Services in PHC                3
4.     Mental Health Services in PHC             3
5.    Quality Assurance - Blood Services         1
Clinical Skills Training
6.     Gastro-enterology Endoscopy               2
7.     Ophthalmology Clinical Service            4
8.     ENT Clinical Services                     4
Management Skills Training
9.     Management Strengthening                  10
10.    Management Infomiation Support            4
11.    Health Policy Analysis and Evaluation     4
12.   Computer Service Development               12
13.   Teacher Training                           6
14.    Distance / Self paced leaming             6
15.   Equipment Planner                          2
Total:                                    72
- 27 -



