Documlt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 10995-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1993
MICROGRAPHI CS
Report No:         10995 MA
Type: SAP
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and mayv be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wvithout World Banki authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1993)
Currency Unit - Ringgit (RM)
US$1.00 - RM2.55
RMl.00   US$0.39
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
AIDS        Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
BCG         Baccille Calmette-Guerin
CMR         Child Mortality Rate
DOC         Department of Chemistry
DP&D        Division of Planning and Development (MOH)
EPU         Economic Planning Unit, Prime Minister's Department
GNP         Gross National Product
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IMR         Infant Mortality Rate
JKR         Jabatan Kerja Raya (Public Works Department)
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MOH         Ministry of Health
NRR         Net Reproduction Rate
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TFR         Total Fertility Rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Malaysia
Amount:                  US$50.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:    The project aims to meet emerging environmental and
occupational health concerns, improve equaitable access to
primary health care, introduce appropriate new health
technologies that improve quality of services and meet
priority growing needs, and institutional strengthening.
The project is designed to: (a) increase the capacity of
environmental and public health laboratories for
surveillance and disease control; (b) expand and improve
primary health care facilities in three states with lower
health status; (c) improve the efficacy and safety of
blood transfusion services; and (d) strengthen the
Ministry of Health for policy formulation, management and
clinical skills development, with specific attention to
occupational health. The project finances civil works,
furniture, equipment and vehicles, training and
consultant services.
Benefits and Risks:      The project will increase capacity to monitor
environmental and public health and improve occupational
health and safety. The quality of services to mothers
and children in poorer states will be enhanced through
improvement in the efficacy and safety of primary health
care services in targeted areas with low health status,
and will contribute to poverty alleviation in the three
targeted states. The use of blood products will be made
safer in view of the present threat of AIDS and
Hepatitis. The project will also have a demonstration
effect in the introduction of priority health technology,
and strengthen the Government's institutional capacity
and policy development. The managerial capacity of the
Department of Chemistry to implement its component is a
risk that must be addressed by the provision of
appropriate support, because of the present lack of a
locus for project implementation. The establishment of a
Project Implementation Unit in DOC is a condition of loan
effectiveness, and special attention will be given during
supervision to the management of the DOC component.
Technical aspects of the project will require continued
attention. To minimize any risk:s, the project has gone
through lengthy and detailed technical preparation made
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



- ii-
possible through a Japan Grant. The technical effort in
preparation will be followed by intensive technical
supervision during implementation.
Estimated Costs:                            Local        Foreign      Total
----     (US$ million)   ----
Environmental Health
and Disease Control             28.1            26.9       55.0
Primary Health Cdre                    5.2             4.4         9.6
Health Technology                      5.2            10.8        16.0
Strengthening of Ministry of Health   -                2.0         2.0
Base Costs                            38.6            44.1        82.6
Physical Contingencies                 4.2             3.9         8.1
Price Contingencies                    6.5             4.0        10.5
Total Project Costs -/                49.3            52.0       101.3
Figures may not add due rounding.
a/    Including 3% in duties mainly on imported building equipment and materials.
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
----     (US$ million)  ----
IBRD                                                  50.0        50.0
Government                            49.3             2,0        51.3
Total                                 49.3            52.0       101.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
---------------- (US$ million) ---------------
Annual                      1.4    3.6    7.0   10.0   11.0   11.0       6.0
Cumulative                 1.4    5.0   12.0   22.0   33.0   44.0    50.0



- iii -
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Poverty Category:              While this pro3ect is not specifically designed to
address poverty aileviation, the Primary Health
Care component of the project would benefit the
rural poor by improving access to basic health
services in three low-income states.
MaR:                           IBRD No. 24086R



-iv-
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                           i
I.    SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.    Population, Health and Nutrition                             1
B.    The Health Care System                                       3
C.    Health Care Resources and Utilization                        5
D.    Health Care Expenditure and Financing                        7
E.    Government Health Policies                                   9
F.    Issues and Strategies for the Future                         9
c.    Bank's Role in the Malaysian Health Sector                  11
II,  THE PROJECT
A.    Project Origin                                              12
B.    Project Rationale and Objectives                            13
C.    Project Description                                         13
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    Costs                                                       17
B.    Financing                                                   20
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Status of Project Preparation                               25
B.    Organization and Management                                 26
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation                                   28
D     Environmental Aspects                                       29
E.    Impact on Women                                             30
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission to Malaysia from
20 April to 9 May 1992, and a mission in May 1993. Mission members were
Messrs. J. M. Martins (Task Manager), V. C. Demetriou (Architect), T. R. King
(Consultant, Health Technology), T. K. Ng (Consultant, Occupational Health),
S. Villard (Consultant, Environmental Health), 24. Vienonen (Consultant, Primary
Health Care). Peer Reviewers were Messrs. W. De Geyndt, 0. Echeverri and
R. McGough. This document was cleared by J. Shivakumar (Chief, EAIPH) and
C. E. Madavo (Director, EAl).



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
(continued)
Page Nc.
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits                                                    30
B.    Risks                                                       30
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Agreements Reached                                          30
B.    Recommendation                                              31
ANNEXES
1.    Fellowships Program                                               32
2.    Technical Assistance Program                                      33
3.    Costs                                                             34
4.    Implementation Schedule of Key Activities                         41
5.    Procurement by Category and Method, Bank Review and               43
Withdrawal Documentation
6.    Disbursement Forecast                                             44
7.    Organization Chart:  Ministry of Health                           45
8.    Organization Chart:  Department of Chemistry                      46
9.    Project Implementation Unit:  Department of Chemistry             47
10.   Project Implementation Unit:  Ministry of Health                  48
11.   Project Impact Assessment                                         49
12.   Field Supervision Plan                                            50
13.   Selected Documents Available in Project File                      51
14.   Statistical Annex                                                 52
MAP
.BRD No. 24086R



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.   SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. lopulation. Health and Nutrition
1.1       Population.  Malaysia's population was estimated at 18.2 million in
1991.  In spite of increasing industrialization, some 50 percent live in rural
areas. The average population density is 55 people per square kilometer. It
varies greatly between Peninsular Malaysia and the sparsely settled states of
Sabah and Sarawak, in East Malaysia. Malaysia's density is considerably lower
than that of neighboring Indonesia (93/sq..km) and Thailand (ll0/sq.km), and of
Korea (432/sq.km). In 1991, the crude birth rate was 27.7 live births per
thousand people and the death rate was 4.7, which resulted in a natural rate of
increase of 2.3 percent. The declining, but high, rate of population growth has
given rise to a relatively young population with 26 percent under the age of 10.
This will have a lasting impact on the size of the labor force and health service
needs. The age distribution of the population is as follows: 0-14 years:
37 percent; 15-64: 59 percent; and over 64: 4 percent. The high dependency
ratio of 69 percent is falling with lower rates of population growth.
1.2       The decreasing total fertility rate (TFR) reached 3.7 in 1989.  This
TFR is substantially higher than that in Indonesia (3.3), Thailand (2.5) and
Korea (1.8), but similar to that of the Philippines (3.7). The number of new
acceptors of contraceptives has been increasing in recent years after a decline
in the early 1980s. The pill is by far the most popular contraception method
(76%) followed by condoms (13%). Age-specific fertility rates have shown
substantial declines in recent years, especially in the case of younger females.
The high rate of female participation in basic education (96%) should support
this trend.  The continuing high fertility rates among older females is a health
risk to both mother and the newborn- . Fertility in Malaysia should continue
to fall with the forecast rise in the female labor participation rate, which is
expected to reach 49 percent by the year 2000. The Bank has estimated that the
net reproduction rate (NRR) of one will be reached in 2015, and that the
hypothetical size of stationary population is 43 million.
1.3       Health and Nutrition Status.  Health status has shown significant
improvements in the 1980s. Life expectancy in Malaysia was 71 years in 1991,
compared with 68 in 1980, and 64 years in 1970. It compares favorably with life
expectancy in Indonesia (61 years) and Thailand (66 years), and it is similar to
that in Korea (71 years). Infant Mortality Rates (IMR) reported show a
considerable drop from 23.9 infant deaths per thousand live births in 1980 to
12.5 in 1991. Maternal mortality has also improved considerably and stood at
0.39 maternal deaths per thousand live births in 1990. These rates compare well
with those in Indonesia and Thailand, and are similar to those in Korea.
Maternal and infant death risks increase with the age of the mother, after 34 years of age. The
risk of congenital anomalies also increases.



-2-
1.4        Age-specific mortality varies substantially among states in Peninsular
Malaysia. In 1987/1988, both Kelantan and Terengganu had 11% more deaths than
expected /f the average age-specific rates for Peninsular Malaysia were
applied.-
Table 1.1: Index of Differential Mortality
Age-Standardized Mortality Based on Peninsular Malaysia Experience
Peninsular Malaysia 1987/1988
Standardized Mortality   Mortality 2 above (+)
State                              Index              or Below (-) Peninsular
Peninsular Malaysia=100.0     Malaysia Average
2
Kelantan                                 111.1                      + 11.1
Terengganu                               111.0                     + 11.0
Selangor                                 104.2                     4 4.2
Kedah                                    102.8                     + 2.8
Pahang                                   101.2                     + 1.2
Perlis                                   100.9                     + 0.9
Perak                                     99.9                      - 0.1
Pulau Pinang                              98.7                      - 1.3
Melaka                                    98.6                      - 1.4
N. Sembilan                               97.9                      - 2.1
Johor                                     95.5                      - 4.5
Kuala Lumpur                              86.6                      - 13.4
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA                      100.0
Source: Department of Statistics, Malaysia. World Bank estimates.
1.5        Birthweight is the major factor in the survival of the newborn.
There has been a steady improvement in those most at risk, namely babies weighing
less than 2.5 kilograms; their proportion declined from 10.3% in 1980 to 8.2% in
1990. The nutritional status of children affects their physical and intellectual
functioning and development. The proportion of children suffering from
severe/moderate malnutrition has decreased. This has been associated with
programs aimed at the alleviation of poverty, including nutrition supplementation
for mothers and children at-risO. The improvement is reflected in the halving of
the child mortality rate (CMR)- from 2.1 deaths per thousand children 1-4
years of age in 1980 to 1.0 in 1990. The states of Kelantan (1.1/1,000),
Terengganu (1.3/l,G00), Pahang (1.3/1,00) and Sabah (1.4/1,000) had CMRs above
average. Although the proportion of children affected by severe malnutrition is
small, those suffering from moderate/mild malnutrition is still significant. The
average for Peninsular Malaysia was 25% in 1990. Kelantan, with 31% of children
under 5 years of age in this category, is more severely affected than other
states.
2/ The recording of vital events is also difficult because of the relative isolation of some
conmnunities.
31 The child mortality rate (CMRP is often used as an indicator of child nutrition.



-3-
1.6       Malaysia has been successful in preventing and controlling
communicable diseases. For instance, no new cases of polio were reported in the
period 1986-1991. Nevertheless, incidence rates for various preventable diseases
justify the Government's concern with improvements in the quality and coverage of
the immunization of children. In 1990, a major drive led to the complete triple-
antigen immunization of 92% of infants in Peninsular Malaysia and respectively
79% and 86% in Sabah and Sarawak. However, this achievement reflects a range
from 60% to full coverage of the target population, among health districus.
Measles immunization coverage is lagging.  Tuberculosis has diminished in
importance, but it continues to have a hold on some sections of society. Nearly
100% BCG vaccination of infants against tuberculosis has been helpful but not
sufficient in the prevention of this disease. Although Halaysia has been highly
successful in controlling malaria and dengue, they continue to require attention
and control. Periodic outbreaks of cholera, typhoid, dysentery and food
poisoning are a cause of concern with the quality of the water supply, sanitation
and personal hygiene. There is also a relatively high incidence of hepatitis and
a growing number of people found to be HIV positive in at-risk groups in the
community. The number of detected HIV positive cases in Malaysia increased from
19 in 1988 to 630 in 1990. The number of new HIV positive cases in 1991 was
1,686 and 2,417 in 1992.
1.7       The improvement in life expectancy has led to an increasing number of
people over 40 years of age at risk of chronic illness, including heart and other
diseases of the circulatory system. Accordingly, the proportion of people
admitted to hospital suffering from this condition (6.0%) has risen to third
place, after causes related to pregnancy and accidents, in 1990. In view of the
mentioned risks associated with births to mothers over the age of 34 years, it is
noteworthy that congenital anomalies are among the ten highest causes of
certified death in Malaysia (3.3%). Further, the declining but relatively large
proportion of certified deaths due to ill-defined conditions (6.8%) and the
proportion of undiagnosed cases in hospitals (5.2%) point to the need to continue
to improve diagnostic skills and related services.
1.8       Malaysia is experiencing an "epidemic" of accidents, which are the
second major cause of certified deaths and hospital admissions.   Motor vehicle
and occupation-related accidents are two major causes of this problem, in
addition to other trauma usually associated with an active young male population.
Since 1983, the rate of motor vehicle accidents reported has declined to 5.0 per
thousand people in 1990, in spite of a large growth in motor vehicle ownership,
while industrial accident rates have continued to increase and became a greater
health risk at the rate of 6.8 per thousand people. The rise in industrial
accidents is well above the growth in employees registered in Malaysia.
B. The Health Care System
1.9       Constitutional Government and Organization of the Health Sy.sem.  The
Malaysian constitution provides for a federal system of government with powers
being allocated to a federal and 13 state governments. Elected representative
bodies exist at both federal (Parliament) and state (Legislative Assemblies)
levels. Separate federal and state governments are headed by elected politicians
who are members of the Parliament and the Legislative Assemblies. Local
governments or authorities are made up of appointed representatives of local



-4-
communities.  Under the Constituticn, the Federas  government is responsible for
medicine and health. The federal mandate includes hospitals and clinics,
maternal and child welfare, care of lepers and menLal patients, control of
poisons and dangerous drugs and the medical profession. Some public health
functions (outside the federal capital) such as sanitation and the prevention of
disease are in a concurren.- list. State governments control local governments
within their boundaries.  Lccal governments undertake many health-related
functions, such as environmental sanitation, standards of housing and enforcement
of food hygiene laws. Water supply is a state matter, but the Federal government
is inzreasing its participation in this area. The Economic Planning Unit (EPU),
in the Prime Minister's Department, plays a major role in economic and social
policy development and the allocation of federal development funds.
1.10      Public and private health services co-exist in the country,  The
Ministry of Health (MOH) is the chief provider of health services. Other public
sector providers include the Armed Forces for its own personnel, and special
community health projects, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the
Aboriginal population, the Ministry of Education through a few major teaching
hospitals, and local authorities and municipalities. The Department of Chemistry
provides limited analytical laboratory services for a number of ministries,
including MOH.
1.11      Medical practitioners training is the responsibility of medical
schools in different universities, including post-graduate specialization.
Dentists and pharmacists are also .rained in universities. Training of nurses
and other health personnel is usually carried out by MOH. Statutory registration
boards regulate conditions of entry and practice in health profess-ons.  MOH is
also concerned with licensing and supervision of private hospitals and nursing
homes, pharmaceutical production and distribution, in addition to the other
federal statutory responsibilities mandated by the Constitution. The absence of
a comprehensive public health act hinders the ability of MOH to carry out its
regulatory role. In addition to research carried out by academic institutions,
MOH has an active and respected Institute of Medical Research. Health systems
research is also used by MOH to evaluate and develop its approach to the delivery
of health care.
1.12      Public Sector.  MOH is responsible for most of the development of
public health policies and their implementation. However, some health-related
areas are regulated by other ministries, such as occupational safety by the
Ministry of Human Resources. This situation requires an increasing degree of
coordination and cooperation among different ministries. MOH's central office is
concerned with program development, evaluation and resource allocation related to
district, state and national programs involving:  public health services,
including health promotion and education, maternal and child health, epidemiology
and disease control; medical services in hospitals and major health centers;
dental preventive and treatment services; pharmaceutical and medical supplies;
training of health personnel; medical research; engineering and maintenance of
health facilities and equipment; planning; and administration.
1.13      MOH has instituted a program of decentralization through the
establishment of 13 state administrations. They manage the networks of primary
health care activities based in rural midwives units, a gradation of health



-5-
centers in urban and rural settings, backed up by outpatient and inpatient
services in district hospitals. They provide a range of comprehensive preventive
and curative services, including - mily planning in rural areas, and referral
mechanisms to larger general hosp_ As, at state and national levels.
1.14      In addition to a limited range of environmental health services
provided by local government, the municipalities of Kuala Lumpur, Penang, Ipoh
and Malacca also provide maternal and child health and communicable disease
control services. The Ministry of Education operates two large teaching
hospitals in Petaling Jaya and Kota Bahru and also carries out teaching at the
Kuala Lumpur General Hospital operated by MOH.
1.15      Private Sector.  The number of doctors in private practice is
increasing and constituted 57% of the total licensed in 1990. Private practice
is concentrated in urban centers and mostly concerned with curative services.
The private sector also provided i4% of hospital beds for all purposes in the
same year. PrivatG hospitals with some exceptions tend to be small and
specialized, with an emphasis on the provision of obstetric services in urban
areas. The number of dentists and pharmacists in Malaysia is relatively small.
Most are in private practice, respe.xively 53% and 68% of the numbers registered
in 1990.
C. Health Care Resource .nd Utilization
1.16     Health Personne1.  In the past, the delivery of primary health care
relied on midwives, nursing personnel and medical assistants, with varying levels
of training and skill. They were supported by doctors based in hospitals and
major health center¢, usually located in urban centers. The number of medical
specialists was relatively small, and most were in the public sector. This low-
cost personnel composition and the provision of safe water and sanitation to
urban and rural communities were successful in controlling communicable diseases
and reducing maternal and infant mortality. However, concern with the perceived
quality of care (reflected in the significant proportion of undiagnosed cases),
and challenges presented by trauma and non-infectious diseases have led to
changes in the health workforce's composition.
1.17      In the period 1980-1990, the number of registered doctors increased by
82% while that of nurses by 53%. Population grew by 29% during the same period.
This represents a rise in health personnel per head of population and also a more
skillful and costly mixture. There were 2,500 people per doctor in Malaysia in
1990, and one medical assistant or nursing personnel in the public sector per 600
people. The supply of doctors and nurses in Malaysia is about half-way between
Thailand and Korea which have respectively 4,500 and 940 people per doctor, and
960 and 500 people per nurse. The numbers of medical specialists in Malaysia
continues to be low, in spite of recent rises in their number. For instance,
there were only 18 pathologists employed in public hospitals for 18 million
people in 1990. Most doctors are now working in the private sector, but the
number of nurses in private employment continues to be relatively small.
1.18      Access and Utilization of Services.  Malaysia has for some time
followed a policy of improving access to safe water and sanitation, to reduce the
prevalence of illness. By 1988, respectively 95% and 62% of the urban and rural



-6-
populations had access, but capacity to monitor water quality is lagging.
Although the availability of doctors is limited, 78% of mothers were provided
with some ante-natal care and 93% of deliveries were cari-_d out by trained
health personnel in 1990. Maternal mortality almost halved in the 1980s. In
general, immunization coverage of children is high but, as mentioned earlier,
there are substantial variations in geographical coverage and for different types
of vaccines. Survey data indicate that on average Malaysians make 2.86
outpatient visits per year (1986/87). The visits are almost evenly divided
between the public and the private sectors. The data also indicates that the
poor, with higher illness rates, are greater users of public than private
services, and that the use of private services increases with income. Distance
from services lowers utilization, regardless of income. Private outpatient
visits are mainly for curative services. Up to three-fold differences in the
availability of doctors per population among some states continues to cause
difficulties in the management of acute illness. The increasing numbers in the
private sector have not made a contribution in addressing the geographic
imbalance in the availability of medical services. Their distribution is less
even than that of doctors in the public sector.
1.19      In 1990, Malaysia had 2.3 hospital beds per thousand people for all
purposes (including special medical institustions) in the public and private
sectors. The supply of acute hospital beds is estimated at nearly 1.9 per
thousand, with 16% in the private sector which are mostly located in the larger
urban centers. On average, there were 1.6/1,000 acute beds in MOH and University
hospitals. The related admission rate was 77 per thousand people, with an
additional 14/1,000 in private hospitals. The average occupancy rate in public
hospitals was 64%. The low occupancy rate is partly due to past investments in
small hospitals, with small catchment areas and a limited range of services,
which has been associated with over supply in some cases. While supply ranged
from 1.3 to 2.3 bads per thousand people .mong the states, utilization varied
less around the average of 1.0/1,000. The apparent low utilization rates must be
placed in the context of the relatively young population involved. The average
length of stay was a low 5 days per admission. This reflects the increasing
:-umber of normal deliveries in acute public hospitals which is the single largest
cause of admission to public hospitals.
1.20      Medical Technology.  The emphasis placed by the public sector on
primary health care, the low degree of medical specialization in Malaysia, and
the relatively small capacity of private hospitals has restrained the
introduction and diffusion of diagnostic and other costly medical technologies.
The increasing concern of the Government with the quality of care provided in
public and private health facilities, growing expectations and disposable income,
and the swelling private sector are changing the modelling forces of the medical
system. It is important that the Government acqui-<.s expertise in health
technology assessment, and develops policies encompassing both the public and
private sectors, that will ensure the relevance of introduced technologies, and
quality and efficiency in their use, as well as equity in access by different
groups in the community.



-7-
D. Health Care Expenditure and Financing
1.21      Expenditure.  Malaysia spent 3.2% of GNP on health services in 1985.
This was considerably less than 5.2% in Korea, in the same year for similar
health outcomes, and 5.1% in Thailand for lower health outcomes, in terms of
conventional health indicators. Part of the explanation for the cost-
effectiveness of the Malaysia health system lies in the low-cost public health
approach adopted by Malaysia, which relied on public sector supply (76.5% of
total expenditure). Nevertheless, changes in the intensity of use and a more
costly personnel mixture in the public sector, as well as growth in the private
sector, have led to a growing ;--:oportion of GNP spent on health. The private
sector share in 1985 was 23.5% of the total expenditure on health. Most of the
expenditure in private sector services were for professional fees and other
charges (11.5% of total health expenditure) and pharmaceutical drugs (4.6%).
There are no reliable estimates of private health expenditure for recent years in
Malaysia. Available evidence points to a continuing growth in private services
available.
Table 1.2: Actual Operating Expenditure by Program
Ministry of Health, Malaysia
RM (Millions)
1983 - 1990
I__________  1983                 1986                1990
Programs          R
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R MM  X  _ __ X _ __ _  P M      I    _   M          Z
Public Health           179.5      21.6     247.7      22.9      295.4      22.4
Medical Care            519.8      62.5     674.0       62.4     829.4      63.0
Dental Care             43.9        5.3      58.5       5.4       69.3       5.3
Pharm., Suppl. & 0th    15.6        1.9      20.3       1.9       31.3       2.4
Admin. & Planning       22.3        2.7      26.3       2.4       33.5       2.5
Training                43.3        5.2      43.9       4.1       45.8       3.5
Research                 7.7        0.9       9.9       0.9       11.3       0.9
Total MOH              831.9      100.0    1080.4      100.0    1316.1     100.0
MOH % GNP                           1.3                 1.6                  1.2
Source: Ministry of Health, Malaysia.
1.22      MOH actual operating expenditure in 1990 was the equivalent of 1.2% of
GNP. Expenditure for medical care in hospitals and major health centers absorbed
the largest proportion of funds (63.0% plus its share of pharmacy and supplies).
Public health services, including preventive and basic health care in rural
areas, received 22.4% of the financial resources used in 1990. Programs
concerned with dental care (5.3%), training of health personnel (3.5%), planning
and administration (2.5%), pharmacy, medical supplies and other (2.4%) and
research (0.9%) account for the remainder of MOH operating expenditure. Training
of health personnel is the only program showing a substantial decline in its
share of the total over the period 1983-1990. This decline may explain the
present perceived need to increase nurse training. It also provides an
opportunity to examine possible alternatives for health personnel training
outside MOH in the education sector.



1.23      Although the proportion of the Federal budget allocated to MOH is
similar in 1980 and 1990, actual MOH capital and operating expenditures rose by
respectively 248% and 62% in real terms in 1980-1990. Some of these increases
were necessary to cope with rapid population growth. Nevertheless, over the
period, per capita actual expenditures in real terms increased by 170% and 26%
respectively. Two thirds (66.8%) of MOH operating expenses in 1990 related to
salaries and wages. There has been an actual decline in the proportion of labor
costs since 1981 (67.5%), in spite of the more costly mixture of labor resources.
This and other evidence points to a possible decline in real incomes in the
public sector over this period of time, which might have contributed to the
difficulty in retaining medical personnel in public health services.
1.24       Funding.  Federal government taxation is the major source of funds
for MOH services and hospitals in the public sector. MOH's total allocation for
development and operating expenditures from the Federal budget declined from 5.3%
in 1980 to 3.4% in 1982. It has increased since then to 5.5% in 1990. However,
MOH allocation from the Federal operating budget has dropped from 7.0% in 1980 to
5.5% in 1990. To some extent these proportional changes reflect fluctuations in
the size of the Federal budget. The observed rise in MOH operating expenditure
as a proportion of GNP in 1986 is also due to a decline in GNP in 1985-1986 due
to stringent economic conditions. The level of MOH operating expenditure at
constant prices shows a plateau in the years 1986-1987, but became a larger
proportion of a smaller whole. The essential and labor intensive nature of
public health services hindered short-term cuts in current levels of
expenditures. As GNP and the Federal budget grew again in the late 1980s, MOH
expenditure became a smaller proportion of the enlarged whole. The Federal
budget is the major source of MOH funds, as fees and other charges were the
equivalent of only 2.9% of the Ministry's operating expenditure in 1989.
1.25      Equity and Efficiency.  Recent research for Malaysia shows that:
(a) expenditures on preventive services such as safe water and immunization have
the greatest impact on health status; (b) the subsidization of health services
have a major effect on income redistribution representing up to 20% of the
imputed income of the poor; over time, the subsidy of curative services has
increasingly been used by the poor, due to the progressive shift by those in
higher income groups to the private sector. Policies aimed at reducing
dependency on public subsidies of health care need to be tempered by the
understanding of the benefits from free provision of preventive services (because
of the externalities involved), and the alleviation of poverty secured through
the supply of curative services to the poor, when they need them most. Estimates
prepared by the Bank indicate that there is some potential for increases in
charges for curative services in the public sector in Malaysia. However, the
same estimates also show substantial reductions in welfare by the imposition of
non-discriminating fees aimed at eliminating public subsidies for curative
services. Therefore, any user-fee rises should be applied in accordance with
ability to pay and protect the poor from additional losses in welfare. In view
of the demonstrated cost-effectiveness of the public health system in Malaysia,
it is important that health financing schemes aimed at the greater use of the
private sector continue to be tested against criteria of efficiency, equity and
effectiveness. The challenge faced by the Government is to take advantage of
resources in the private sector, which have higher costs, but contain potential
losses in efficiency. It will need to manage the public/private mixture and the



-9-
incomes of suppliers to avoid substantial rises in costs, due to the need to pay
higher incomes to retain essential health personnel in the less costly public
sector.
E. Government Health Policies
1.26      The Government strategies for health development, for the period
1991-2000, are set forth in the context of the Second Outline Perspective Plan
adopted in 1991. During the 1990s, the Government intends to provide for more
equitable access to an improved mix and quality of services, with increased
efficiency and effectiveness. It envisages that financial mechanisms will
encourage wider use of the private sector associated with measures to ensure
quality and efficiency in delivery. Emphasis is also given to occupational
health and safety.
1.27      These policy thrusts have been given greater specificity in the Sixth
Malaysia Plan. The Government intends to strengthen occupational health through
appropriate legislation and preventive measures; increase efforts to improve
environmental health through sanitation, especially in rural and squatter areas;
and step up surveillance of the quality of water and food. It plans to expand
immunization against disease and nutrition supplementation programs for the rural
and urban poor. Policies for c.urative services would improve outpatient services
through a program of hospital facilities expansion, and upgrading of health
centers in rural and urban areas.   Other thrusts are directed to the improvement
of diagnostic services, quality of care, rehabilitation medicine and the quality
of blood transfusion services. The Government also intends to improve access to
dental services by the poor and promote the safety and efficacy of drugs.
1.28      To support the implementation of these policy objectives, the
Government intends to increase the numbers and improve training of medical,
nursing and other personnel. The Government also seeks greater coordination of
the public and private sectors. It will continue to study and review equity,
efficiency, financing and organizational issues concerned with mobilization and
use of resources in the public and private sectors. The Sixth Malaysia Plan
contains an allocation of RM2,253 million (US$835 million), which doubled the
commitment to the health sector in the previous five-.year plan.
F. Issues and Strategies for the Future
1.29      The health status of Malaysians has improved considerably in
the 1980s. It compares favorably with neighboring countries and other developing
countries in Asia. Future health policies will need to be concerned with larger
and relevant capacity, greater efficiency and higher quality, and equity in
access to health care.
1.30      Capacity and Relevance.  It is forecast that Malaysia's population
will increase by 25% in the 1990s. This will require substantial investment in
health services capacity. It is inevitable that birth - and the events leading
to it - as well as problems of childhood will continue to be a major concern in
health policy development. Increases in ?ersonnel will be required to provide
primary health care (PHC) and institutional services for this purpose. It is
envisaged that the population 15-614 years of age will grow faster than the total



- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  - o
- 10-
population, and that the labor force will increase by 33% in the same period.
Accidents arising from growing industrialization, motor vehicle use and an active
young population will need to be haneled from two complementary perspectives:
(a) preventive occupational and other safety measures; and (b) treatment and
rehabilitation of victims, to improve their physical and social functioning. The
success in the prevention of communicable diseases needs to be maintained and
extended to emerging areas of concern related to sanitation, hygiene and body-
fluid transmitted diseases (Hepatitis B and AIDS). The need to expand capacity
to monitor the quality of water supply, commercial foods and ensure the safety of
blood products used in health services is apparent. Continuing improvament in
life expectancy and the growing number of middle-aged people will increase the
numbers suffering from chronic conditions such as heart and other disaases of the
circulatory system. Health promotion activities to minimize risk and a larger
supply of diagnostic, treatment and rehabilitation services will be required, to
meet the needs of people suffering from these conditions.
1.31      Efficiency and Ouality.  Population and epidemiological changes,
technology development and perceived need to increase efficiency and quality of
services will require selective expansion of capacity. Expansion should take
advantage of existing strengths in primary health care and add complementary
services that improve the range and quality of care. The low 64% occupancy rate
of MOH inpatient services represents a major waste of capital and operating
costs. Increasing urbanization and improvements in transport should lead to
additional lower use of past investments in smaller hospitals in rural areas.
Thus, a change in the norms and practices in the supply of hospital services
would yield major efficiency gains in the program that consumes 63% of MOH
operating costs. Growth in capacity should promote both efficiency and quality,
by extending outreach services in which scale of production does not place the
consumer at-risk, while consolidating capacity in others, where efficiency and
quality require it and transport and communications allow it. Increasing
specialization, to improve diagnosis and management of some clinical conditions
of growing importance, needs to be accompanied by deliberate policies that will
ensure quality and minimize the social costs of medical technology. The use of
cooperative efforts that involve the public and private sectors would avoid
wasteful duplication of capacity, in view of the large catchment populations
required by some medical services, and fully use existing specialists. Also,
rewards in the private sector, with 57% of the doctors, will influence the
availability of medical practitioners and their cost in the public sector. This
will be increasingly important as the composition of the health work.orce shifts
to a more costly mixture.
1.32      MOH's present preoccupation with the direct provision of services
needs to shift to more policy development, monitoring and regulation of services,
both in the public and private sectors. To allow this change in emphasis to take
place, MOH would need to take a number of innovative steps, which would include:
(a)   the implementation of Government policy on incorporation of services of a
non-regulatory nature, thus reducing MOH direct management of health services;
and (b) a reduction in the heavy load imposed by the formal training of health
personnel, by transferring it to the education sector. To effect this change in
emphasis, MOH will need additional skills in epidemiological surveillance, health
technology assessment, statutory regulation, monitoring and evaluation of the



-11-
performance of others, and in the use of financial mechanisms in the pursuit of
public health goals, through both the public and private sectors.
1.33      Eguitv.  The success of government agencies in improving the health
status in Malaysia has made more noticeable the significant inequalities that
prevail in the supply of services and health status of people in different
geographical areas. It is inevitable that people in rural areas will have a
geographical disadvantage in access to services that require large catchment
areas for efficiency and/or quality reasons, which are located in major urban
centers. Nevertheless, access to safe water by about 40% of the rural population
without it is technically possible and within reach. The same applies to the
provision of primary health care to rural populations, and qualitative
improvements in it. The uneven distribution of doctors among the states, which
ranges from one medical practitioner per 4,200 people in Terengganu to 1:1,800 in
P. Penang (excluding Kuala Lumpur with 1:700) is a major obstacle in gaining
access to skilled management of illness in some states. It also raises
substantial equity issues in the development of health financing schemes that
include equal access to medical practitioners. Concerns with the Government's
fiscal burden in the financing of health care, and the greater use of the private
sector in the provision of medical care, will need to take into consideration the
effects of user charges on the poor. Appropriate subsidies and/or easy access to
public sector services should ensure both geographical and financial access by
the poor to quality medical services.
C. Bank's Role in the Malaysian Health Sector
1.34      The Bank has supported the Malaysian health sector through two
population projects. The first population project (Loan 880-MA) was approved in
January 1973 with a loan of US$5 million. The project was concerned with the
strengthening of the national family planning program, through improved
management, emphasis on provision of rural facilities, training of health
personnel and research. Project completion was delayed due to site acquisition
and organizational problems related to planning, administrative and training
capacity. The Project Performance Audit Report mentioned that inter-agency
coordination and political commitment were additional difficulties experienced in
the completion of the project. Nevertheless, many constraints to the family
planning program were overcome under the project. The project had a major impact
on institution building, increased the number of family-planning acceptors and
improved the supply of rural health facilities and services.
1.35      The second population project (Loan 1608-MA) was approved in July 1978
with a loan of US$17 million. It had similar objectives to the first, but placed
some resources in the development of urban family planning services. The project
involved greater inter-agency coordination. The Project Completion Report states
that the constraining factors that affected slow disbursement during the first
project also affected the second project. Site acquisition continued to be a
problem and there were also conceptual differences regarding the objectives of
the program. Inter-agency coordination was a constraint too, and there were
difficulties regarding the locus of responsibility for implementation of the
project. The Project Completion Report also mentioned political commitment as
another constraint. The loan was closed in December 1984. Only US$5.9 million
or 35% of the loan had been disbursed. The balance was cancelled in July 1985.



-12-
1.36      There has been no other health-related Bank lending to Malaysia since
then. In 1989, the Government of Malaysia and the Bank entered into a health
policy dialogue prior to the identification of the project. This took the form
of analytical support by the Bank as an input to the formulation of the Sixth
Malaysia Plan. The analytical work highlighted a number of strategic areas
needing attention in Malaysia's future development of the health sector:
environmental and occupational health, equity and quality in access to primary
health care, selective introduction and diffusion of relevant medical
technologies and institutional strengthening. These concerns form part of the
Government's health strategies put forward in the Second Outline Perspective Plan
adopted in 1991 and in more detail in the Sixth Malaysia Plan. This became the
basis for the ensuing dialogue on how the Bank might support the Government in
the implementation of relevant policy objectives. The policy dialogue has been
continued during project preparation, and through analytical studies included in
the Bank's country economic work. The Bank's analytical work concerned with
public financing and the social sector is addressing inter alia fiscal issues and
potential policy options regarding financing of health services and the
regulatory role of MOH.
1.37      In view of the identified need to respond to the rise in industrial
accidents, the Government also asked the Bank for a review of the present
capacity to formulate and implement occupational health policy. A report
presented to the Government highlighted: (a) growth and structural change in
the labor force; (b) rise in compensable occupational injuries; (c) wide
compensation and limited prevention; (d) deficiencies in information for problem
identification, policy formulation and evaluation; and (e) narrow base for
policy formulation. The report also identified roles to be performed and a
process for policy formulation and coordination, which included a specified role
for the Ministry of Health. After consultation among relevant agencies, the
Government agreed with the process recommended in the report. The Sixth Malaysia
Plan emphasizes occupational health matters and specifies means to address the
problem. The project provides support for the strengthening of the role of MOH
in improving the Government's capacity to identify occupational health problems
and assess the impact of preventive programs.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.1       Following the Bank's analysis of issues related to the preparation of
the Sixth Malaysia Plan, the Government requested financial assistance from the
Bank for health sector development in the context of the Sixth Plan. A Bank
mission identified the project in May 1990, and an agreement for a Japan Grant
for project preparation was signed in November 1990. Project preparation was
carried out by the Ministry of Health and the Department of Chemistry (DOC), with
support of consultant services funded by the Japan Grant. Following preparation
missions in October :990 and April 1991, the project was pre-appraised in October
1991, and appraised in May/June 1992. Project costs and items were reviewed
during a Bank mission to Malaysia in May 1993.



1 -
-13-
B. Prolect Rationale and Oblectives
2.2       Malaysia's health sector is at the threshold of a major developmental
shift and it is appropriate for the Bank to assist Malaysia in responding to new
challenges in areas where there is limited experience. While the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) has provided significant assistance in the past as the
principal external lender to the sector -- concentrating on primary health care,
hospital development and health financing policies -- the Bank gave analytical
support in identifying and developing strategies to address emerging health
concerns during the preparation of the Sixth Malaysia Plan. The proposed project
provides an opportunity to continue policy dialogue in these areas, assist in the
selection and introduction of new health technologies, support poverty
alleviation in underserviced states and institutional strengthening. In order
for the Bank's support to have value-added impact, specific strategic areas were
identified for intervention and form the individual components of the project
design. The design has a strong prevention emphasis which is linked to the
introduction of new health technologies, where investments represent a step up in
services to meet emerging health challenges. The project will thus support a
longstanding orientation of preventive health services in Malaysia, addressing
quality improvement and reducing health risks.
2.3       The project addresses selected high priority needs for health sector
development under the Sixth Malaysia Plan, including the strengthening of
prevention programs to meet emerging environmental and occupational health
concerns, improving equitable access to primary health care (PHC), introducing
new technologies to improve quality of services and meet newly emerged priority
needs, and institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Health. Specifically
the project will: (a) increase the capacity of environmental and public health
laboratories to provide services for the monitoring of environmental health and
disease control; (b) expand and improve PHC services in three states with lower
health status; (c) improve the efficacy and safety of blood transfusion services;
and(d) strengthen MOH capacities for policy formulation, management, service
development, application of new clinical skills in selected specialties, and
giving specific attention to occupational health.
C. Project DescriRtion
2.4       Project objectives will be accomplished by implementing four
components:
(a) Environmental Health and Disease Control. The project will provide
analytical laboratory services to monitor water and food quality and
screening for a range of diseases of major public health importance.
(b) Primary Health Care. The project will upgrade and establish new
primary care facilities in three states with lower health status.
(c)  Health Technology. The project will establish a national blood
services center and equip major hospitals, to ensure the safety of
blood products.



-14-
(d)  Strengthening of MOH.   The project will provide fellowships and
technical assistance for policy and service development, and upgrading
of clinical and management skills.
Component A: Environmental Health and Disease Control.
(US$68.0 million equiNalent, including contingencies)
2.5       Environmental and other public health problems continue to be a major
concern in Malaysia. The growing use of fertilizers and pesticides and
difficulties in controlling other environmental hazards are an increasing threat
to the water supply. En'vironmental degradation and the commercialization of the
food chain are adding factors in food contamination. The Ministry of Health has
statutory responsibility for the maintenance of water and food health standards,
in addition to other public health matters concerned with diagnosis and screening
for communicable diseases and non-communicable ones, such as cervical cancer.
The Department of Chemistry, in the Ministry of Science, Technology and the
Environment, has provided analytical support to the Ministry of Health and other
ministries concerned with water and food standards. MOH has limited laboratory
capacity dedicated to public health functions in small food quality laboratories,
and uses hospital laboratories for much of the public health screening. The food
quality laboratories are inadequate and other public health laboratory needs have
to compete with patient clinical care for laboratory services in hospitals.
Hospital laboratories are often overtaxed and are not organized for public health
analytical work. In times of epidemics there is little flexibility to respond to
urgent analytical needs. Prevention programs concerned with early detection of
cervical cancer have also suffered from the lack of dedicated screening capacity,
and there are increasing needs for the screening of people at-risk of HIV and
Hepatitis. The present analytical capacity in DOC and MOH is inadequate for
present and rapidly growing needs. This component will increase the analytical
capacity in DOC and MOH for environmental and public health purposes.
2.6       Department of Chemistry (US$49.2 million equivalent).  The project
will build, furnish and equip one central environmental laboratory for DOC in
Petaling Jaya and four branch ones located in Ipoh, Melaka, Kuching and Kota
Kinabalu. Altogether, a gross area of about 31,000 square meters will be
provided in the five laboratories. Provision of consultant services for the
design and supervision of the new laboratories is included. In addition, the
project will provide equipment for the other existing laboratories in Penang,
Johor Bahru, Kuantan, Kuala Terengganu and Bintulu. The location of the
laboratories is based on population, regional transport and focal urban centers,
to provide a network that covers both Peninsular and East Malaysia. The
environmental laboratories will carry out (a) analysis of drinking water for a
full range of substances such as microbes, trace metals, pesticides and
herbicides; (b) testing of food for purity, quality, quantity and composition, as
well as contamination by infective agents or potentially toxic materials such as
herbicides, pesticides, metals and mycotoxins; (c) analysis of environmental
samples such as surface water, air, rain, soil, sediment, industrial wastes for
pesticides, herbicides, industrial organics and metals. The project will also
add capacity for analytical quality control in DOC. The central laboratory will
be concerned with water and food analysis, as well as liquid wastes, marine
samples, solid wastes, industrial hygiene and air samples. It will also handle
method development, introduction of new technology, in-house training and sample



-15-
audit. The branch laboratories will carry out water, food, air, toxicology,
industrial and forensic analytical work. It is estimated that the added capacity
could handle 1,300,000 additional tests annually, an increase of close to 100%
over 1992 capacity.
2.7       Ministry of Health (US$18.8 million equivalent).    The project will
build, furnish and equip one central public health laboratory in Sungai Buloh and
two regional ones in Ipoh and Johor Bahru. A gross area of about 11,100 square
meters will be provided by the three laboratories. To assist the Department of
Public Works (JKR) in the design and supervision of the laboratories, the project
will provide consultant services. Consultant services will also be provided for
staff training in laboratory practice and management (Annex 1). The location of
the laboratories is based on population densities, regional transport patterns,
local disease burden and risk factors, and aims to provide a national network in
Peninsular and East Malaysia, together with other existing facilities.   The new
public health laboratories will carry out analytical work related to:
(a) su-veillance of communicable diseases and management of outbreaks;
(b) screening for early detection of cervical cancer;  (c) monitoring of food
quality for microbiological and chemical contami.ants;  (d) surveillance of water
quality, especially during communicable disease outbreaks; (e) screening for
viral diseases such as AIDS and Hepatitis and other diseases of public health
importance such as typhoid and syphilis; (f) serosurveys for the monitoring of
the effectiveness of vaccines and testing of vaccine potency. The planned
laboratories will have capacity for a range of microbiology, virology/serology,
parasitology, biochemistry and other tests and the examination of pap smears.
The central laboratory will have additional functions involving method
development, introduction of technology, in-house training, and test audit as
part of a quality control and assurance program. It is difficult to estimate the
present MOH analytical capacity for the proposed functions of the public health
laboratories, at the end of the project it is estimated that capacity to handle
750,000 tests and 60,000 pap smears annually will be available.
Component B:   Primary Health Care.
(US$11.5 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.8       MOH has followed a programmatic approach in the delivery of primary
health care throughout Malaysia, which includes provision of preventive and basic
nursing and medical care to both urban and rural health populations, in
accordance with standard functions, facilities, equipment and personnel. They
have proved highly successful in serving urban and rural populations.
Nevertheless, a number of Malaysian states have improved but lag behind in health
status, and the services available to rural populations could be upgraded. This
component is concerned with improving the quality of basic health care provided
in three states with low health status. The selection of the new and upgraded
facilities was based on adjusted health status information, which showed the
lower health status of the populations to be served.



-16-
2.9       Health Care Facilities.  Health indicators show that rural areas in
the states of Kelantan and Terengganu and Sarawak lag behind in health status.
The project will build, furnish and equip the upgrading of about 7 existing
health centers and build 5 new faciliLies in these three states. The facilities
will follow standard functions and designs and equipment adopted by MOH for PHC
services, which are documented and acceptable to the Bank. Health care to be
provided in the new and upgraded facilities includes the standard range of
preventive services including environmental health services, maternal and child
health clinics, and basic diagnostic and curative medical services.
Component C: Health Technology.
(US$19.7 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.10      The epidemic of accidents has added to the need for blood products for
a multitude of other conditions, including those related to child birth. The
relatively high prevalence of Hepatitis and growing incidence of AIDS pose major
threats to the safety of blood products and the spread of diseases through them.
Blood Transfusion Services need to be coordinated and upgraded to provide safe
and adequate quantities of blood products to be in line with MOH's effort to
provide a quality service and improve health care in the country.
2.11      Blood Transfusion Services.  The project will improve the quality of
blood products for women during pregnancy, labor and the post-partum period,
neonates in need of transfusion, trauma victims as the result of motor vehicle,
industrial and other accidents, people suffering from bleeding disorders, and
other medical conditions. A national blood service center will be built,
furnished and equipped to be responsible for developing policies and practices to
ensure the safety of blood products. A gross area of about 7,600 square meters
will be made available at the center. In addition, the project will provide
equipment for about 12 major hospitals, to improve their ability to collect,
process and improve the quality of blood products. To assist JKR in the design
and supervision of the national center, the project includes consultant services.
Training of staff in blood services and management is also included (Annex 1).
The national center will coordinate the collection, production and supply of
blood products throughout Malaysia. It will be concerned wich the introduction
of technology, training and quality control and assurance. The national center
will also supply blood products for Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The
center will have facilities for blood and plasma collection, production of blood
products, blood and blood products screening and laboratory testing, education,
training and research, quality control and assurance, support services and
administration. The national center will have capacity to handle about 100,000
units of blood annually.
Component D:   Strengthening of MOH.
(US$2.1 million equivalent, including contingencies)
2.12      Major challenges are posed by changes in the nature of health risks
and status, growth in the size of the public and private sectors, health
technology development and legitimate expectations of increases in efficiency,
equity and effectiveness. MOH as the leading health agency in Malaysia needs to
strengthen its organization and human skills to take on these challenges.



-17-
Technical assistance financed by ADB and from other agencies such as the World
Health Organization are providing a degree of support to MOH.
2.13      This component will provide: (a) an overseas fellowship training
program (US$0.2 million), to be funded by the Government involving about 23
fellowships (details are included in Annex 1); and (b) a technical assistance
program of foreign consultant services involving about 40 consultancies amounting
to about 87 staff months (US$1.7 million). This will support capacity building
for: (i) policy development regarding occupational health, health technology
assessment and the structure of health care delivery system; (ii) service
development, in such areas as community mental health and day care services;
(iii) application of new clinical skills in endoscopy, ophthalmology and other
services; and (iv) management skill training (details are provided in Annex 2).
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$101.3 million
equivalent (RM258.2 million), including foreign exchange costs of about US$52.0
million and taxes and duties estimated at about US$3.0 million equivalent.
Tables 3.1 and 3.2 summarize the estimated costs by project component and by
category of expenditure, respectively. Detailed costs are provided in Annex 3.
Basis of Cost Estimates
3.2       Base Costs are expressed in June 1993 prices and were calculated as
follows:
Civil works: on approved building proposals for the various components with
acceptable area allocations and unit rates. Unit rates per square meter
for civil works (including all mechanical, electrical and plumbing
services) range from US$200-380 for basic primary health care facilities to
US$800 for the more sophisticated special facilities and laboratories.
Civil works in East Malaysia (Sabah & Sarawak) are estimated to cost 25%
over those in Peninsular Malaysia.
Furniture: on agreed lists priced for similar items available locally.
Equipment and vehicles: on agreed detailed lists priced for similar
imported or locally available items.



-18-
Fellowships (Overseas): on (a) special study programs at about US$25,000
per student-year; and (b) short-term special training at about US$5,000
(for one month training) to US$15,000 (for six mornth training) per
candidate. Estimates include travel, housing, subsistence and tuition
fees.
Building Design and Supervision Fees: on minimum fee scales for
architectural, engineering, quantity surveying, and full supervision at
about 20% of construction cost for design and supervision of prototype
buildings by international consultants to about 14% for other design and
supervision services involving repetitive elements. Design accounts for
70% and supervision for 30% of the total fee charged. No professional fees
were allowed for other PHC facilities which would be undertaken by JKR.
3.3       Contingency Allowances of US$18.6 million included in total project
costs were calculated as follows: (a) physical contingencies of US$8.1 million,
representing 10% of base costs were estimated on 11.7% allowance for civil works
and 10% allowance for furniture and equipment and vehicles categories. No
physical contingency was allowed for overseas training, professional fees and
foreign experts; and (b) price contingencies of US$10.5 million, representing
13.0% of base costs, based on the implementation schedule (Annex 4), physical
contingencies, and on expected annual price increases of: locai--4.5% for 1994
and thereafter; foreign--2.8% for 1993 and thereafter.
3.4       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
were estimated at about US$52.0 million equivalent (RM132.6 million) including
contingencies. Based on expenditures of similar projects in Malaysia, the
foreign exchange component for the major catego-ies was estimated as follows:
(a) civil works 35%; (b) furniture 24%; (c) equipment and vehicles 85%;
(d) fellowships 100%; (e) professional fees 70%; and (f) technical assistance
100%.
3.5       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes estimated at about RM7.7 million
(US$3.0 million equivalent) were based on the current import duties mainly on
imported building equipment and materials. Equipment and materials directly
imported for the project would be exempt from taxation. Locally procured items
directly purchased for the project would also be exempt from taxation.



-19-
Table 3 J: Summary of Project Costs by Component
RM Million                   USS Million                X        2
Compcnent                         Local   Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign    Total    Foreign  Base
A. Environmental Health
1. Department of Chemistry   52.2          49.4    101.6       20.5      19.4      39.9          49    48
2. Ministry of Health           19.5       19.1     38.6         7.6      7.5      15.1          50      18
Subtotal A                  71.7       68.5    140.3        28.1     26.9      55.0           49    67
B. Primary Health Care
1. Health Care Facilities       13.3       11.3     24.5        5.2       4.4       9.6          46    12
C. Health Technclogy
1. Blood Transfusion Service 13.4          27.5     40.9        5.2      10.8      16.0          67    19
D. Strengthening of MOH               -        5.0       5.0         -        2.0      2.0          100      2
Total Base Costs                   98.3      112.4    210.7        38.6     44.1      82.6           53   100
Physical Contingencies             10.7       10.0      20.7        4.2       3.9      8.1           48    10
Price Contingencies                16.6       10.2      26.8        6.5       4.0     10.5           38    13
Total Costs ja                    125.6      132.6    258.2        49.3      52.0    101.3           51   123
Note: Figures in this and subsequent tables may not add due to rounding.
La     Includes US$3.0 million equivalent in identifiable taxes and duties.
ThalL 3,2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Caregory of                                RM Million                    USS Million              Z         I
Expenditure                       Local   Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign    Total    Foreign  Base
A. Civil works                     80.1       42.6    122.7        31.4      16.7     48.1           35    58
B. Furniture                        4.3        1.3       5.6        1.7      0.5       2.2           24      3
C. Equipment and vehicles           8.7       48.9      57.6        '.4     19.2      22.6           85    27
D. Fellowships                       -         3.3       3.3         -        1.3      1.3          100      2
E. Design/Supervision               5.2       12.2      17.4        2.1       4.8      6.8           70      8
0. Technical Assistance               -        4.1       4.1         -        1.6      1.6          100      2
Total Baoe Costs                   98.3      112.4    210.7        38.6     44.1      82.6           53   100
Physical contingencies             10.7       10.0      20.7        4.2      3.9       8.1           48    10
Price contingencies                16.6       10.2      26.8        6.5      4.0      10.5           38    13
Total Costs                       125.6      132.6    258.2        49.3     52.0    101.3            51   123
-~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ -__- 



-20-
B. Financing
3.6       The total project cost of US$101.3 million will be financed through
the proposed IBRD loan of US$50.0 million covering 100% of foreign exchange
costs (excluding the fellowships program) representing about 51% of the total
project cost, net of taxes and duties. The Government will finance the
remaining US$51.3 million in local costs and corresponding foreign costs for
the fellowships program, including US$3.0 million of estimated taxes and
duties, through budgetary appropriations to the Department of Chemistry and
the Ministry of Health to cover capital expenditures under their respective
project components. To permit DOC to proceed with advanced procurement
associated with the equipping of its laboratories, retroactive financing of up
to US$1.6 million equivalent will be provided for eligible expenditures
incurred prior to loan signing but after May 1, 1993. The financing plan is
detailed in Table 3.3 as follows:
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
% Share
GOM                              IBRD
Categury of                                        Sub-              La    Finan-
Expenditure                        DOC     MOH   t tal    IBRD   Total    cing
Civil Works                       22.4    18.7    '41.1    19.8    60.9       33
Furniture                          1.1     1.1      2.2     0.6      2.8      23
Equipment and vehicles             1.5     2.8        3    22.8    27.1       84
Fellowships                         -      1.4      L.&       -      1.4       -
Design and Supervision             1.4     0.9      2 3     5.0      7.3      69
Technical Assistance                -        -       -       1.7     1.7    100
Total                         26.4    24.9    51.3    50.Q   101.3       50
Above totals for civil works and furniture include identifiable taxes and
duties estimated at US$3.0 million equivalent.
/a Total costs including contingencies.
a   About 51% of project costs net of taxes and duties.



-21-
3.7       Incremental Recurrent ExRenditures are estimated to account for about
25% and 1% of DOC and MOH budgets respectively, when the project becomes fully
operational in 1999. They have been estimated on the basis of projected
increments in personnel and goods and services required. Although the proportion
of the increase in DOC appears substantial because of the relatively small size
of the Department, it is substantially smaller than the estimated increment in
MOH operating expenses in absolute money and personnel terms. Incremental
recurrent expenditures from the proposed investments should be comfortably met
within the Government's financial capability.
Sustainability
3.8       The Government has significantly increased resource allocation for the
health sector in the Sixth Malaysia Plan, which indicates strong commitment to
sector development the project would support. During project preparation, human
and financial resources for the operation and maintenance of the capacity being
created by the project were identified and estimated. Relevant training and
technical assistance form part of the project to improve skills to deal with new
technologies. As indicated below, the project will require RM258.2 million over
the five year implementation period. The GOM will provide RM130.7 million in
counterpart funds and the Loan will provide the balance of RM127.5 million
(US$50.0 million equivalent). Annual breakdown of above requirements by agency
are estimated as follows:
Table 3.4: Annual Budgetary Requirements for Capital Investments
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998    Total
---------------------RM Million --       ----
GOM/DOC                        3.1       4.7      20.3     29.2     10.0      67.3
IBRD                          12.8       9.7     11.5      19.2      4.9      58.1
Subtotal                 15.9      14.4     31.8      48.4    14.9    125.4
GOM/MOH                        3.4      12.1     20.3      21.1      6.5      63.4
IBRD                           3.0      14.2     14.9      24.8     12.4      69.3
Subtotal                  6.4       25.2               45.9    18,9    132.7
Total GOM (DOC+MOH)            6.5      16.8     40.6      50.3     16.5    130.7
Total IBRD                    15.8      23.9     26.4      44.0     17.3    127.4
Grand Total                   22.3    6407.7      670      94.3     33.8    258.
In addition to the normal planning and implementation considerations, the project
was designed to distribute expenditures more evenly throughout the five year
implementation program, although the peak expenditure in 1997 could not be
avoided without undue postponement of activities.



-22-
Procurement
3.9       The loan proceeds will be used to finance procurement of the following
expenditure categories:
(a) Civil Works (US$60.9 million equivalent). Civil works contracts
costing US$5 million equivalent or more will be procured under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Contracts falling under this category and totalling
about US$39.8 million (65% of all civil works) will be the: (i) DOC
Central and Branch Laboratories; and (ii) Blood Transfusion Center.
Malaysia has a developed construction industry to undertake the
remaining 35% of the civil works contracts, which will be less than
US$5.0 million each, ranging from US$0.2 to US$4.7 million under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with Treasury procedures, which
are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign bidders will be allowed to
participate in LCB if interested.
(b)  Furniture (US$2.8 million equivalent).  Furniture under the project
comprise traditional items (desks, tables, chairs, beds, storage
cabinets, etc.) for Primary Health Care facilities, and similar items
for the Laboratories and Special facilities. However, as procurement
of furniture will be decentralized for the Primary Health Care
component, and the need to coordinate with the construction progress of
individual buildings for the other facilities, contracts are expected
to be modest (ranging from US$0.02 to US$0.3 million). Consequently,
most procurement will be on the basis of LCB in accordance with
Treasury procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Off-the-shelf
items not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for each package and
aggregating to a maximum of US$0.6 million, can be purchased through
local shopping on the basis of competitive price quotations from at
least three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines.
(c)  Equipment and Vehicles (US$27.1 million equivalent).  Bid packages
costing US$500,000 equivalent or more will be awarded on the basis of
ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. The nature of the equipment
lends itself to attractive packaging for ICB which will comprise 64% of
the total value of equipment under the project. Local manufacturers
will be given a margin of preference in bid comparison of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual customs duty, whichever
is lower. The remaining 36% of equipment comprise items readily
available in Malaysia through numerous local agents and at competitive
prices. Contracts for this equipment costing less than US$500,000
equivalent each, will be procured through Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) under government procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank
and aggregating to a maximum of US$6.0 million. Off-the-shelf items
not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for each package and aggregating to
a maximum of US$3.9 million, may be purchased through shopping on the
basis of competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers
eligible under Bank guidelines.



-23-
(d) Fellowships (Overseas) (US$1.4 million equivalent). This component
will not be financed by the Loan. However, placement of candidates in
foreign institutions will be made on the basis of relevance and quality
of the programs offered, costs, and prior experience. MOH will manage
all project related foreign programs according to an agreed training
plan and schedule (Annex 1).
(e) Design and Supervision Services for the Civil Works (US$7.3 million
equivalent). Foreign and Local Consultants for Architectural Design,
Engineering, Quantity Surveying and Full Supervision Services. Foreign
consultants for the design and supervision of the specialized
facilities, namely, the: (i) DOC Central and four Branch Laboratories;
(ii) MOH Central and two Regional Laboratories under the direction of
JKR; and (iii) MOH Blood Transfusion Center also under the direction of
JKR, will be engaged on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
technical proposals invited from a list of at least five
internationally known firms with particular expertise and experience in
the type of building involved and eligible under the Guidelines. In
the case of MOH, these consultants will work closely with JKR who will
be the executing agency for the MOH buildings. In the case of DOC, the
international consultants will be expected to team up with a local
firm, as required under local regulations. The Loan will finance about
69% of the total costs of the private firms engaged. JKR's services
will be free.
(f) Technical Assistance (US$1.7 million equivalent) will be provided
through international consultants hired to assist the MOH in policy and
services development, and clinical skills and management training. All
procedures for selection and employment of foreign and local
consultants will be in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
3.10      Procurement procedures to be used for the above categories are
indicated in Table 3.5.
3.11      Bank Review.  The following will be subject to Bank review prior to bid
advertisement: (a) Preliminary architectural designs for all prototype
facilities under the project; (b) terms of reference, letters of invitation for
consulting services (local and foreign consultants); (c) master equipment lists
indicating proposed packaging and cost estimates; (d) standard bidding documents
for ICB and LCB for civil works and goods; and (e) works contracts estimated to
cost more than US$1.0 million equivalent and goods contracts estimated to costs
more than US$0.5 million equivalent. On this basis, prior review will cover
about 85% of the value and 43% of the estimated number of contracts for civil
works, and about 57% of the value and 30% of the estimated number of contracts
for goods. Other contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews.
Annex 5 shows procurement, Bank review and withdrawal thresholds for each
expenditure category.



-24-
Table 3.5: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                       ICB       LCB     Other/c    N.B.F   Cost /a
Works
Buildings
DOC                           33.7                                  33.7
(11.2)     -         -           -    (11.2)
MOH                            6.1     21.1       -           -     27.2
(1.9)    (6.6)                        (8.5)
Goods
Furniture
DOC                            -        1.2       0.2         -      1.4
-       (0.3)    (0.0)               (0.3)
MOH                            -        1.1       0.4         -      1.5
-       (0.2)    (0.1)         -     (0.3)
Equipment and vehicles
DOC                            5.1      2.0       2.6         -      9.7
(4.3)    (1.7)    (2.2)         -     (8.2)
MOH                           12.2      4.0       1.3         -     17.5
(10.2)    (3.4)    (1.1)         -    (14.7)
Consultancies/Services
Architectural and Engineering
Design and Supervision /b
DOC                                               4.4                4.4
(3.1)              (3.1)
MOH                            -        -         2.8         -      2.8
-        -        (2.0)              (2.0)
Overseas Fellowships               -         -        -           1.4    1.4
-         (0.0)  (0.0)
Technical Assistance               -         -        1.7         -      1.7
(1.7)              (1.7)
Total                             57.1     29.4      13.4         1.4  101.3
(27.6)   (12.2)   (10.2)       (0.0) (50.0)
,a  Totals represent total estimated costs per category including physical and
price contingencies.
/b~ Professional fees for full services including quantity surveying.
/c  Includes international and local shopping and direct purchase, and consultant
services.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.



-25-
Disbursements
3.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million will be disbursed over a
period of about six years. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the
Closing Date of December 31, 1999, and will be made against the following
categories of expenditures covering the selected components and activities to be
financed under the proposed loan: (a) civil works--33% of total expenditures; (b)
furniture--23% of total expenditures; (c) equipment--(i) 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported goods; (ii) 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory) for locally manufactured goods; and (iii) 75% of local expenditures for
other goods procured locally; (d) professional fees--69% of total expenditures;
and (e) technical assistance--100% of total expenditures.
3.13      The program and disbursement forecast is feasible considering the
degree of advance preparation and the Government's commitment to the proposed
investments. Moreover, the proposed forecast closely follows the disbursement
profile for the Malaysia Education Sector (Annex 6).
3.14      Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for consulting
services, and for goods with a contract value of US$500,000 equivalent or more
and for works with a value of US$1,000,000 equivalent or more will be supported
by full documentation. Contracts below the above thresholds will be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), for which supporting documents will be
maintained by DOC and MOH Project Implementation Units. Each of these Units will
be responsible for aggregating the eligible expenditures under each budget and
for preparing withdrawal applications for submission to the Bank. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of US$100,000
equivalent or more, prior to submission to the Bank.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project PreRaration
4.1       The project has been prepared by DOC and MOH with the support of
consultants funded from a Japan Grant, and has involved lengthy and detailed
technical and administrative preparation by operational, managerial and senior
executives of DOC and MOH, relevant central agencies, and foreign experts with
experience in the service areas, and architectural, engineering and quantity
surveying skills. Functions and supporting organizational arrangements have been
identified and documented. Final design briefs have been completed by
international experts for all the specialized facilities (the Laboratories, and
the Blood Services Center) which included detailed cost estimates, preliminary
plans and masterlists of equipment. Prototype plans for the Primary Health Care
facilities have been designed by JKR in consultation with MOH. Orientation
workshops on procurement have been organized by the Bank for staff of both line
and core agencies. Standard bidding documents and a procurement plan have been
prepared by both agencies (DOC and MOH) with the assistance of consultants under
the Japan Grant. Implementation phasing of building operations and for equipment
procurement and installation has also been prepared. In addition, the needs for
personnel and other recurrent costs have been costed and documented. The Bank
has been assured that the land for the sites of the facilities in the project are



-26-
owned by the Government and have been reserved for the identified purposes. The
Government provided the Bank, at the time of negotiations, confirmation that it
owns all the sites identified for the project.
B. Organization and Management
Management Structure and Functions
4.2       Ministry of Health will implement the components concerned with
primary health care, health technology and strengthening of MOH and the public
health laboratories sub-component, while the Department of Chemistry in the
Ministry of Science, Technology and the Environment, will implement its sub-
component concerned with the environmental health laboratories. The Economic
Planning Unit, in the Prime Minister's Department, and the Federal Treasury will
provide overall coordination through their central roles in the allocation of
resources, oversight and review of progress in the attainment of the Government's
development plans. The organizational structure for project implementation in
each executing agency will have two main elements: (a) policy and oversight to be
carried out by a Project Implementation Committee; and (b) on-going
implementation activities to be undertaken by a Project Implementation Unit.
4.3       Project Implementation Committees.  The individual committees in MOH
and DOC will be concerned with policy, major resource allocation and quality
control, and ensuring that plans and programs are duly executed.  These
committees will be chaired by the most senior officers in MOH and DOC
respectively. Membership will include representatives of the Economic Planning
Unit, the Federal Treasury, Public Works and Public Service departments. In each
case, MOH/DOC division and state directors, as appropriate, would also have
representation on these committees (the organization charts of MOH and DOC are
provided in Annex 7 and Annex 8 respectively). The committees would meet twice
each year.
4.4       Proiect Implementation Units (PIUs).  Under the existing management
structure of MOH and DOC, the main responsibilities of the two PIUs will be:
(a) provision of support to their respective Project Implementation Committees;
(b) coordination with user groups; (c) liaison with the Bank and other involved
agencies; (d) administration of centralized procurement under standardized
methods and procedures; (e) administration and coordination of technical
assistance services; (f) guidance for the design of civil works and overseeing
construction activities; (g) accounting, bookkeeping and financial administration
of expenditures and loan proceeds; (h) preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications to the Bank; (i) arrangement for timely audits of project accounts;
and (j) monitoring of progress and preparation of semi-annual reports to MOH, DOC
and the Bank.
4.5       In addition, the PIUs will obtain professional services to assist with
civil works and equipment procurement. Consultant architects, engineers,
quantity surveyors and equipment planners will undertake/assist design, prepare
contract documents, assist in the evaluation of bids, and supervise/assist during
implementation. They will also assist in the equipment procurement process,
involving: (a) assessment of equipment lists and preparation of detailed



-27-
specifications; (b) procurement planning including packaging of items and
phasing; (c) determination of procurement methods, terms and conditions of
contracting, and bidding documents; (d) evaluation of bids received; and (e)
receipt, testing and installation. Experienced advisers will particularly be
needed during the bidding and evaluation process of sophisticated medical and
scientific instruments and computers.
4.6        Department of Chemistry.  DOC will establish a Project Implementation
Committee to be chaired by the Director-General with the functions oltlined. A
PIU will also be established in DOC responsible to the Director-General for the
implementation of the DOC component. The establishment of the PIU will add
considerably to the management capacity of DOC to implement its development
program, which at present has no specifically dedicated locus or resources. This
unit will include a project coordinator and three small function areas dealing
with: (a) procurement (equipment and furniture); (b) finance and accounting; and
(c) civil works with access to/or seconded officers from JKR. The PIU
coordinator will be responsible to the DOC Director General for overall planning
and coordination of project activities (Annex 9). The establishment of the
Project ImDlementation Committee and of the PIU. including the staffing of key
functions. will be conditions of loan effectiveness.
4.7        MinistrY of Health.  MOH will also create a Project Implementation
Committee to be chaired by the Secretary-General (who may be represented by the
Deputy Secretary General when unable to attend any meeting). The existing PIU in
the Division of Planning and Development (DP&D) in MOH, which was created to
manage ADB assisted projects will act as the PIU for MOH components. Its
existing capacity will be strengthened to reflect the additional burden generated
by this project. The areas for specific strengthening will include
administrative coordination among the relevant divisions in MOH, finance,
procurement and clerical assistance. Additional seven staff will be concerned
with finance and accounting, project implementation and procurement functions.
The Government will also make adequate budgetary provision for the support of the
enlarged PIU, for such expenses as travel and general maintenance. The PIU will
work closely with JKR that will oversee the building program under delegated
authority from MOH. The functions of the PIU are presented in Annex 10. The
establishment of the Proiect Implementation Committee and the strengthening of
the staff of the existing PIU will be conditions of loan effectiveness.
4.8       Planning groups with representation from relevant MOH services and
divisions were organized during project preparation and have been actively
involved in the design of each MOH component/sub-component. They will continue
their advisory work during project implementation in close cooperation with the
PIU. Particular efforts will be made to ensure that the needs and requirements
of end-users are met and that agreed criteria are followed. Advisory groups for
each of the following components will provide valuable inputs into project
implementation. These groups will operate for the benefit of the: (a) Public
Health Laboratories; (b) Primary Health Care facilities; (c) Blood Transfusion
Services; and (d) Fellowship and Technical Assistance programs.
4.9       Thesa advisory groups will work closely with the PIU on: (a) Civil
Works: ensuring that identified needs are met, facilitating liaison with users,
facilitating passage of information to design consultants, and arrangements for



-28-
final acceptance of buildings; (b) EquiRment and Furniture Procurement: ensuring
that identified needs are met and reviewing and revising master lists if
necessary; (c) Fellowships: reviewing and revising drafted candidate selection
criteria and procedures if necessary, assisting in identifying and selecting
candidates and training institutions, and assisting in evaluating the programs;
and (d) Technical Assistance: reviewing and revising terms of reference, if
necessary, assisting in identifying and selecting experts or institutions to
provide technical assistance services, and contributing to their evaluation.
4.10      Accounts and Audits.  Separate project accounts will be prepared and
maintained by the Project Units in accordance with sound accounting practices.
The format of the accounts will be designed to reflect project breakdown as
indicated in the project cost tables. Accounts and documentation supporting SOEs
will be maintained separately and will be readily available centrally for review
by visiting Bank missions. Project Accounts and SOEs for each fiscal year will
be prepared and audited in accordance with normal government accounting
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited
accounts for each fiscal year, consolidated to a single auditor's report for each
of the implementing agencies (DOC and MOH), will be furnished to the Bank as soon
as available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year
(September 30).
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out at three levels:
(a) performance in the implementation of project inputs; (b) project impact on
output; and (c) evaluation of overall project outcomes. The first will be
carried out by the PIUs, in their normal course of activities in implementing the
project. The second will assess project impact by monitoring and evaluating
through performance indicators and targets. This will be somewhat limited, as
key project inputs would not be in place until the end of the implementation
period. The last will essentially be the overall evaluation of the project at
completion.
4.12      Monitoring Implementation of Project Inputs.  To monitor and compare
annual plans, targets, and project estimates, with actual progress, the DOC and
MOH PIUs will hold regular reviews. The purpose of these meetings will be to
coordinate implementation activities, review project progress, make necessary
adjustments to reflect realities and changed situations, and discuss problems and
actions needed. Standard reporting formats making use of a computerized
management system should be developed to facilitate this review process. The
Project Implementation Committees (MOH and DOC) will convene twice a year (June
and December) to review the overall project direction and progress. They will
also produce a report, which should be incorporated in the PIUs' semi-annual
progress reports to be submitted to the Bank in July and January each year. In
addition to the regular and semi-annual review meetings, DOC and MOH will
organize a project implementation review each year (mid-year) when the budget for
the next year is being prepared for submission to the Federal Treasury. The
reviews will include representatives of the Economic Planning Unit and Federal
Treasury. They should evaluate past performance and agree on the next year's
plans and budget requirements. Plans for each component will include a detailed
breakdown and scope of proposed inputs, planned procurement and training



-29-
activities, and arrangements for the provision of technical services. DOC and
MOH will also hold a mid-term Project implementat!on review in late 1996.
4.13      Assessing Proiect Impact.   In order to assess the impact of the
different components of the project, capacity targets have been documented for
DOC and MOH Environmental and Public Health Laboratories, and the National Blood
Services Center. Measurement of actual output will be used to assess impact on
the volume of work done against the established targets. In the case of Primary
Health Care, MOH maintains records of attendances/services provided at each
health facility. These will be used to assess impact on services provided to
local populations. In addition, MOH also compiles indicators of health status
related to the services that it provides. These indicators will be used in
conjunction with output indicators to form a rore rounded assessment of impact
(Annex 11). Overall evaluation of the project will be carried out after project
completion. It will involve a comprehensive evaluation of the implementation of
the project's inputs, as well as the overall impact in terms of the
outputs/utilization from the improved capacity and outcomes in terms of health
status.
4.14      Bank Supervision.  Bank supervision missions, in addition to reviewing
and documenting implementation progress, will also be providing assistance in the
process. in this respect, and in view of the multi-faceted nature of thie
project, Bank supervision will require resources considerably in excess of those
normally allocated. The project involves highly specialized facilities requiring
careful review by scientific and medical technology experts for several
disciplines. Moreover, the geographical dispersion of the Primary Health Care
component adds to the burden of supervision. This wide coverage will require
expertise in various fields and, most important, effective coordination.
Periodic Bank supervision missions to the field will therefore require the
assistance of consultants who are practicing experts in various medical fields
and scientists familiar with the state-of-the-art in their fields. In addition,
while Bank staff have held workshops on procedures and processes for procurement
and loan withdrawa' applications, they will need to continue assistance in these
areas since the proposed project will be the first Bank-assisttd project to be
implemented by the DOC. The MOH has more project implementation experience
through the management of large ADB projects, but it has not dealt with the Bank
for some years now and little institutional memory of that experience remains
with the present staff. Consequently, a total of 100 staff-weeks will be
required for field supervision of the project, comprising missions of 8-12 staff
weeks at six-month intervals during the first two years and at 9-month intervals
thereafter. A detailed supervision plan is presented in Annex 12.
D. Environmental Aspects
4.15      There are no significant environmental issues associated with the
project.  The design of the environmental and public health laboratories make
provision for the appropriate handling of materials and disposal of wastes, which
could serve as models for similar future investments. The project will have
positive environmental aspects, including supporting development of occupational
health and safety policies, improving the capacity for surveillance of
environmental health, and enhanced quality of water supply, food and sanitation.



-30-
E. Program Obiective Categories
4.16      Poverty Alleviatioii.  Sustainable progress on poverty alleviation
requires a strategy that places emphasis on two equally important and mutually
reinforcing elements: promoting the productive use of the poor's labor, and
providing basic social services to the poor. The Primary Health Care component
of the project would support this strategy by upgrading existing health centers
and building new facilities in targeted rural areas of three states (Kelantan,
Terengganu and Sarawak) with low average household incomes and health status.
These facilities would improve access for the poor in the targeted areas to the
standard range of preventive services and basic diagnostic and curative medical
services.
4.17      Impact on Women.  In general, women will benefit from the project's
emphasis on preventive services for the general population. In addition, the
project has features that will benefit women in particular, such as the services
for maternal and child health in rural areas. Women will also benefit from the
screening for early detection of cervical cancer to be carried out by the public
health laboratories. The improvement of the quality of blood products through
this project will also benefit women who are major users during pregnancy, labor
and postpartum periods. The project will also provide employment opportunities
for women in the PHC system, in the laboratories and other services.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
5.1       The project will increase capacity to monitor environmental and public
health and improve occupational health and safety. The quality of services to
mothers and children will be enhanced through improvement in primary preventive
and curative services in targeted areas with low health status. The improvement
of basic health services will also make a contribution to poverty alleviation in
three selected states. The use of blood products will be made safer in view of
the present threat of AIDS and Hepatitis. The project will also have a
demonstration effect in the introduction of priority health technology, and
strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to formulate, develop and
implement policies.
B.  Risks
5.2       The managerial capacity of DOC to implement its component is a risk
that must be addressed by the provision of appropriate support. The
establishment of a PITJ in DOC is a condition of loan effectiveness, and special
attention will be given during supervision to the management of the DOC
component. Technical aspects of the project will require continuing attention.
To minimize any risks the project has gone through lengthy and detailed technical
and administrative preparation made possible through a Japan Grant. The
technical effort in preparation will be followed by intensive technical
supervision during implementation.



-31-
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   Agreements Reached
6.1       During negotiations the Government gave assurances that:
(a) will maintain throughout the implementation period of the project the
two Project Implementation Committees in the Ministry of Health and
the Department of Chemistry (paras. 4.3 through 4.7);
(b) will maintain throughout the implementation period of the project the
two Project Implementation Units in the Ministry of Health and
Department of Chemistry (paras. 4.3 through 4.7);
6.2       Prior to effectiveness of the loan the Government will:
(a) establish a Project Implementation Committee and a Project
Implementation Unit in the Department of Chemistry and appoint key
staff to the unit (paras. 4.3 through 4.7);
(b) establish a Project Implementation Committee and increase the staff of
the existing Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Health by
an additional seven staff concerned with finance and accounting,
project implementation and procurement functions (pdras. 4.3
through 4.7).
6.3       Retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.6 million equivalent will be
provided for eligible expenditures incurred before loan signing but after May 1,
1993 (para. 3.6).
B. Recommendation
6.4       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for a Bank loan for US$50.0 million equivalent to Malaysia at
the standard variable rate for a term of 17 years including a grace period of
5 years.



-32 -                                Annex 1
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fellowships Program
Course                                       Totals
Dura-                                   Number
t3on                Phasino           of Candi- Staff-
Sublect Area             Beneficiarv Staff/Unit         (Mos.)        Yr-1 Yr-2 Yr-3 Yr-4 Yr-5    dates  Months
Component A: Environmental Health & Disease Control
Epidemiology             Medical Officers of Heaflth         1 Candid.  3   3   2   2    0             10
S/M     3    3   2    2    0                   10
Cytology                 Specialists/P. H. Labs              3 Candid.  1   1   0   0    0              2
S/M     3   3   0    0   0                      6
Cytology                 Medical Lab Technicians/P. H. Labs  3 Candid.  2   2   2   2    0              a
S/M     6   6   6   6    0                     24
Food Quality Control     Medical Officers of Heath/P. H. Labs    12 Candid.  1   1   1   0   0          3
S/M    12  12  12   0    0                     36
Food Quality Control     Food Technologists/P. H. Labs      12 Candid.  1   1   1   0    0              3
S/M    12  12  12   0   0                      36
Lab Management           Medic. Lab. Technologists/P. H. Labs  3 Candid.  1   0   0   0   0             1
S/M     3   0   0   0    0                      3
Component C: Health Technology
Heamatology 1/           Medical Officers/8TS               12 Candid.  3   3   3   3    0             12
S/M    36  36  36  36   0                     144
Heamatology 2/           Medical Officers/BTS               12 Candid.  0   0   2   2    0              2
S/M     0   0  24  24    0                     48
Heamatology 3/           Medical Offlcers/BTS               12 Candid.  0   0   0   2    2              2
S/M     0   0   0  24   24                     48
Quality Assurance        Scientffic Officers/BTS             6 Candid.  2    1    1   0   0             4
S/M    12   6   6   0    0                     24
Component D: Strengthening MOH
Database Development     Professional Offlcers/MOH          2 Candid.  1   0   0   0    0               1
S/M    2    0   0   0    0                      2
Quality Assurance        Professional Officers/MOH           3 Candid.  2    1   1   1   0              5
S/M     6   3   3    3   0                     lb
Teaching Methodology     Medical Officers/MOH                3 Candid.  1   1   1   1   0               4
S/M     3   3   3   3    0                     12
Technology Assessment    Professional Officers/MOH           3 Candid.  2    1   1   0    1             5
S/M     6   3   3   0    3                     15
Orthopedic Rehabilit     Orthopedic Surgeons/MOH            12 Candid.  0   2   0   0    0              2
S/M     0   24   0   0    0                    24
Orthopedic Rehabilit     Phystotherapists/MOH               12 Candid.  0   0    1   0   0              1
S/M     0   0   12   0    0                    12
Occupatonal Health (Epid.)  Medical Officers of HealtiVOccup.  6 Candid.  2    1   1   1   0            5
S/M    12   6   6   6    0                     30
TotWs                                       Candid. 22  18  17  14    3             70
S/M   116  117  125  104  27                  489
1/ 12-month training for 12 medical officers
2/ 24-month training for 2 medical orficers startng on third year
3/ 24-month training for 2 medical officers stardng on fourth year
FELLOSI.WK1              October30, 1993



33 -                                      Annex  2
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Prog ram
Totals
Dura-                                      Number
tion                  Phasina                of      Staff-
Subiect Area                      Beneficiary Unit   (Mos)            Yr-ITr-2 Y-r-4 Yr-5   Experts Months
Policy Development
Health Technology Assessment      MOH                     1.5  Experts    -    2              -           2
S/M           3              -                    3
Occupational Health               Health/Occupatonal      1.5  Experts    -        2    2    -            4
S/M      -    -    3    3                         6
Service Development
NutrItin Services in PHC          Health/Family Health     3  Experts         1    *          -           1
S/M           3            -                      3
Mental Health Serces in PHO       Health/Family Health     3  Experts                                     I -  1    -
S/M      -    -         3    -                    3
Quality Assurance - Blood Services    Hospitals/Blood Bank  1 Experts    -    1          -    -
S/M      -    1            -                      1
Day Care/Surgery                  MOH                      1 Experts          2    2       -              4
S/M      -    2    2         -                    4
Birthing Centers                  MOH                      1 E.perts    -    2    2    e    -             4
-/M           2    2         -                    4
Clinical Skills Training
Gastro-Enterology Endoscopy       Hospitals/KLGH            1 Experts       -      1    1    -            2
S/M           -    1    1    -                    2
Ophthalmology Clinical Services   Hospitals/KLGH          1.5  Experts      -      2    2                 4
S/M      -         3    3    -                    6
Plasmapheresis - Blood Services   Hospitals/Blood Bank     2  Experts    *    1       -    -              1
S/M           2    -                              2 -  2
E. N. T. Clinical Services        Hospitals/KLGH           4  Experts    .    1    -    1    -            2
S/M      .    4         4                         8
Management Skills Trainina
Human Resource Management         Training/PHI             3  Experts    -         1    1                 2
S/M        -       3    3                         6
Stretegic Planning for Hospitals  Training/PHI             3  Experts      I-      1          -           2
S/M                3    3                         6
Hospital Information Systems      Training/PHI             3  Experts              1    1    -            2
S/M                3    3                         6
Teacher Training (PHI)            Training/PHI              3  Experts    -    1   2    1                 4
S/M      -    3    6    3    -                   12
Distance Learning (PHI)           Training/PHI             3  Experts         1    -1
S/M      -    3       -      -                    3
Computer Service Development (PHI)  Training/PHI           3  Experts    *    1   2    1                  4
S/M      -    3    6    3    -                   12
Totals                            Experts        13  16   12    *           41
S/M      -   26   32   29    -                   87
TECHAS.WK1
04-Jul-93



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components
(RM Million)
Environmental
Health                   Health
Ministry           Technology
Dept. of     of      Primary    Blood                             Physical
Chemistry  Health   Health  Transfusion Strengthening          Contingencies
Labs      Labs      Care     Service         MOH       Total   %    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                 67.1       24.9    18.5         12.2              - 122.7   11.7   14.4
B. Furniture                    2.7        1.0     0.4          1.5              -   5.6   10.0    0.6
C. Equipment & Vehicles        21.3        7.4     5.6         23.3              -  57.6   10.0    5.8
D. Fellowships                    -        0.9       -          1.5            0.9   3.3       -      -            t
E. Design/Supervision          10.6        4.4       -          2.4              -  17.4       -      -
F. Technical Assistance           -          -       -            -            4.1   4.1      -       -
Total BASELINE COSTS               101.6       38.6    24.5         40.9            5.0 210.7    9.8   20.7
Physical Contingencies            10.4        3.8     2.5          3.9              -  20.7       -      -
Price Contingencies               13.3        5.5     2.4          5.3            0.3  26.8    9.5    2.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                125.4       47.9    29.4         50.2            5.4 258.2    9.0   23.2
Taxes                              4.3        1.6     1.1          0.8              -   7.7   10.4    0.8
Foreign Exchange                  58.1       22.9    13.3         33.0            5.4 132.6    8.2   10.9
Mon Jul 12 14:12:03 1993
3-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components
e (D
x
w
-.



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(RM Million)             (US$ Million)       Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Environmental Health
Dept. of Chemistry L3bs         52.2    49.4   101.6    20.5    19.4    39.9           49        48
Ministry of Health Labs         19.5    19.1    38.6       7.6      7.5    15.1        50        18
Subtotal Environmental Health    71.7    68.5   140.3    28.1    26.9    55.0             49        67
B. Primary Health Care              13.3    11.3    24.5      5.2      4.4      9.6       46        12
C. Health Technology
Blood Transfusion Service       13.4    27.5    40.9       5.2    10.8    16.0         67        19
Subtotal Health Technology          13.4    27.5    40.9      5.2    10.8    16.0         67        19
D. Strengthening MOH                   -     5.0      5.0        -     2.0      2.0      100         2
Total BASELINE COSTS                 98.3   112.4   210.7    38.6    44.1    82.6           53      100
Physical Contingencies            10.7    10.0    20.7       4.2      3.9     8.1        48        10
Price Contingencies               16.6    10.2    26.8       6.5      4.0    10.5        38        13
Total PROJECT COSTS                 125.6   132.6   258.2    49.3    52.0   101.3           51      123
Mon Jul 12 14:11:39 1993
1-1 Project Cost Summary
rvr2
x
0
OQ 



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(RM Million)              (US$ Million)        Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                80.1    42.6   122.7    31.4    16.7    48.1            35        58
B. Furniture                   4.3      1.3     5.6      1.7      0.5      2.2        24         3
C. Equipment& Vehicles         8.7    48.9    57.6       3.4    19.2    22.6          85        27
D. Fellowships                   -      3.3     3.3        -      1.3      1.3       100         2
E. Design/Supervision          5.2    12.2    17.4       2.1      4.8      6.8        70         8
F. Technical Assistance          -      4.1     4.1        -      1.6      1.6       100         2                      1
Total BASELINE COSTS               98.3   112.4   210.7    38.6    44.1    82.6             53      100
Physical Contingencies           10.7    10.0    20.7        4.2     3.9      8.1        48        10
Price Contingencies              16.6    10.2    26.8        6.5     4.0    10.5         38        13
Total PROJECT COSTS               125.6   132.6   258.2    49.3    52.0   101.3            51       123
Mon Jul 12 14:11:49 1993
2-1 Proje^t Cost Summary
(D fD
0



MPALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Base Cost (RM Million)                Base Cost (US$ Million)
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total
A. Environmental Health
Dept. of Chemistry Labs       14.5  12.6  25.7  37.8  11.1 101.6   5.7   4.9  10.1  14.8   4.4  39.9
Ministry of Health Labs        1.3   3.6  11.6  16.2   5.9  38.6   0.5   1.4   4.5   6.4   2.3  15.1
Subtotal Environmental Health  15.8  16.2  37.3  54.0  17.0 140.3   6.2   6.3  14.6  21.2   6.7  55.0
B. Primary Health Care            2.8   9.9   9.1   2.2   0.6  24.5   1.1   3.9   3.6   0.9   0.2   9.6
C. Health Technology
Blood Transfusion Service    1.0   7.6   6.9  17.1   8.3  40.9   0.4   3.G   2.7   6.7   3.2  16.0
Subtotal Health Technology        1.0   7.6   6.9  17.1   8.3  40.9   0.4   3.0   2.7   6.7   3.2  16.0
D. Strengthening MOH              0.9   1.8   1.2   1.1        -   5.0   0.3   0.7   0.5   0.4       -   2.0
Total BASELINE COSTS              20.5  35.5  54.5  74.4  25.9 210.7   8.0  13.9  21.4  29.2  10.1  82.6
Physical Contingencies           1.3   2.8   5.9   8.0   2.7  20.7   0.5   1.1   2.3   3.1   1.1   8.1
Price Contingencies              0.6   2.4   6.6  12.0   5.2  26.8   0.2   0.9   2.6   4.7   2.1  10.5
Total PROJECT COSTS               22.4  40.7  67.0  94.4  33.8 258.2   8.8  16.0  26.3  37.0  13.3 101.3
Taxes                            0.2   0.8   2.7   3.1   0.9   7.7   0.1   0.3   1.1   1.2   0.4   3.0
Foreign Exchange                16.5  24.9  27.9  45.6  17.8 132.6   6.5   9.8  10.9  17.9   7.0  52.0
Mon Jul 12 14:20:18 1993
1-1 Project Components by Year
(D D
x
X.)
0
P-J



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies (RM    Totals Including Contingencies
Million)                             (US$ Million)
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total
A. Environmental Health
Dept. of Chemistry Labs        15.9  14.4  31.8  48.4  14.9 125.4   6.2   5.6  12.5  19.0   5.8  49.2
Ministry of Health Labs         1.3   4.0  14.4  20.6   7.6  47.9   0.5   1.6   5.6   8.1   3.0  18.8
Subtotal Environmental Health  17.2  18.4  46.2  69.0  22.5 173.3   6.8   7.2  18.1  27.1   8.8  68.0
B. Primary Health Care             3.2  11.6  11.1   2.7   0.7  29.4   1.3   4.6   4.4   1.1   0.3  11.5
C. Health Technology
Blood Transfusion Service    1.0   8.8   8.4  21.4  10.6  50.2   0.4   3.4   3.3   8.4   4.1  19.7
Subtotal Health Technology         1.0   8.8   8.4  21.4  10.6  50.2   0.4   3.4   3.3   8.4   4.1  19.7
D. Strengthening MOH               0.9   1.9   1.3   1.2        -   5.4   0.4   0.8   0.5   0.5         -   2.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                22.4  40.7  67.0  94.4  33.8 258.2   8.8  16.0  26.3  37.0  13.3 101.3                       w
Mon Jul 12 14:20:28 1993
2-1 Project Components by Year
0



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Base Cost (RM Million)                 Base Cost (US$ Million)
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works               2.8  14.4  45.1  47.9  12.5 122.7   1.1   5.6  17.7  18.8   4.9  48.1
B. Furniture                   -   0.1   0.3   2.9   2.3   5.6        -   0.0   0.1   1.1   0.9   2.2
C. Equipment & Vehicles   10.2  12.2   5.5  19.9   9.8  57.6   4.0   4.8   2.2   7.8   3.9  22.6
D. Fellowships              0.5   0.6   0.8   0.9   0.4   3.3   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.2   1.3
E. Design/Supervision       6.3   6.7   1.8   1.7   0.9  17.4   2.5   2.6   0.7   0.7   0.3   6.8
F. Technical Assistance   0.6   1.5   1.1   1.0          -   4.1   0.2   0.6   0.4   0.4         -   1.6
Total BASELINE COSTS             20.5  35.5  54.5  74.4  25.9 210.7   8.0  13.9  21.4  29.2  10.1  82.6
Physical Contingencies          1.3   2.8   5.9   8.0   2.7  20.7   0.5   1.1   2.3   3.1   1.1   8.1
Price Contingencies             0.6   2.4   6.6  12.0   5.2  26.8   0.2   0.9   2.6   4.7   2.1  10.5
Total PROJECT COSTS              22.4  40.7  67.0  94.4  33.8 258.2   8.8  16.0  26.3  37.0  13.3 101.3
Taxes                           0.2   0.8   2.7   3.1   0.9   7.7   0.1   0.3   1.1   1.2   0.4   3.0
Foreign Exchange               16.5  24.9  27.9  45.6  17.8 132.6   6.5   9.8  10.9  17.9   7.0  52.0
Mon Jul 12 14:20:44 1993
3-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years
e :>
x
CPN 
0
-.



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Totals Including Contingencies (RM    Totals Including Contingencies
Million)                             (US$ Million)
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works              3.2  17.1  56.1  62.1  16.8 155.2   1.3   6.7  22.0  24.3   6.6  60.9
B. Furniture                  -   0.1   0.3   3.7   3.1   7.3        -   0.1   0.1   1.4   1.2   2.8
C. Equipment & Vehicles  11.5  14.1   6.6  24.5  12.5  69.2   4.5   5.5   2.6   9.6   4.9  27.1
D. Fellowships              0.6   0.6   0.8   1.0   0.4   3.5   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.2   1.4
E. Design/supervision       6.5   7.1   2.0   2.0   1.0  18.6   2.5   2.8   0.8   0.8   0.4   7.3
F. Technical Assistance   0.6   1.6   1.2   1.1         -   4.4   0.2   0.6   0.5   0.4        -   1.7
Total PROJECT COSTS             22.4  40.7  67.0  94.4  33.8 258.2   8.8  16.0  26.3  37.0  13.3 101.3
Mon Jul 12 14:20:58 1993
4-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years
~D(D
(D (D
x
t-t



41-                                       Annex  4
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Key Activities
Calendar Years             CY93          CY94          CY95         CY96          CY97          CY98           CY99   -
Quarters              1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4, 1  2  3  4  1  2  3  41 1  2  3  4
IBRD Fiscal Years                 F94    I   FY95                                                   
Malaysian Fiscal Years     FY93          FY94    I    FY95          FY96          FY97    1      FY98    |FY99
ProJect Years          Prep. Year        1            2             3             4             5
Department of Chemistry (DOC)
Equipment Procurement
Bidding Docum.
Procurement Plan      g'g 4
Packaging                gg;fss     Ph sel Ph  es l  Ph se  il
Bid Invitations
Opening/Evaluaton/Awards  Adv. P  c.        4                      . 4     4
Delivery/Installation   
Laboratories
Bidding Docum. (ICB/LCB)   " 4
Selecton of Design Cons,     .2 
Design                                   ..... 4
Contract Documents                     !NZ
Tender Phase I (Central                            5  4                       Phise I
Constructon Phase I                   I I     I
Equipping/FurnishingPhasel 
Tender Phase ll (Branch)                                  4                   Ph se I
Construction Phasel_                                     I    EHI
Equipping/Furnishing Phase _I
Ministry of Health (MOH)I
Eguipment Procurement       f  4
Bidding Docum. (ICB/LCB)     4
Procurement Plan
Packaging                        4                           Ph se1        Phase II
Bid Invitations
Opening/Evaluation/Awards                                           4             4
Delivery/Installation
Laboratorv
Bidding Doc. (ICB/LCB)       4
Selection of Design Cons.   .     4
Design
Contract Documents
Tender Phase I (Central)                           14 P_ seL
Construction Phasel                        I I
Equipping/Furnishing Phase I
Tender Phase ll (Regional)                        |                           Phseel
Construction Phasell                   I                         E I_
Equipping/Furnishing Phase 11                                                      . ...l ..
_ l Ii   _ MI,1 _                  I   _     I-[.L   



-42-                                         Annex  4
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Key Activities
Calendar Years             CY93          CY94          CY95           CY96          CY97          CY98          CY99
Quarters              1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
IBRD Fiscal Years                 FY94    I    FY95    |    FY96    I    FY97    I    FY98               FY99
Malaysian Fiscal Years     FY93    |    FY94            FY95          FY96                                      FY99
Project Years          Prep. Year        I             92           3
Primary Health Care Facilities                  T ill
Design sS    . 
Contract Documents
Tender                             Y                           w -4
Construction
Equipping/Furnishing                                                                          .. |<"<..;
Blood Transfusion Centef
Selection of Consultants      g  4
Design                               f§                                    
Contract Documents                       'S           |
Tender                                  l          0 |
Construction
Equipping/Furnishing                                                               M
Fellowships Program (Cand/S-M)         (22 116      | (1 811 i     (17,125   |   (14104 |   (34 7)
Candidate Selection
Placement                               |
Study Period                                     f ;
Technical Assistance Program  (ExP/S-                (13,26)       (16 32)       (1229)
Needs Identiflcaton        s
Expert Identification                              K M    |      S. W
Expert Selecton/Appointment              $  4 r           4             4
Service Period
Bank Clearances    4
Phases:   DOC: I-Central Lab; Il-lpoh & Melaka; III-Kuching & Kota Kinabalu
MALIMP7.WKI                                     MOH: I-Central Lab; Il-lpoh & Johor Bahru
November 12, 1993



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procursment, Bank Review Withdrawal Documentation Thresholds
(Figures in US$ Million)
%Fin.          |         LCB -_                 Other               Bank       Withdrawals|
Category             Estim.    By      ICB            Thres- Aggreg. 1        Thres- Aggreg.  PriorReview| Full  Under
Cost 1/   Bank   Amount Amount  hold   i Umit  Amount | hold    Umit  Tresh.   2/  Docum. SOEs
Civil Works            60.9     33%    39.8   21.1   < 5.0   21.1                              >1.0   85    >1.0  < 1.0
MOH                  27.2  _           6.1    21.1            21.1          _                                _
Furmiture               2.9     23%              2.3                     0.6   < 0.1     0.6   > 0.5  66%    > 0.5  <0.5
MOH                   1.5                       1.1 -                  0.4             0.4                _      -   __
Equipmen             27.2  100% FE    17.3    6.0           5    6.0     3.9    < 0.1    3.9   > 0.5    %[  > 0.5  < 0.5
DOC              |{   9.7  100% EF     5.1      2.0            2.0    2.6              2.6
MOH              ||  17.5 |75% OL |12.2    4.0                 4.0      1.3            1.3
DesignH  Supervis       7.2     69%                                      7_                    > 0.1  100%    All
DOC                   4.4                                              4.4
MOH                   2.81_  _ _ __           _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _      2.8 1                I__  _  __ __
Technical Assistance            100%                                      1.7                   >0.1  1  
M O H                 1.7 1   __ _ _   _ _   . _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _       .7 _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ __ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _
Total              1   99.9              5  ||  29.41                    13.4                                      1
DOC                  4923.k                    3.2~                    7.2                                                            >
MOH              1   507      _      131   26.2 6|2 _               _ _ 7          _        _       _     _                          |
1/ Total cost including confingencies                                                                                                   n
21 Percentage covered by Bank Prior Review
O:MAALHLTHKTHRESH.WKI       October 3D, 1993



-44 -                                 Annex 6
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
1/j    2/ SProject                           Malaysia
Quar-   Year/         Disbursements        Education Profile
ters  Semester Absolute  Cumul.   %                  %
2   1994/2        1.4       1.4   3%               0%
4   1995/1        1.6      3.0   6%                3%
6   1995/2        2.0      5.0  10%                6%
8   1996/1        3.0      8.0  16%                6%
10   1996/2        4.0     12.0  24%               14%
12   1997/1        6.0     18.0  36%               26%
14   1997/2        4.0     22.0  44%               30%
16   :998/1        6.0     28.0  56%               42%
18   1998/2        5.0     3;.l0   66%             54%
20   1999/1        6.0     39.0  78%               58%
22   1999/2        5.0     44.0  88%               70%
24   2000/1        4.0     48.0  96%               82%
3/    .26. 2000/2         2.0 .   50.0  100% -             86%
28   2001/1                                        98%
30   2001/2                                       100%
I/ From approval date
2/ IBRD fiscal years and semesters
3/ Last disbursement
Disbursement Graph
60-------
50    -  -                                          AA-0 -
9       ~~40
.2                                                  X
,) ~30<
69,
20____   _____X_
10   -             I         '               I
1994/2  1995/2  1996/2  1997/2  1998/2  1999/2  2000/2  2001/2
1995/1  1996/1  1997/1  1998/1  1999/1  2000/1  2001/1
IBRD Fiscal Years
O Appraisal Forecast    O Mal. Educ. Profile
MALDISB2.WKI                                                             11-12.93



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Or anization of the Ministry of Health (MOH)
Padliamentaiy Setary
Secretary General
Director General         
Deputy                       Deputy                        Deputy               Deputy      
Sec. General                 Sec. General                  Dir. General          Dir. General  |      Dir. General
Finance                    Serv. & AdminJ              Heath Sen. Dev.      Medical Sees           u Suppri
Finance  Accounts     &3          InStae                                                         meoca
Adv Isleafor     dit                                          InsUbons
MOHORG13.WK1     Oober30. 1993



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Oraanization of the Department of Chemistnr (DOC) in the Ministry of Science, Technologiy and Environment
Director-General
[ Deputy Director-General
rensc             ealth         Customs          Pollut on              Applied              Training,           Administration
- D  sIon        Division          sii]on         Division              Chemistry            Research &
DMsion               Develop.
_Divison
Branch Laboratoies
DOCORG.WVKI     September 10,1992



-47 -                        Annex 9
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization & Funtions of the Deepartment of Chemisty (DOC) Project Implementation Unit
* General administration
* Overall planning & schedulling  'Proiect Coordinator
* Annual workplans & priorities           (PIU) .
* Coordination of project activities  ,;_-__ i___ :_-__
i Reviews/approvals
- Progress reporting
* Project audits (accounts & SOEs)
= Liason with the Bank & Govt.
* Supervision ot consultants's work
* Budgeting & cost control
rou   et  cin    ~              Finance A' Accounting            CvlWrk   et
_(qupmnt&Furniture)--               Section,~7                                   7
* Procurement planning         * Project accounts              * Implementation schedulling
* Drafting model bidding docum.   * Payments                   * Drafting model bidding docum.
* Equipment packaging          * Withdrawal applicabtons       * Supervision of consultants' work 2/
* Bidding process & contracting    * Contract records          * Bidding process & contracting
* Coordinaton of delivery & install. * Coordinaton of Audits   * Monitoring constructon progress
* Technical assistance coordination * Expenditure monitoring
* Technical & scientific support    * Overall progress monitoring
* Expend./disbursement monitoring
1/ Under the direction of JKR
2/ Architects/Engineers/Quantity Surveyors
OOCPtU2.WKI    OtdobWr29, 1S3



- 48 -                         Annex 10
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization & Funtions of the Ministry of Health (MOH) Project Implementation Unit
* General administration
* Overall planning & schedulling    -  Project Coordinator
* Annual workplans & priorities           (PIU)
* Coordination of project activities
* Reviews/approvals
* Progress reporting
* Project audits (accounts & SOEs)
* Uason with the Bank & GovL
* Supervision of consultants's work
* Budgeting & cost control
Procuremernt'Sec"tion          Finance & Accounting           :-Civil Works eto
(Equipment & Furniure)                 Section                            11
* Procurement planning         * Project accounts              * Implementation schedulling
* Drafting model bidding docum.   * Payments                   * Drafting model bidding docum.
* Equipment packaging          * Withdrawal applications       * Supervision of consultants' work 2V
* Bidding process & contracting    * Contract records          * Bidding process & contracting
* Coordination of delivery & install. * Coordination of Audits  * Monitoring construction progress
* Technical assistance coordination * Expenditure monitoring
* Technical & scientific support    * Overall progress monitoring
* Expend./disbursement monitoring
* Fello rships coordination
1/ Under the direction of JKR
2/ Architects/Engineers/Quantity Surveyors.
MOHPIU2.WXI    Octobr2B, 1993



- 49 -                               Annex 11
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Component/Sub-component                                   Indicator
Environment*l Health and Disease Control           Number of tests performed
Number of pap smears examined
Incidence of disease related to water and
food contamination
(cholera, thyphold, food poisoning and
dysentry)
Mortality due to cancer of cervix
(age/sex adjusted)
Primary Health Caret
Health Facilities                                  Number of visits
Infant mortality
child mortality
maternal mortality
Health rechnology:
Blood Transfusion Services                         Number of Blood Units
Number of donors found to have diseases
screened for
Strengthening of IOH:
Training                                           Number of fellowships
Technical Assistance                               Number of consultancies



MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field Supervision Plan
Calendar Years                C Y93                CY4                   Y95                CY96                           CY97                 J,S        Y99
Quarters              1 1       1          1        21ZLL]4E4I4,,- j97I-I2  1                                               Ii 
IBRD Fiscal Years                        FY-9        I                             Y96         j1       Y971          1    .       I       j      I           IY99ZFYOO
Quarters                         I    2_  31                         4    1             1                              12112                                 
Malaysian FiclYasF9Y4FY9                                                                     FY96                FY97                 FY98                  F9
Project Years             Prop .Year     L____12                                    ___ 3                        4                      ____    _________
Estimates In Staff-Weeks
Field Supervisions                         1/   -     J 2/                               4/                                             71                   81  Total
Task Manager                           2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5             2.5                                           2a5                  3.0 
Architectlimplementatlon Specialist    2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5             2.5                                            2.5                 3.0
Procurement Specialist                 1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0             1.0                                            0.0                 0.0
Laboratories Expert                    2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0             2.0                                            2.0                 2.0
Prlmary Health Care Specialist         1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0             1.0            1.              1.0             1.0                 2.0
Medical Technology Specialist          2.0        1.0       2.0       1.0             2.0            2.              2.0 j           2.                  2.0
Disbursement OfficerISOE Audit         0.0       0.0        0.0 I     2.0             0.0            2.0             0.0            a20o                 0.0
Totals               11.0      10.0       11.0      12.0            11.0           13.0             8.0           12.0                 12.0  100.0
Annual Totals (Malaysian FYs)                         21.0                 23.0                11.0                 21.0                 12.0                  12.0
FY93                FY94                 FY95                 FY96                 FY97                FY.98
Annual Totals (IBRD FYs)                   11.0                 21.0                 23.0                 13.0                 8.0                 12.0
1/ InitIa Supervision Mission
2f Interim Mlsaions
3/ IntefIm Missions
4/ Mld-Trmi Review
S/ IntedIm Missions
6/ IntedIm Missions
7I Interdm Missions>
8/ Final SupervIsion/Completion Mission
CD
MALSPN.WR1
08-Jul.93



- 51 -
Annex 13
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Environmental Health Laboratories.  Department of Chemistry, May 1992.
2.    Proposal for Public Health Laboratories Component.  Ministry of Health,
May 1992.
3.    Project Proposal for World Bank Funding: Primary Health Component.
Ministry of Health, April 1992.
4.    National Blood Service Proposal.  Ministry of Health, April 1992.
5.    Proposal Document: National Spinal Injury Centre.  Ministry of Health,
May 1992.
6.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance.  Ministry of Health, May
1992.
7.    Department of Chemistry Laboratories: Design Brief.  Parkin Consultants,
February 1992.
8.    Public Health Laboratories: Design Brief. Parkin Consultants, January
1992.
9.    National Blood Service Centre: Master Plan.  McConnel Smith & Johnson,
May 1992.
10.   National Spinal Injury Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre: Master Plan.
McConnel Smith & Johnson, February 1992.
11.   Malaysia Health Development and Efficient and Equitable Resources
Allocation. World Bank, December 1989.
12.   Occupational Health Policy Development and Practice in Malaysia.  Thomas
K. Ng, World Bank, February-May, 1991.



- 52 -                          Annex 14
Page 1 of 10
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 1
Population and Population Density
By State
Malaysia 1990
State                    Population     Area2      DensitSY
_____________________  Thousands*    in  KM      in  KM
Perlis                       187.6        795        236
Kedah                      1,412.0      9,426        150
Penang                     1,141.5      1,031       1,107
Perak                     2,222.4       21,005       106
Selangor                   1,981.2      7,956        249
Kuala Lumpur               1,231.5        243       5,068
Negeri Sembilan              723.9      6,643        109
Melaka                       583.4      1,650        354
Johor                      2,106.7      18,986       111
Pahang                     1,056.1      35,965        29
Terengganu                   752.0      12,955        58
Kelantan                   1,221.7      14,943        82
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA       14,620.0    131,598        111
Sabah                      1,472.7      73,711        20
Sarawak                    1,670.3     124,449        13
MALAYSIA                  17,763.0    329,758         54
* Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Source:  Department of Statistics



53                                    Annex 14
Page 2 of 10
IALAY$IA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 2
Live Births and Death Rates per Thousand People
Malaysia 1970 - 1990
Per Thousand People
Year
Year____________________  Live  Births                   Deaths
1970                        33.7                          7.0
1980                        30.9                          5.3
1985                        31.9                          5.0
1986                        31.0                          4.8
1987                        29.7                          4.6
1988                        30.0                          4.7
1989                        27.1                          4.7
1990*                        28.0                         4.7
Source: Department of Statistics, Malaysia
*     The number of live births and deaths In 1990 were
respectively 497,500 and 83,200.
Statistical Annex Table 3
Maternal, Neonatal, Infant and Child Mortality
Malaysia 1970 - 1990
Year              Mortality Rates per 1,000 Live Births            Rate per 1,000
Children I - 4
Maternal         Neonatal           Infant              Child
1970              1.40             21.4              39.4                4.3
1980               .60             14.2              23.9                2.1
1987               .24              9.4              14.6                1.1
1989               .23              8.7              13.4                1.0
1990              .34*              8.6              13.3                 0.9
*Based on figure of maternal deatlS in MOH report for 1990.
Source: Department of Statistics, Malaysia



- 54 -                                         Annex 1.4
Page 3 of 10
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 4
Causes of Certified Deaths
Percentages of Total
Malaysia 1984 - 1990
Percentage of Total
Causes of Death (ICD Class.)                          Certifid
1984         1990
Diseases of Circulatory Syst. (390-459)                   26.8         28.1
Accidents, Pois. & Violence (E800-E999)                   12.6         13.5
Neoplasms (140-239)                                       10.2         10.8
Cond. Orig. Perinatal Period, Pregnancy, Birth &
Puerperium (760-779, 630-650)                             10.2          9.0
Infectious and Paras. Dis. (001-139)                       9.4          5.8
Symptoms, Signs & Ill-Def. Cond. (780-799)                 8.0          6.8
Pneumonia, Infl., Bronc., Emph. & Asth. (480-493)          3.0          4.0
Congenital Anomalies (740-759)                             2.9          3.3
All other (Remainder 001-799)                             12.8         18.7
Total Certified Deaths                                   100.0        100.0
Total Certified as Z of all deaths recorded                38.7        41.2
Total Non-Cert. as S of all deaths recorded                61.3        58.8
Total Deaths Recorded                                     100.0       100.0
Source: Dqatmeat of Statistics. Maaysia



-55                               Annex 14
Page 4 of 10
MALAYSA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 5
Industrial and Road Accidents
Cases per 1,000 People
Malaysia 1983-1990
Accidents per 1,000 People
Year          Industrial           Road Accidents
Accidents
1983              3.77                5.32
1984              4.00                5.27
1985              3.94                5.23
1986              4.28                4.95
1987              4.63                4.65
1988              5.20                4.32
1989              6.19                4.34
1990              6.82                4.96
Source:  Department of Statistics, Malaysia



-56  -                                      Annex  14
Page 5 of 10
MAIAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL.1ANNE
Statistical Annex Table 6
Ten Principal Causes of Hospitalization
Government Hospitals
Percentages of Total
Peninsular Malaysia 1985 - 1990
1985                                                       1990
Cause ([CD Class.)                         % ToWl          Cause (ICD Clas.)                            % Total
Normal Delivery (650)                           18.6       Normal Delivery (650)                            19.1
Complic.Pregnancy (630-676 excl. 650)          10.4        Complic.Pregnancy (630-676. oxcl. 650)           11.1
Certain Cond. Orig. in Perinatal Period (760-779)  S.1     Certain Cond. Orig. in Perinat Period (760-779)   5.2
Presnancv- related causes                      34.1        Prenancv - related causes                        35.4
Accidents (E800-E929)                          12.9        Accidents (B800-E929)                            10.1
Dis. Digestivo Syst. (520-579)                  7.3        Dis. Ciro. Syat. (390-459)                       6.0
Dim. Respiratory Syst. (460-519)                6.6        Dis. Respiratory Syst. (460-519)                 6.8
Sympts, Signs & M1. (780-799)                   6.4        Dim. Digestive Syst. (520-579)                   5.5
Dis. Circ. Syst. (390 459)                      6.0        Sympts. Signs & 111. (780-799)                   5.2
Dis. Urinary Syst. (580-599)                    4.8        Intest. Infect. (010-017)                        3.8
Mental Disorders C290-319)                      2.9        Dim. Uriary Syat. (580-599)                      2.3
81.0                                                        75.1
Other Causes                                   19.0        Other Cauwes                                     24.9
ALL CAUSES                        100.0                     ALL CAUSES                         100.0
Source: Minimty of Hedth, Malysia



- 57 -                        Annex 14
Page 6 of 10
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 7
Selected Communicable Diseases
Incidence per 100,000 People
Malaysia, 1989
Disease                                 Incidence per 100,000 People
Cholera                                              2.3
Typhoid & Paratyphoid                                9.3
Food Poisoning                                      10.2
Dysentery (all types)                                3.7
Tuberculosis (all types)                            61.6
Leprosy                                              1.9
Diphtheria                                           0.2
Whooping Cough                                       0.1
Tetanus                                              0.3
Polio
Measles                                              5.9
Dengue Fever                                         7.3
Dengue Haemorrhagic Fever                            1.2
Viral Encephalitis                                   0.3
Typhus                                               1.1
Malaria                                            376.2*
AIDS                                                 0.03
Viral Hepatitis                                      3.4
Source: Ministry of Health, Malaysia
* The incidence of Malaria for Peninsular Malaysia is 118/100,000,
Sarawak 51/100,000 and Sabah 3,347/100,000.



-  58  -                                    Annex  14
Page 7 of 10
ALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 8
Immunization Status
Malaysia, 1990
Vaccine                                       % Coverage
Triple Antigen                                                     89.9
(3rd Dose)
Polio                                                              89.6
(3rd Dose)
Hepatitis B                                                        86.2
Infants)
Meases                                                             70.1
BCG                                                                97.0
(Tnfants)                                    _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _
Source: Ministy of Health, Malaysia



-  59  -                                      Annex  14
Page 8 of 10
MALAYSIA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 9
Nursing Personnel
Malaysia 1980 - 1990
Year            No. Registered Nurses           No. Reg. Assist. Nurses              Nursing Pers.: People
1980                   15,891                           8,239                               570
1985                   20,258                           10,935                               503
1986                   21,009                           11,195                              500
1987                   22,179                           11,366                              493
1988                   22,925                           12,007                              485
1989                   23,733                           12,343                              481
1990      1            24,364                           12,578                              480
Source: Ministry of Health, Malaysia
Statistical Annex Table 10
Medical Personnel
Malaysia 1980 - 1990
Year                  No. Regisered Doctors               Doctor: Peoplo                % in Private Sector
1980                          3,858                           3,917                           48.9
1985                          4,939                           3,175                           54.9
1986                          5,394                           2,987                           58.4
1987                          5,794                           2,852                           57.5
1988                          6,294                           2,700                           57.5
1989                          6,577                           2,638                           57.7
1990                          7,012                           2,533                           56.9
Source: Ministry of Health, Malaysia.
Statistical Annex Table 11
Dentists
Malaysia 1980 - 1990
Year                  No. Registered Dentists            Dentist: People               % in Private Sector
1980                           691                           19,920                          44.4
1985                          1,041                          15,064                          46.1
1986                          1,130                          14,256                          50.9
1987                          1,220                          13,546                          52.9
1988                          1,288                          13,153                          53.4
1989                          1,401                          12,3g6                          53.2
1990                          1,471 M                        12,075                          53.0
Source: Ministry ot T alth, Malysa



- 60 -                                         Annex 14
Page 9 of 10
MALAYSI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 12
Pharmacists
Malaysia 1980 - 1990
Year              No. Registered Pharmacists              Pharnacist : People             % in Private Sector
1980                                                           28,498                            67.1
483
1985                         843                               18,602                            S9.7
1986                         963                               16,728                           61.4
1987                        1,050                              15,739                            64.3
1988                        1,084                              15,628                           66.7
1989                        1,170                              14,831                            68.8
1990                        1,239                              14,337                           67.8
Source: Ministry of Health, Malaysia
Statistical Annex Table 13
Hospital Beds per Thousand People
Malaysia
1985  - 1990
Year                                               Beds per Thousand People
Public                        Pnivate                          All
1985                           2.2                            0.3                            2.56
1987                           2.1                            0.4                            2.49
1989                           2.0                            0.3                           2.38
1990                           2.0                            0.3                            2.32
Source: Ministy of Health, Malaysia. World Bank estimates.
*Includes beds in special institutions concerned with mental ilneu and for other purposes, as well as hospitals for special
populations such as the armed forces and aboriginal peoples, and those in csutea and mines.



-61 -                          Annex 14
Page 10 of 10
MALAY5IA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Statistical Annex Table 14
Distribution of Expenditure on Health Care
Malaysia 1981 - 1985
1981           1985
ExRenditure on Health by Sector:
Public                                          77.3            76.5
Private                                         22.7            23.5
Total Expenditure        100.0           100.0
Expenditure on Health by Type:
Preventive                                       8.0            8.3
Curative                                        81.4            84.0
Other                                           10.6            7.7
Total Expenditure        100.0           100.0
Private Sector Expenditure as % Total:
Professional Fees to Doctors and Other           3.3            11.5
Drugs and Pharmaceuticals                        1.8            4.6
Other                                           17.6            7.4
Total Private Sector Expenditure          22.7            23.5
Expenditure on Health Care as % of GNP           2.7            3.2
Source: NHSF Study, 1984/8S. EPU, Prim. Minisaer's Department, Malaysia.



MAP SECTION



F.
MOThS



r '                                                   0.                                                   108I'                                                 1;2*  IBRD 24086F
MALAYS IA
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                 PHILIPPINES
-8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
THAILAND                                                                                   DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY (DOC)          ROADS                                                                                      /
ib,                                                                               0       CENTRAL LAD                          RAILROADS                                                                                 4 ,_ 
0       BPANCH LAB                          RIVERS
OMINISTRY OF HEALTH IMOH)     --    STATE BOUNDARIES
A *     CENTRAL LAB                 --    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A \  ^  REGIONAL LAB
U    BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTER
Alor SetO                        Kota Shatu                                                MMARY HEALTH CARE STRENGTHENING
0           10o         200         300          400
PFoNO'sAO 0 N              >   9  \(   AKuolosfnwonu                                                                     KILOMETERS
lu~o Tr*ngganuj
RAK                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRUNEI                               Bkot
7Z.~~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mv
P1 H A   C'   Kuntan                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
Port Kic                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA                                                               Bitutu                         I
Endos                                                                                                                                           _           IAW  A.
glINGAPORE
|   *uolo  S hio m X   $                               ~~~~~       ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~I N  D O      N  E  S  I A\--                                           ,        
IN DONESIA                                                                   f        D        s staff                                                                        S clussAfy fA I N D OE SI
tho              is for Ho intet  of The W7 Id
Batk Grp. The deaosswtia wed ond e bo.ador.s shown on thw                                                        KA  I / MA  N  TA  N
mp do ml mh*,of the pod of the Wold BOk Grp. any judgn.
104'                  =1h".V'.he oI  of any rewimory o, any andonsatrot or ocoise of                           112'                                                      1*0
OCTOBER 199*3



