Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7219
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
(CR. 863-ZA)
April 28, 1988
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture Division
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CDC       -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
CDO       -   Coffee Development Officer
ERR       -   Economic kate of Return
PAO       -   Food and Agricultural Organization
GRZ       -   Government of the Republic of Zambia
IDA       -   Intternational Development AssocTation
INDECO    -   Industrial Development Corporation
LINTCO    -   Lint Company of Zambia
MAWD      -  Ministry of Agricultural and Water Development
NCDP      -   National Commission for Development Planning
RMESA     -   Regional Mission in Eastern Africa and Southern Africa
RUCOM     -   Rural Commercial Companies Limited
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Program
ZCCL      -   Zambia Coffee Company Linited
ZIMCO     -   Zambia Inoustrial and Mining Corporation
ZECCO     -   Zambia Engineering and Contracting Company
ZES       -   Zambia Engineering Services Ltd.



FOR OFYXCIA  US ON4LY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. Z0433
U.S.A.
Opwgmuwm Evuluatim
April 28, 1988
MEHORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zambia Coffee
Production Proiect (Credit 863-ZA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
Project Completion Report on Zambia Coffee Production Froject (Credit
863-ZA)' prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
IThis document has a rstred distribution and my be used by r2cipients only in the performanc
|of their offi l duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Y/orld Bank authorization.|



FOR OFFICIL UU ONLY
ZAZBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT (CR. 863-ZA)
Project Comwletion Report
Table of Contents
Page
Basic Data Sheet.................... ll
Evaluation Suimnary ....................  iv
1.   INrODUCTION.o..o@@*..o *.o       **@.**.oosess**.seeee@o@..ees ..   1o .
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, APPRAISAL A't0
NECOTIATION. .o. .o ............ . o .....o .................o.  2
III.  PROJECT DIPlDffiNTATIONI...o............o............o........ c eec.. 4
A.  Credit Effect4veness.................................... ...  4
S.  Financing Problems and Project Revision .......0............  5
C.  Implementation of Estates and Factory Couponent ...........    7
D.  Implementation of Smallholder and Research Componento .....o 13
E.  Project Costs, Financing and Disburemnes................. 15
P.  ProcureZont ................. is1
G.  Adherence to Covenants. ...................... eec.. 15
Iv.   OPERATING AND INSTITUTIONAL       O          .................. 16
A.  Estates and Processing Componnt  ...........................    16
B.  Seallholder Coapon.nc............................. eec...... 19
C.  Coffee Research............ eec..00 .....0 ................. 20
D.  Bank Performane      .                                    ..... 21
V.    FINANCIaL PERFOE4AqCE ......... o. ......                           21
VI.   ECONmoIC  R-EVALUATrOWc.......cc.......      . ............         23
vil. Co ICLUi     S..          ....................                 e     24
AN= 1   : Draft PCR Prepared by ZCCL on Estates and Factory Component
AME  2 : Project Costs and Disbursemnts
AMIN  3 : Physical Impleamtation - Targets and Achievements
ANNE 4 : Financial and Economic Analyses
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performncem
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwis be disclod witout Wold Dank authoration|



(i)
ZAMBIA
COFMtC PRODUCTION PROJ1:T (CR. 863-ZA)
Project Completion Report
Preface
1.      This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Coffee
Production Project In Zambia, for which IDA approved on December 14, 1978
a Credit in the amount of US, 6 million. The Credit was declared
effective on July 26, 1979. It closed on May 31, 1986 after a
postponemnt of 20 months, with an undisbursed balance of approximately
USS 3,500 whlch was cancelled In May 1986. Due to underestimatlon of
project costs and the consequent shortage of funds, addltional financing
4as provlded by UNDP In the amount of US$1.1 million.
2.      The PCR was prepared by Eastern and Southern Africa Region,
Southern Agrlculture Division (Reglonal Offlce staff) and Is based on a
draft PCR prepared by the Zambla Coffee Company Ltd. on the project's
estates and factory component, a study of project related documents and
files, and a brlef field visit. The Borrower (CRZ) did not prepare a
completion report on the project's smallholder and coffee research
compomnets. Data on the implementatlon of theso components, although
Incomplete, was obtained from UNDP, Lint Company of Zambla and from Bank
files.
3.      The draft report was sent to the Borrower on January 29, 1988
for coments. However, no comments have been received.
4.      This project has not been  subjected to audit by OED.



(i1)
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT - CR. 863-ZA
Project Complation RePort
Basie Data Sheet
Actual
Appraisal                   as 2 et-
Key Prolect Data                       latigate        Actual      letimate
Total Project Cost (USIM)                  8.3           16.9        205
Credit Amount (USIM)                       6.0            6.0         100
Amount Disbursed (USSM)                    6.0            6.0         100
Amount Cancelled (UStM)                     -             -  1/         -
Dste Physical Couponents Completed        12/83           6/86
Proportion than Completed                  1001            752
Economic Rate of Return                    212         -7S/2/
Financlal Performance                                 unsatisfactory
Institutional Performance                                 marginal
Important Dates
Appraisal                                 03/78       03-04/78
Negotiations                              10/78       11/03/78
Board Approval                            12/78       12/14/78
Slgng of Credit Agrement                 01/79       01/26/79
Kffectiveness                          04/26/79       07/26/79
Closing                                09/30/84       05/31/86
Other Project Data
Borrower              : Government of Zambia (GRZ)
Executing Agencies   : RUCOM (later ZCCL); HAWD (later LINTCO)
Fiscal Year -  RZ    : January 1 - December 31
- RUCCM, ZCCL, LINTCO   April 1 - Harch 31
Nam  of Currency      : Kvacba (K)
Currency Exchange Rates
1978 (Appraisal)                        US* 1.00 - K 1.23
Intervening Years (1979 - 1985)         US$ 1. 00 - K 1.20 - 2.70
1986 (Completion)                       US$ 1. 00 a K 7. 10
Average for IDA Disbursoemnts           US$ 1.00 - K 1.28
Follow-on Project             : Second Coffee Project
Credit Number                 s 1743-ZA
Credit Amount                 : SO& 16.9*
Date of Board Approval        : 11/25/1986
1/  US$ 3,548.82 were cancelled on May 22, 1980.
Ti ERR is estimated at -72 if required improvement In management and in
operating performance, and needed additional lnvestmnts are not
carried out. With such improvements and investmant - vhich are
included in the Second Coffee Project - ERR is estimated at 22.



(iii)
Cumulative Disbursements
FY?9   FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84   FY85   FY86
Appraisal
Estimate (US.tE,  C.6    2.0    3.3      4.7      5.7     6.0      6.0   6.0
Actual (US$M)       -      1.1    2.3      2.9      3.6     5.1      5.7   6.0
Actual as X of
Estimate          -     56      70      64       63      85       95   100
Date of FLnal Disbursement                            May 22, 1986
Mission Data
Perfor-
Date    No of   Nandays   Specializatiqn   Report    mance
(Ho/Yr)  Persons  in Pield  Represanted_'    Date         RatiaL
Identification        7/77      3       33      a, b, c            08/03/77    -
Preparation           9/77      5       55      a, b, e, f, g    01/25/78    -
Pre-Appraisal         1/78      2       21       b, e              02/10/78    -
Appraisal           3-4/78      3       63       a, b, g           11/15/78    -
Supervision I       3-4/79      1      - 7       g                 05/0'/79    - 2/
Supervision II 3/    9/79       1        3      g                  10/03/79    -
Supervision m7y4/  10/79        1        3       h                 10/25/79    -
Supervision IV        1/80      2       18       a, g              02/27/80    2
Supervision V 4/      3/80      1        1      h                  04/08/80    -
Supervision VI        3/80      1        3      b                  04/10/80    -
Supervision VII       5/80      1        2       b                 07/08/80    -
Supervision VII;      8/80      2       22       b, g              10/30/80    3
Supervision XX '/    3/81       3       45       a, c, g           06/05/81    3
Supervision X 3/      6/81      1        4       I                 08/06/81    - 5/
Supervision XI        8/81      1        3       a                 09/08/81    3
Supervision XII       9/81      1        1      h                  09/23/81    - 5/
Supervision XIII      1/82      1       10       a                 03/19/82    3
Supervlsion XIV    8-9/82      2        24      c, a               09/23/82    3
Supervlsion XV      3-4/83     4        28      a, e, *, g         07/15/83    3
Supervlsion XVI      12/83      2       21      e, g               03/21/84    3
Supervision XVII      5/84      2       20       e, e              06/18/84    3
Supervlsion XVIII 7/ 9/84       1        5      *                  09/12/84    - 5/
Supervision XIr      11/84      2       22       e, a              12/24/84    3
Supervision XX        3/85      1        7      e                  04/29/85    3
Supervision XXI      11/85      3       23     e*  c, j            11/25/85    3
1/   a - ecowomist; b - agricultural economist; c - coffee specialist; e -
financlal analyst; f a clvil engineer; g - agriculturalist/agronomlst; h -
disbursement officer; i - loan officer; j a irrigation specialist.
2/   Not rated because project was not yet effective.
3/   Partial mission combined with  oission on other project(s).
4/   Mission concentrated on disbursement lssues only.
5/   Mission Issued only Back to Office report.
j/   Hid-Term Revlew.
7/ Misslon concentrated on providing assistance in flnalizing of documents
required by IDA to make necessary changes in the project's legal
agreements, following the take-over of project assets by ZCCL.



- iv -
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 863-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALtiATION SUMMARY
Introduc'.ion
The  project  was   the   Government's   first  major  coffee
development program and the first operation in which the Bank Group
supported Zambia's infant coffee industry.
Obiectives
The  project's  main  objectives   were  to  increase  coffee
production and assist in diversifying the economy away from the
dominating mining sector. The project also aimed at achieving a more
balanced distribution of incomes between rural and urban population.
These objectives were to be achieved by (i) developing a 400 ha
parastatal coffee estate and rehabilitating an existing 50 ha coffee
plantation, (ii) establishment of coffee processing facilities, (iii)
a pilot program for developing 600 smallholder coffee plantations, and
(iv) supporting and improving coffee research.
Implementation Experience
Implementation  of   the   project's   estates   and  factory
components was initially   the  responsibility  of RUCOM Industries, a
parastatal company with about 30 diversified and scattered operations
most of which were unviable.  RdCOM management could not give adequate
attention to the project, and did not meet operational requirements.
Among the shortcomings were inadequate forward planning, coordination
and monitoringg insufficient project support services especially in
procurement and accounting; and the absence of systematic accounting
and cost control. at the  estates.   Project management on the estates
performed reasonably well under prevailir.g difficult conditions. But
it failed to make important alterations in the irrigation system
design and in the land development plan, which would have greatly
contributed to higher  yields.    Management  generally improved after
project assets and responsibilities were transferred in 1984 from
RUCOM to a new parastatal organization, Zambia Coffee Company Ltd.
(ZCCL). However, progress was slow, and at project completion many
problems remained:  (a)    deficiencies  in the irrigation system were
yet to be corrected; (b) crop husbandry practices were sub-standard
and coffee yields disappointing; (c) coffee production management and
engineering staff was inadequate; and (d) cost controls needed further
improvements and costs were in excess of operational needs.



Results
The project's objectives have been reached to some extent.
The project has been successful in establishing a basis for a viable
coffee industry in  the  country:    experience  gained during project
implementation has provided valuable input into the design of a coffee
policy prepared by the Government in consultation with IDA. It has
also benefitted commercial and smallholder farmers who have taken up
coffee production in recent years. The project has furthermore helped
in developing a suitable  coffee  marketirg netw-rk and is effectively
introducing Zambian coffee on  the  international  market as a product
with desirable quality characteristics.
With regard to its narrower development obje-tives, the
project has been able to complete about 70% of the 450 ha es,tate to be
established/rehabilitated  under  its  main  component.    The  coffee
factory financed under the project has been commissioned and is
operational. The UNDP assisted smallholder coffee development program
has demonstrated that coffee can be grown successfully by small coffee
growers. It has however also shown that for smallholder coffee to be
viable supplementary irrigation is required; and coffee growers need
to  group  themselves  into   organizations  which  enable  economical
provisior. of services and efficient coffee processing and marketing.
The contibution made by the project's research component - financed by
UNDP - has been negligible.
The project failed to achieve its production objective and
its aim to establish a viable organization for operating the two
project estates and coffee  factory.    This  is  mainly the result of
delays in plantation development, operating problems including low
yields,   an   inadeauate   irrigation   system,   and  unsatisfactory
management.   Among  the  reasons  for  this disappointing performance
ranks  highly  a  grave   underestimation   of  project  costs  during
appraisal. This is turn led to a severe and continuous shortage of
funds hampering th. implementation of the project's invesuaent program
as well as operational  effectiveness.    At project completion it was
estimated that additional investments of about US$ 5 million in
machinery, equipment and management would be required to make the
estates and factory fully operational.
Sustainability
The problems experienced in project implementation have made
it increasingly clear that the choice of RUCOM Industries, and more
generally of a parastatal organization, for implementing a project of
this size and  complexity  has  been  inappropriate, especially as in-
country expertise and experience with coffee production and processing
were rudimentary.  It is  also unlikely that necessary improvements in
operational effectiveness and the cost consciovsness required to
ensure efficient operations can be achieved within the existing
structure of ZCCL. Rather, it would appear that increased efficiency
and effectiveness would be contingent on appropriate private sector
participation in the Company. At the present level of management and



- vi -
w-ithout new investments to upgrade ZCCL's operations, the project's
economic  rate  of  return   (ERR)   is   eatimated  to  be  negative.
Strengthening  of management   and   increased  operating  efficiency
together with private sector participation in ZCCL and improvements in
operations through required additional investments would significantly
increase ERR. However, due to the high amount of expenditures already
incurted and because of low coffee production in the past, ERR for the
entire estateslfactory component would still be only about two
percent,
Findinas
The lessons learned from the project have been incorporated
into  the  design  of  the   Second  Coffee  Project.    That  project
concentrates on future coffee development in the private sector
including large and small  farmers.    With regard to smallholders, it
furtnermore emphasizes the need for cost effective production limiting
public   sector   and   project   assistance   to   areas   which  are
agroclimatically most suitable with adequate irrigation potential,
and where farmer groups  can  be  snitably  organized. With regard to
ZCCL, the Second Coffee  Project  provides funds to upgrade management
and operations so that the Company can become viable. However, as the
efficiency and cost effectiveness required to ensure such viability
are not expected to be achieved within ZCCL's present ownership
structure, IDA financing provisions for this component are contingent
on the completion of satisfactory equity participation arrangements
which would require significant private sector involvement in the
institution.



ZAMBIA
COFFEE PROUDCTION PROJECT - CR.863-ZA
Project Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Since the mid-1970. the Goveroment of the Republic of Zambia
(GRZ) has been deeply concernet about the country's excessive dependence
on copper mining, and about the uneven distribution betwven rural and
urban incomen. With the decline In copper prices in 1975, Zambia entered
into a period of worsening economic crises which highlighted the need for
focussing development efforci on other sectors of the economy to provide
alternative sources of income and foreign exchange earnings. Zambia's
agriculture wlth its vast unexploited land and water resources was
recognized as the country's main potential for dlversifying the economy
away from mining in the short and medium term and, at the same time,
reducing income disparities between the rural and urban population.
1.02    Accordingly, in its Third National Development Plan, GR. gave
increased priority to rural development in general and Increased
agricultural production in particular. The aim of the Plan was to
achleve higher levels of and self-sufficiency in staple foods and to
exploit the export potential of certain crops. In this context coffee
was selected as a crop to receive Increased development assistance, and a
coffee development project was prepared to achieve self-sufficiency in
this commodity, provide the asis for later exports, and create
additional sources of Income for the rural population.
1.03    The project as negotiated c.nslsted of: (a) establlshment of an
estate with 400 ha of coffee and 400 ha of maize at Kateshi; (b)
rehabilitation of 50 ha of coffee plantings at Ngoll; (c) provision of
farm machinery, equipment, irrigation, vehicles, Inputs, houses and
office, workshop and storage facilities required for plantation
establishment/rshabilitation and for esta:e operations; (d) construction
of and equipping t coffee factory for processing the coffee from the two
plantations; (e) training of technical, management and marketing staff,
and (f) technical assistance in plantation management and engineering.
The project Included also funds for (a) a pilot scheme for smallholder
coffee growing; (b) support to coffee research; and (c) identification
and preparation of further projects in the coffee sub-sector. It was the
first IDA assisted project In this subsector and the slxth Bank financed
operation In agriculture in Zambla.
1.04    Rural Commercial Industries Ltd. (RUCOK), a parastatal
corporation established in 1961 and wholly owned by another parastatal,
Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (INDECO), was to be responsible
for implementing the main project components: establishment/
rehabilitation and operation of the two estates and the coffa- factory,
training of coffee pers'nnel, engagement of technical asslsti  ~e and



- 2 -
preparation of future coffee projects. The smallholder pilot scheme and
the project's coffee research component were to be imp;emented by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD) 1i
1.05    The project's legal documents were signed in January 1979 ar.- the
Credit was decla ed effective in July of the same year. In 1980 it
became apparent t at project costs would be considerably higher than
estimated at appralsal, and the consequent shortage of funds developed
into a major bottleneck in project lmplementation. Furthermore, the
project's orientation towards coffee production and processing for local
consumption appeared to be inappropriate. These issues were examined
during a mid-term IDA review mission in 1981, which resulted in:
(a) reorientation of the project towards coffee production for exports;
and (b) an understanding that the use of IDA Credit funds would be
restricted to cover foreign exchange requirements under the project's
coffee estate and factory component, while GRZ would arrange financing
for the suallholder pilot scheme and for coffee research. Such financing
was provided under a UNDP supported coffee project. But financial
problems continued to plague the project, and management constraints at
RUCOM impeded effective project implementation. As a result,
implementation responsibility was transferred in 1984 to Zambia Coffee
Company Ltd. (ZCCL), a firm established by INDECO under new management.
The Credit Closing Date was extended by one year to September 1985 and
after another informal extension, the Credit account was closed in May
1986. By that time about 410 ha of coffee had been planted or
rehabilitated - although considerable iufllling is still required in the
newly planted areas. The coffee factory waa commissioned in June 1986.
About 1,200 smallholder growers have taken up coffee production.
Progress in coffee research has been negligible.
1.06    This report has been prepared by Eastern and Southern Africa
Regional Office staff based on a draft project completion report on the
project's estates and factory component prepared by ZCCL (Annex I), a
desk study of files and a brief field visit. Information on the
project's smallholder and research components, although incomplete, has
been provided by UNDP and Lint Company of Zambia.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, APPRAISAL
AND NEGOTIATIONS
2.01    Identification of the project started iT October 1976.  Following
Government's request to the Bank in May 1977 for providing preparation
assistance, the project was prepared during the second half of 1977 by a
joint team of MAUD and the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern and
Southern Africa (UMESA). In January 1978, the team completed a draft
preparation report which was reviewed during the same month by an IDA
pre-appraisal mission. The project preparation report was finalized in
March 1978, and the project was appraised by IDA in March/April of the
same year.
/ The Ministry was earlier designated Ministry of Lands and
Agriculture.



-3-
2.02     During the early stages of project identification, it had been
the intention of the Government to promote coffee production by family
farms. This concept was de-emphasized when President Kaunda indicated in
early 1977 that initial agricultural development efforts in Zambia would
primarily focus on estate agriculture with outgrowers, involving
substantial Government ownership. The project was prepared accordingly,
concentrating on the Kateshi estate in (Northern Provirce) which was
being developed by RUCOM, and the nearby Ngoli estate which had been
developed by MAWD but required rehabilitation. The initial project
design envisaged the planting/rehabilitation of 400 ha of coffee under
central management, with the intention to sub-divide the estates into
smallholder plots upon completion of the development phase. The design
also included establishment of a coffee factory with about 1,000 tons
throughput capacity, land development for maize cultivation to produce
stover for mulch, and assistance for coffee research and further project
preparation.  Other designs considered but eventually rejected included:
(i) a project with more than about 400 ha of coffee plantings
was considered too large to be effectively managed and also
exceeding the domestic coffee requirements (exports was
considered to be premature especially as there was no
export marketing experience to build on); and
(ii) a project concentrating from the outset on smallholders was
considered too risky mainly because of farmers'
unfamiliarity with the crop.
On the other hand, it was felt that estate development without
smallholder participation was not compatible with Government policy.
Hence the proposal to sub-divide the estates into smallholder plots after
the trees reached maturity.
2.03     This proposal was abandoned during further project preparation,
when it was considered that estate coffee production would provide the
soundest basis for a viable coffee industry in Zambia. However, to lay
also the foundation for effective coffee development in the smallholder
sector, a component for smallholder coffee growers was added to the
project.  The size of this component became an issue during project
preparation and appraisal as views differed about the number of
mallholders to be supported by the project. It was finally decided to
limit this component to a pilot scheme involving about 600 farmers.
Other Issues which emerged during project preparation centered on
organlzatlon and management. The preparation team highlighted the need
for competent anI experienced management to ensure the commercial
viability of the coffee estates. In this context the team was concerned
about the rather discouraging results recorded by many parastatal
organizations. But as the estates were to be operated as a public sector
establishment, it was proposed to incorporate a new company with separate
management under a General Manager, and an ownership structure where no
shareholder would have the majority. A new company under experienced
management and with a dispersed ownership, it was believed, could
successfeily avoid a repetition of the problems experienced in other
parastatals. To further underpin the commercial nature of the project,
the team also suggested that private sector participation in the company
be encouraged.



- 4 -
2.04     Government did not favor the establishment of a separate company
and decided to entrust to RUCGM the prcject'l estate development program
at Kateshi and Ngoli as well as establishment of the project's coffee
factory. This important change from the proposed project concept was
introduced during appraisal, and was supported by the appraisal mission.
It was also agreed that the estate component would be increased by 50 ha
to a total of 450 ha of coffee to be developed or rehabilitated. The
project's soallholder and research components were to be carried out by
HAVD.
2.05     At appraisal, RUCOM operated more than 30 diversified commercial
units scattered throughout Zambia. Hany of these incurred regular losses
with the result that the overall financial performance of he firm was
unsatisfactory. This was pointed out by the appraisal m. lion, together
with the fact that RUCOK did not have sufficient skilled staff and middle
management personnel to handle its various operations. To overcome
RUCOM's financial and management problens, the project as apprasl.d
envisaged the preparation and implementation of a plan for the
improvement and restructuring of the Company's existing operations. The
project also required RUCGM to establish and maintain certain financial
ratios, and it included an equity infusion by Government into RUCOM of K
1.4 million. RUCOM's General Manager was to have the overall
responsibility for the project's estate coffee production and processing
component. He was to be assisted by a Plantation Manager with da,-to-day
responsibility for project implementation, and by an Engineering Manager
who was to plan and supervise procurement and maintenance of machinery,
vehicles and equipment, and construction and maintenance of buildings,
especially of the coffee factory. These two managers were to be
recruited internationally and be provided with local counterparts.
2.06     The project was negotiated in October/November 1978, and with
some minor modifications acce?ted by the negotiation teams as presented
by the appraisal mission. The project as negotiated had an estimated
total cost of US$ 8.3 million comprising US$ 6.8 million for estate and
factory development, and US$ 1.5 million for the project's smallholder
and research components. The latter were to be financed fully by IDA,
while the components to be implemented by RUCoM were to be funded as
follows: US$ 4.5 million by IDA, US$ 1.6 million by Government and USt
0.7 million from expected cash generation by the *states.
III. PROJECT IMPLEKENTATION
A.       Credit Effectiveness
3.01     The target date in the Development Credit Agreement for
fulfilling the conditions of effectiveness was specified as April 26,
1979, three months after the signing of the Agreement. However, an
extension by three months became necessary and the Agreement was declared
effective on July 26, 1979. The delay was mainly due to slow completion
of required legal opinions and execution of the subsidiary loan agreement
between Government and RUCOM.
3.02     The other effectiveness condition - appointment by RUCOM of the
project's Plantation Manager and Engineering Manager - had been met in



April. The Plantation Manager took up his assignment on May 1, 1979, the
Engineering Manager on July 1, 1979. Early action had also been required
on two additional matters:
(i)  transfer of the Ngoli estate to RUCo4, and
(li) Issuance of a water permit to RUCOM for at least
43,000a3 of water per day from the Lukupa river for a
minimum of 20 years. This vas required to ensure that
Kateshi estate would have adequate water for irrigation.
RUCOM furnished evidence that it had taken physical possession of Ngoli
estate, and that lt had been provided with a suitable water permit, which
was however valid for one year only. To enable timely start up of the
project, IDA considered this satisfactory provided that a permanent water
permit would be Issued by August 1979 and legal title to Ngoli
transferred by December 1979. It was however not until July 1980 and
October 1980 that necessary action on the title transfer and on the water
permit were completed.
B.       Financing Problems and Project Revision
3.03     With the engagement of the Plantation and Engineering Managers,
the project's main components got off to a good start, and in the initial
project period development and rehabilltation activities at the two
project coffee estates were ahead of schedule. But soon financing
problems emerged which developed Into major bottlenecks for effective
project Implementation and led to a major revision of the project.
3.04     The first financing problems were recorded already two months
after Credit effectiveness when the project was left virtually without
funds. Salaries could no longer be paid in time, and supplies of fuel,
Inputs and materials became critical. Some of the initial liquidity
problems - such as unfamiliarity of RUCOM staff with IDA procedures for
withdrawing funds from the IDA Credit - were soon resolved. But shortly
thereafter, as early as January 1980, it became apparent that the project
was conslderably underfunded. An analysis carried out by RUCOM in mid
1980 estimated that the costs for the project's estates and factory
component vould be almost twice as high as indicated In the appraisal
report. An IDA supervision mission In August 1980 confirmed this. The
mission noted that appraisal cost estimates were too low for almost all
expenditure categories, and for some items, as for example coffee
processing machinery, had to be increased by more than three times. The
hlgher costs were reported to be due to an underestimation at appraisal
of both Inflation rates and base costs. Regarding the latter, appraisal
estimates appeared to be particularly low for labor requirements,
machinery and building costs, and management and administration
expenditures. The funding shortfall was estimated to exceed US$ 5
million.
3.05     To develop a suitable strategy for resolving this problem an IDA
Mid-Term Review Mission visited Zambia in March 1981. This mission
examined a number of planning options including several possibilities for
reducing the plantation development component. It f'nally concluded,
mainly on the basis of expected rates of returns for the different



-6-
options, that the best course of action would be to go ahead with
developing/rehabilitating the 450 ha coffee area and using the combined
gravlty and pump irrigation system as proposed in the appraisal report.
The slasion Introduced only one major conceptual change: coffee produced
from project *states was to be mainly exported (802) rather than to be
consumed locally. The main reasons given for this were as follows:
(i) the mission doubted that the domestic market could absorb
the project's entire incremental production of about 800
tons as had been stated in the appraisal report. (Later
reviews of the domestic coffee market indicated that these
doubts were justified.);
(ii) there were some inherent contradiction in the appraisal
report:
-    such of the coffee processing equipment listed in the
report - such as electronic, bichromatic and
ultra-violet sorting equipment would not be necessary
for the relatively unsophisticated domestic market;
-    the coffee to be grown under the project was of the
arablca type, while most of the Imports were instant
coffee manufactured from lower quality robusta coffee;
and
(1ii)     the economic value of the project's arabica coffee
output was higher if the coffee was exported than if
It was used for substituting lover quality imports of
robusta.
3.06     With this modification and its effect on processing plant deslgn
(pare 3.17), the Mid-Term Mis. ton revised project costs for estate
development and the processing plant. The revised total costs were
estimated at US$17.1 million compared to appraisal estimates of USg 6.8
mIllion (Annex 2, Table 1). The largest single cost increase was in the
establishmuent of coffee processing facilities, which were now estimated
to cost US$ 4.8 illlon against the appraisal estimate of US$ 1.2 million.
3.07     For flnancing the expected cost increase, the mission projected
that Internal cash generation from the estate operations would Increase
from appraisal estimates by US* 2.5 milllon over the project period. It
os also assumed that Gover-n nt and parastatals would contribute an
additional U8* 2.8 million to the project, leaving a financing gap of
about US$ 5.0 million. To fill this gap, it was recomended, that IDA
consider financing the shortfall. Alternatively, Government should seek
bilateral assistance for financing the cost of the processing facilities
(US$ 4.8 illion), and IDA should re-allocate some of the funds earmarked
for scallholder coffee development and research to the estate component.
3.08     GRZ and RUCGK approached several potential financing apurces
including Kreditanstalt fuer Uiederaufbau, Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), and French and Kuwait bilateral aid, to secure funding
for the processing facilities. But for various reasons, such as delays
In decision making and unattractive financing terms and conditions,



-7-
agreement courd not be reached with any of these sources to assist in
financing the cost overruns. A solution to the funding problem seemed
finally to emerge in late 1982/early 1983 when it became apparent that
the foreign exchange requirements for the factory were lover than
estimated during the Mid-Term Review, and when It was agreed that (a)
undisbursed funds from the IDA Credit would be re-allocated and used
exclusively for meeting direct foreign exchange requirements of the
project; (b) Zambia Industrial Mining Corporation (ZIKCO), the parent
company of INDECO, would make available KS million (equivalent to about
USSS million) to finance all remaining local costs for estate development
and for the factory, and (c) Government would refrain from claiming
eligible expenditures already incurred under the project's smallholder
and research components, and finance all future expenditures for these
components from its own or other resources. While this development
helped to relieve the finaneing constraints, other factors including high
Inflation, the devaluation of the Kvacha, delays and problems in estate
development, and lower than expected coffee production (para 4.06)
mitigated against a full resolution of the financing issue. In 1984
ZDICO and INDECO undertook to make additional equity funds available (up
to a total of somewhat more than K 10 million), and to assist in securing
loan funds from Zambian credit institutions. As a result of these
measures, liquidity improved somewhat in 1985, and availability of inputs
for the estates was adequate for the first time. But due to ZIMCO's and
INDECO's own funding constraints coupled with the estates' inability to
generate the expected revenues financing continued to be a problem
throughout the project period. In addition, it became apparent during
1985 that considerable further Lnvestments In such iteos as agricultural
machinery and equipment, irrigation, factory electrification and in
management would be requlred to make the project estates and factory
fully operational. These Investment and funding needs are being
addressed in the Second Coffee Project for which IDA approved a Credit in
November 1986, and which includes a component for improving and
completing the first project's estates and factory components. Total
additional funding requirements, are estimated at US*5.O million. About
USt2 million of this are expected to be provided in the form of loans
from IDA. US02.2 million in equity funds are being identified. Only US$
0.8 million are projected to be financed from cash generated by the
estates and factory.
C.       Implementation of Estates and Factory Component
3.08     General.  The project's estates and factory component comprised
the rehabilitation of 50 ha of coffee a Ngoli and establishment of 400 ha
each of coffee *n maize at Kateshi and the provision of facilities for
processing about 800 tons of coffee annually. It also included the
development of irrigation facilities, procurement of vehicles and
agricultural machinery and implements, and buildings for staff and
offices. Furthermore provision was made for technical assistance and
training.
3.10     Estate Development.  In the initial project period progress in
establishing/rehabilitating the two estates was good although
difficulties had been encountered. In addition to the funding problems
discussed above, shortages of machinery, equlpment, inputs, vehicles,



-8-
workshops facilLties and tools, largely due to inadequate forward
planning and slow procurement by RUCOM management Lapeded the timely
development of the estates. Equipment had frequently to be substituted
by labor wlth the result of substantial increases in labor cost and poor
quality construction of the main lnlet canal at R'teshi.  Problems arose
also in the areas of land clearing and preparation whlch Vax to be
carried out by the Land Clearing Unlt (LCU) of HAND. The Unit, which was
not under the direct control of the Plantation Manager, often used poorly
maintained equipment, left the land ln a rough state and could not be
relied upon for provLding servlces in time. A consultant engaged by
RUCOK towards the end of 1983 judged the standard of land preparation as
poor. In some of the cleared area a further complication was added by
the unexpected high lncidence of anthills. These were levelled at high
costs and created difficulties for the survlval of seedlings (because of
the poor soil characteristics of the anthill material), and for the flow
of Irrigatlon water. These factors together with: problems ln the
Irrigation systoe (para 3.13), the use - until 1985 - of bare-root
seedlings, and lnsufficient mulching of coffee trees (parts 4.05 and
4.06), caused hlgh seedling mortality rates whlch in some areas exceeded
602. The result has been continuous need for ulfllling the gaps ln the
establinhed coffee area and retardation in the planting program for new
areas. At project completLon, the recorded coffee areas at Ngoli and
Kateshi totaled 407 ha. However, if existing gaps in the various coffee
blocks are taken Lnto conslderation, the adjusted coffee area determined
on the basis of a tree account is only about 308 ha, or somewhat less
than 702 of the appraisal target.
3.11     A comparison of the appraisal targets with the actual coffee and
maize areas planted or rehabilitated, before accounting for gaps
requirLng infilling in the plantations, is presented below:
Planted/Rehabilltated Coffee Area    Area Annually Planted to XaLze
Year      Appraisal Target      Actual         Appraisal Target       Actual
1979/80         64               134                  90                173
1980/81        104               249                 210                292
1981/82        204                307                310                345
1982/83        304               349                 450                400
1983/84        404                369                450                242
1984/85        450               407                 450                587 1/
1985/86        450               407 2/              450                600 T/
1/ Includes 50 ha planted to soya in 1984/85 and 100 ha in 1985/86.
I/ Adjusted for gaps to be inflIled, the actual area
planted/rehabilitated In early 1986 has boen estlmated at only 308 ha.
3.12      Although maize plantings exceeded appraisal targets in most
years, the main purpose for growing the maize which was to provide mulch
for the coffee trees was not achieved. Rather, due to operational
problems and insuffLelent tractors and equlpment the maize stover was
usually burnt after harvest. Production of maize for grains has
generally been unprofitable.



3.13      Irrlgation.  Successful establishment/rehabilitation of project
plantations and reaching the coffee yields projected were critically
dependent on the adequate availability and timely applicatlon of
irrigation vater. Surface Irrigation was selected as the most suitable
system for the two project estates. At Ngoli such a system already
existed. For the Kateshi estate a main canal and secondary distribution
channels vere to be constructed under the project. Since Irrigation
water needed to be pumped to reach part of the coffee area, the project
provided also for three pumps, piping and a night storage reservoir.
3.14      The establishment as vell as the maintenance and operation of
the surface irrigation systems especially at Kateshi have generally not
been satisfactory. A major problem with the system has been its design.
All furrovs have been laid out down the slope which in many instances
exceeds 32. In part of the coffee area this has led to (i) severe soil
erosion with coffee trees having been washed out, (il) quick run-off of
lrrlgatlon water and rainfall, with little penetration into the soil, and
(111) high vater losses. In addition, poor construction and maintenance
of the water diverslon structures, the main canals and the reservoirs
have caused considerable water leakage with the result that many coffee
blocks receive inadequate and some almost no irrigation. Furthermore,
at the time of project completion, the existing pumping installations
were operating much below capacity and required a complete overhaul.
3.15      These problems combined with difficulties to establish
effective furrow irrigation lu Inadequately levelled areas with high
anthlll denaslty (par, 3.10) have made it necessary to prepare a complete
re-assesasnt of the existing furrow Irrigation system in the various
coffee blocks and determine the cost effectiveness of (t) Improving the
present systes, and (11) introducing alternative distribution systems
such as sprinklers or drip irrigation in part or all of the area under
coffee. Such re-assessment has started and a draft proposal for an
improved system has been prepared with finance from the Commonwealth Fund
for Technical Co-operation.
3.16      Machinery, Equipment, Buildings.  At the time of completion the
project had provided 17 tractors, 14 trailers, two lorries and one
comblne harveater together with various agricultural implements and
tools. It had also financed 24 vehicles Including 12 motorcycles for
personel transport, about 60 staff houses, an office, an input store, a
workshop and other required farm bulldings. The project had furthermore
provided for the improvement of existing infrastructure and the
construction of about 60 km of roads and tracks (Details are in Annex
3). As outlined above, the project provisions for agricultural aachinery
and equipment, vehieles, workshop tools, offlce machinery and for housing
have however not been adequate to ensure effective and efficient estate
c irstions. Also, many of the vehicles and much of the agricultural
eachinery and equipment procured have already been consumed or are
reaching the end of thelr useful life. In addition, some of the existing
implements are unsuited to the tractors available. It will therefore be
necessary to supplement the financing provislons made in the project.
The additional investment needs have been examined during the appraisal
of the Second Coffee Project, and funds for financing these needs have
been allocated in that project.



- 10 -
3.17      Coffee Factory.  For the coffee factory RUCOM invited bids ln
October 1980. Flve bids were received but the Mid-Term Review Mission
(para 3.05) concluded that the machinery and facilities proposed by the
responsive tenderers would not be capable of producing quality coffee
suitable for the export market. It was therefore decided to draw-up
revised tender documents, a responsibility which was taken over by INDECO
on behalf of RUCOM. INDECO engaged Zambia Engineering Services (ZES) for
this purpose. But as ZES had no prior experience in designing coffee
factories, the Initial technical proposals were found to be inadequate
for meeting the requirements of high quality coffee production. INDECO
therefore employed a coffee processing consultant to provide assistance
in preparing the necessary technical revislons in the bidding documents.
International tenders were invited for the supply and installation of the
coffee machinery, and the contract was awarded to a French firm in July
1983. The contract for civil works construction was awarded to Zambia
Engineering and Contracting Company (ZECCO), a subsidiary of INDECO.
Factory commissioning was expected by October 1984.
3.18      Machinery and equipment for the factory were supplied in a
timely manner, but civil works constructions experienced major delays
which added to the cost. The delays were due mainly to materials
shortages, slowness in materials procurement, insufficient monitoring,
and low priority given at times by ZECCO to expeditious factory
completion. Also, due to Inadequate-supervision, construction quality
was sub-standard In several areas. INDECO took corrective actions in
mld-1985 through the establishment of a high-level Project Monitoring
Co=mlttee and the engagement of an engineering consultants firm to
supervise civil works constructlon. The factory was finally commissioned
In June 1986 and has been taken Into operation. A number of problems
noted during and after couuissioning need however yet to be rectified and
some equipment replaced. NDECO has taken up these matters with the
equipment supplier and ZECCOA/ Initlal operation of the mechanical
drying facilities has not yet given the desired results, and some
modifications may be required to Improve the flow of coffee. Perimeter
fencing and a weighbridge are yet to be provided. Also, a permanent
solution for factory electrification is yet to be found, as the existing
power supply through stand-by generators Is adequate only for the
short-term. These latter needs are being addressed In the Second Coffee
Project.
3.19      To date, almost US*4 million have been Invested in constructing
and equipping the processing plant. There Is no uniform opinion whether
the investment of such a sun has been justified or whether a simpler,
less costly design would have been more appropriate. The factory has
been deslgned wlth the aim to produce arablc- coffee of a quality capable
of earning high premiums in overseas markets. While the plant will meet
high processing standards once the necessary rectifications and
replacements have been completed (para 3.18), It remains to be seen
whether premiums will actually be earned which will prove that the
1/ It has recently been reported that one water reservoir is used to
hold both the factory water supply and the recirculatior water.
If correct, this would be a serious design error which needs to be
rectified.



- ll -
decision In favor of a high technology factory has been correct. In the
1984/85 coffee 7ear, when the coffee from the two project estates vas
processed on existing equlpment and sorted by hand, prices earned were in
line with average prices paid for Kenyan coffee.
3.20      Tachalcal Assistance and Trainig.  Technical assistance
eogaged under the project covered the areas of plantation management, and
englneering, design and establishment of coffee processing facilities,
coffee sarketing, financial managesent and control, and project
evaluation. The performance of consultants has been mostly satisfactory
especially when considering the shortage of funds, machinery, equipment
and supplies experienced in the project implementation. On the other
hand, the unsatisfactory lay-out of the irrigation system (para 3.14),
hilgh seedlings mortality rates, and poor crop husbandry practices (para
4.06) would indlcate that there was room for lmprovement in plantatlon
managemeqt. Also, witb regard to the factory design a wlder range of
options should probably have been more actively considered by the
processlng consultant.
3.21      Project consultants provided on-the-job training especially in
the areas of field operations and marketing. The project financed also
study tours to review coffee production and processing operations in
Kenya. It furthermore provided overseas training courses in mechanical
and electrical engineering and in coffee marketing and liquoring. The
tralilng has been generally successful In the transfer of know-how, but
several staff trained heve left the project, and the overall training
objective of enabllng notional staff to take over all key functions in
estate coffee production and processing has not been
achleved. Further technical assistance and training are required for
some more time. Provision for this has been made In the Second Coffee
Project.
3.22      Studies.  The project had included funds for RUCOI  to identify
additional areas suitable for estate coffee production, and to prepare
future projects. n view of the funding problems mentioned above,
financing for this was not made available under the project. Also, the
problems experienced in project management made it desirable to transfer
the project preparation task to another agency. The National Coinission
for Development Planning (NCWP) took therefore over this responsibility,
and financing was made available under the IDA assisted Technical
Assietance Project (Credit 873-ZA). This enabled the preparatlon of the
Sectd Coffee Project. Preparation was carrled out with the assistance
of 3638k staff, project consultants and additlonal consultants flnanced
under Credit 873-ZA, and was completed In early 1986.



- 12 -
D.        Implementation of Smallholder and Research Components
3.23      Siallholder Component.  This pilot comoonent which concentrated
on four districts in Northern Province, had the objective to establish
coffee plantings on about 600 smallholder farms. Subject to preparation
of a suitable plan, the project also envisaged assistance to smallholder
coffee development In North-Western Province. The project provided funds
for (a) the strengthening of MAWD staff - including the engagement of two
Coffee Development Officers (DCOs); (b) procurement of transport; (c) the
supply of inputs and knapsack sprayers to coffee farmers; (d) housing
construction and study tours for the two DC0s; and (d) identification and
preparation of future smallholder coffee development projects.
3.24      The component started well with the engagement of a capable
DCO, and the recruitment of more than 250 smallholder coffee growers in
the project area by early 1981.  However, in view of the project's
funding problems, It was decided to discontinue IDA financing for this
component and use all Credit funds for the project estate and factory
development program. As a result, Credit disbursement for smallholder
coffee development, for which US$800,000 had been allocated, was only
about US$15,000. These funds were used mainly to finance small equipment
and operating expenditures of the CDOs during the early period of project
implementation.
3.25      Support for smallholder coffee development was however provided
under a UNDP/FAO assisted coffee project. That project was originally
designed to supplement the IDA financed development program, but in fact
the two projects overlapped with the result of some Initial confusion.
IDA was also concerned about the larger project area covered by the
UNDP/FAO supported program which went beyond the pilot approach for
smallhol46r coffee development favored under the Coffee Production
Project. The UNDP/FAO assisted project, signed in December 1979 and
amended in June 1980, provided US$415,000 to finance over a period of
about 2.5 years, consultants services, equipaent and supplies for
smallholder coffee development, and coffee research. The projecc's
smallholder component had the objective to (a) develop 90 ha of
smallholder coffee involving some 600 farmers In seven districts of
Northern Provlnce and in some parts of North-Western Province (b) provide
extension services to coffee growers, (c) establish coffee processing
facilities for small coffee farmers, and (d) identify future smallholder
coffee projects. The project which was to be Implemented under the
responsibility of MAWD, was extended in November 1981 by four years to
the end of 1985, and the UNDP contribution increased to about US$1.3
milllon. It was again mended in 1984 when KAWD transferred
responsibility for smollholder coffee development to Lint Company of
Zambia (LINTCO), a parastatal owned by MAND. At the same time coffee
development efforts were expanded to cover four Provinces: Northern,
North-Western, Luapula and Copperbelt.
3.26      The UNDP/FAO supported project was completed In December 1985,
when about US$l.1 million had been disbursed. Under its smallholder
component it provided the services of a coffee agronomist and of a coffee
extension specialist, consultancy services in coffee processing, and
vehicles, equipment and training. It also financed the establishment and
part of the operating costs of LINTCO's Coffee Development and Marketing
Divislon comprising 16 headquarters and 39 field staff, and 72 workers at



- 13 -
coffee nurseries. LINTCO provides coffee extension services and, under a
credit schem, supplies small coffee growers with seedlings, inputs, and
knapsack sprayers. In additlon, LINTCO is training farmers and makes
avallable primary processing equipment for small growers. The Company
furthermore offers coffee marketing services to smallholders.  By
mid-1985 _allholder coffee grovers serviced by LINTCO were about 1,200
with a coffee area of more than 320 ha. Details by Province are below:
Province                 Numboi,r of Farmers          Coffee Rectarage
Northern                         781                         253
North-Western                    351                          49
Luapula                           45                          10
Copperbelt                         8                          15
Total                          1,18S                         327
3.27    Coffee Research.  The project's research component was to support
ongolng coffee research work and to Initiate dryland coffee research
programs.  In this context the project provided funds for (a) the
employment of an Internationally recruited research agronomist and of
local staff; (b) the purchase of transport, inputs, machinery and
equipment; (c) the constructlon of a small coffee pulpery and
installation of irrigation facilities; and (d) training and study tours.
3.28    Similar to the project component for smallholder coffee
development, Credit support for this component was deleted from the
project and the entire US$600,000 Credit funds initially provided
for coffee research was reallocated to financed the project's coffee
estate and factory development program. The UNDP/FAO assisted coffee
project described above provided some support to MAND's coffee research
efforts through part-time technical assistance by the earlier mentioned
FAO coffee agronomist and through the procurement of some equipment.
But, as HAND was subject to severe financial constraints, and thus unable
to make available sufficient counterpart funds, the project was able to
continua only part of the ongoing research, and the Misamfu Research
Statlon's seed supply program. It introduced some new trials on tree
spaclng and lining, and supported testing of new coffee cultivars.
However, overall there has been no measurable progress in coffee research
in Zaabla In recent years.
I.      Prolect Costs, Financing and Disbursements
3.29    Project Costs.  Total project costs were estimated at US$8.3m.
This estimte proved to be unrealistically low, especially with regard to
the project'Q estate development and processing component. By the time
of Credit closing, actual costs incurred under this component were almost
0S$ 14.5 million compared to an appraisal estimate of about US$ 6.8
million. Actual costs would have been even higher had the entire
proposed coffee area been developed and all aachinery and equipment
requlred for effective estate operation been procured (see para 3.16).
Cost overruns were especlally high for estate development costs
(includlng inputs, wages and machinery/equipment operations) and for the
coffee factory, exceeding appraisal estimates by more than 2502 Civil
works costs for housing and office buildings were also considerably
higher than projected at appraisal (see also para 3.32). A comparison of
estlmated and actual costs, summarized below, is given in Annex 2, Table
2.



- 14 -
Project Costs (US" 000)
Actual      SAR          Actual as
Component                           Costs      Estimate    2 of Estimate
Eatate Coffee Production
and Processing                   14,578       6,726          217
Sallholder Development              1,746         964          181
Coffoe  areearch                      601         582           103
Total         16,925       8,272           205
Coats of the saallholder development and the resoarch components were
funded *ainly under above mntioned UNDP/FAO assisted project (para
3.25). Coats for these components were hlgher than the SAR estlate in
part because the UDP/FAh  supported project included a larger  mallholder
project area and more technical assistance input than was envlsaged under
the Coffee Production Project.
41.     Financing.  Considerable difficultles were experienced in
financing the cost over-runs.  While GRZ, ZDMCO and INDECO made
substantial efforts to aleviate tbh funding problem, their ability to
ralas necessary funds was li  ted, and the project suffered constantly
from a shortage of funds (pares 3.04-3.08). To ensure the viabillty of
the project'  estate and factory component and to enable the
astablisment of an efflcient smdlholder sector and of effective coffee
research, more flnancing Is still required. These financing needs are
beiog covered under the Second Coffee Project. At the tlue of project
completlon, financing of project costs as compared to the SAR financing
plan was as follows:
Project Financing (US$ =)
Actual            SAR Plan
1.    Coffee Estates & Processing
G=Z/INDECO/ZD3CO1/                            8.0                 1.6
Self Genaratad Funds                          0.6                 0.7
IDA                                           6.0                 4.5
Sub-total                           14.6                 6.8
2.    Socllholder an*  Research Co_ponents
utll                                          1.1                 -
GRZ                                           1.2                 -
IDA                                                               1.5
Sub-total                            271
3.    Total                                        16.9                 8.3
1/      Includes funds advanced by INDEC0 for which instltutional credit
financing is expected to be obtaLned.



- 15 -
3.31    Disbursements.  Disbursements averaged between 60% and 70% of
appraisal estimates for moat of the project period. Disbursements were
slower than expected due to slov procuroment and delays ln project
implementation resulting from uncertainties about project funding. In
early 1981 it vas decided that Credit disbursements would be limited to
foreign exchange expenditures under the project's estates and processing
component. The Credlt was closed in May 1986 when the entire Credit
acouot of US$6 million but US$3,500 had been disbursed. Details on
disbursements are in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4.
F.      Procurement
3.32    Procurement of goods and services has been in accordance with
Bank Grnup procurement guidelines. Procurement under ICB procedures
Included one contract in excess of US$1 mIllion for the supply and
Installation of machinery for the coffee factory. Problems were
encountered with regard to the procurement of staff houses and office
buildings when a local contractor failed to complete the work in time,
and construction quallty did not meet appropriate standards. This
required retendering for most of the houses and administration buildings,
as well as the engagement of a new contractor to repair and complete the
13 houses already started by the first construction firm. Civil works
for the coffee factory were financed locally and procured by INDECO
without IDA review of the decision of-contract award. Construction was
plagued by considerable delays due to shortage of materials and
inadequate monitoring. Also, poor workmanship has required substantial
repairs.
3.33    Procurement eervices by RUCOM headquarters were not fully
satisfactory with the result that especially inputs, materials and spare
parts were often delivered late or in Insufficient quantities. The
situation Improved with thc engagement of a procurement officer, who
received some training in uld-1984.  For foreign procurement, RUCOM
engaged In late 1982 an international procurement agency which resulted
in more timely Importation of vehicles, machinery and equipment.
G.      Adherence to Covenants
3.34    Compliance with co q  nants In the Development Credit Agreement
nd the Project Agreementl  has been mostly satisfactory, although
several of the dated covenant were met late. Exceptions were some of the
provisions In the Project Agreement targeted at Improvements in RUCOM' s
financial and operating performance. Sectlon 4.03 required RUC(M to
prepare and implement a plan satisfactory to IDA for the restructuring of
Its operations. A sattafactory proposal was not prepared, but over time
RUCOM nevertheless liquidated most of lts unprofitable operations in an
effort to stop the financlal 4rain they were causing. Section 4.05 (a)
specified that RUCOM (and later ZCCL) should ensure that current assets
exceed always current llabllitles. This requirement has not always been
met, in part because of the overall funding problems experienced by the
project. RUco/ZCCL complied only partly with the need, detailed in
Section 3.01, to keep engaged at all times adequate and competent
management and support staff, and to carry ou: Its operations in
accordance with appropriate agricultural and management practices.
1/   The Project Agreement with RUCOM Industries was amended in 1985
after ZCCL had taken over from RUCo( project assets and the
responsibllity for project completion.



- 16 -
Management left considerable room for improvement; there have been
shortages of procurement, financial and engineering personnel; and
*gricultural and management practices required up-grading. Under RUCoM
and especially after the establishment of ZCCL, efforts have been made to
address management and operational problems and meet staffing
requirements. But these efforts have been only partly successful, end
under the direction of INDECO, ZCCL has now engaged Tate and Lyle
Technical Services to assist the General Manager in managing coffee
estate and factory operations.
3.35    Due to the shortage of project funds it was agreed in 1981 that
Government would not submit disbursement claims for the project's
smallholder and research components. IDA did therefore not insist on
separate accounts for these components, nor on the detailed work program
for the smallholder component which was required under Section 3.07 of
the Development Credit Agreement.
IV. OPERATING AND INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A.      Estates and Processing Component
4.01    The project's estate and processing component implemented by
RUCOK and later by ZCCL has been successful in contributing to the
establiihment.of Zambia as a producer of quality coffee, and in gaining
valuable experience in the production, processing and export marketing of
coffee. It hap thereby helped the country to make substantial progress
in the formation of a new industry. Rowever with regard to the narrower
objective of achieving physical targets for estate development and coffee
production, performance has generally not been satisfactory. The
plantations have yet to reach the standard of a well managed coffee
estate; plantation establishment is yet to be completed; and coffee
yields are still below their potential. While this is in part due to
exogenous factors including the general deterioration of economic
environment in Zamb_a during the project period, some of the elements
which caused unsatisfactory performance were under the control of the
lmplenting agencies.
4.02    During the initial project years, operating performance was
haupered by the shortage of funds and the need by RUCCH management to
cope with the problems of more than 30 diversified antd scattered
co=ercial operations, many of which were unviable and constituted a
permaent drain on RUCoM resources.  Partly as a result of this, RUCOM
management in Lusaka did not give adequate attention to the plantation;
and forward planning, coordination and aonitoring by RUCOI top mana;ement
have often been lacklig. These problems were aggravated by inadequate
support services especially in procurement and accounting. The lack of
qualified procurement and accounting staff were among the main reasons
for late and Inadequate supplies of inputs, spare parts and materials,
and for the absence of systematic accounting and cost control at the
estates.
4.03    The situation improved somewhat with the engagement of a chief
accountant and a procurement officer.   But continued weakness in RUCOM
headquarters management, poor communication and coordintion, and RUCOM's



- 17 -
unstable finances made it lncreasingly necessary to extricate the project
from RUCOK's operations. GRZ, ZIMCO and INDLCO decided therefore to
transfer project assets and responsibility for project completion to
Zambla Coffee Company Ltd. (ZCCL) which was established in early 1984
under new management.
4.04    Under its new General Manager and with the assistance of a
Planeial Controller engaged in 1985 ZCCL has taken several steps to
improve operations: the General Manager has assumed direct responsibility
for day-t-day operations spending most of his time on the estates; In
1985 all required inputs were applied for the first time; detailed
budgets are now being prepared for al: operating departments; and a
management accounting system has been introduced. ZCCL has also played a
pivotal role in Zambia's admission to the International Coffee
Organization, and has successfully opened up a number of channels for the
export marketing of Zambia's coffee,j/However, progress in addressing the
Company'r t'ny problems has been slow. By aid-1986 (a) most of the
defic1ivnc.Y in the irrigation system, Its maintenance and operation had
yet to 7:.e 0 'ected; (b) crop husbandry practices did not meet acceptable
standardt (;  coffee yields continued to be disappointing; (d) maize
production, introduced in the project to produce stover for mulching the
coffee trees, had become a major objectives in itself drawing scarce
resources from the coffee operations, while the maize stover was usually
being burnt; (e) coffee production management and engineering staff was
inadequate; (f) field operating manuals and standards were incomplete;
(g) cost controls and the management information system needed further
improvements; and (h) costs were In excess of operational needs.
4.05    On the estates, lnitlal performance under the expatriate
Plantation Manager seemed encouraging: In spite of considerable
difficulties, plantation establishment and rehabilitation were ahead of
schedule. But by 1983 and even more so in 1984 it became apparent that
targets for plantation establishment and production would not be
achieved. This was mainly due to the shortage of funds, materials and
equipment and other constraints such as the the poor performance of
MAMD's Land Clearing Unit, over which plantation management had little or
no control. On the other hand, with regard to crop husbandry practices
and lrrigatlon development, estate management could have performed
better. Management could have recognized earlier the problems in the
Irrigation system design (para 3.13) and made use of a system such as
contour furrows which would have been more appropriate for the topography
of the area. Land clearing was another area where improvements could
have been achieved: (i) soils were apparencly not adequately examined;
and (1i) management did not make appropriate alterations in the initial
land development plan when It encountered In some areas major problems
such as anthill densities in excess of 2002 of appraisal estimates. Due
to poor levelling of many anthills, buckets have now to be used In some
coffee blocks for irrlgation. These problems together with inappropriate
nursery management, including the use of bare-root Instead of potted
seedlings in often poor soils, have been mainly responsible for the high
mortality rate of coffee seedlings. In several coffee blocks planting
vent ahead although sufficient irrigation water could not be assured.
4.06    Crop husbandry practices have been sub-si.andard: coffee trees
have often been poorly pruned with the result of overbearing dieback,
1/ Success was due largely to a competent and knowledgeable marketing
consultant, who also provided appropriate training to Zambian statf
in marketing.



- 18 -
difficulties in disease and pest management, and the reduction of yields;
mulching has been completely inadequate leading to water stress, wilting
and dieback; and erosion control measures have not been taken in a
meaningful way, The above problems combined with insufficient
irrigation, inadequate fertilizer applicAtion and pest/disease control,
and a shortage of machinery, equipment and spares, resulted in
under-achievement in plantation establishment (para 3.11' and low coffee
production. Compared with appraised and Mid-Term Review estimates, the
amount of coffee produced by the estates has been as follows:
-     Production (tons)               Actual as
Year               SAR Estimate     Hid-Term      Actual       2 of SAR
______________    ,________                 Estimate
1980/81                40               70          10            25
1981/82               115              157          56            49
1982/83               226              242          83            37
1983/84               398             400          138            35
1984/85               630              645          97            15
1985/86               821             936          200            24
1986/87               851           1,026          254  /         30
1/ Up to September 30, 1986
The poor production results are due to the delay in plantatlon
establishment and lower than expected yields. While accurate data on
coffee yields are not available and because of dlstortions due to the
different infilling needs in the various coffee blocks, a coffee
consultant employed in late 1985 estimated that with the existing
Irrigation system and at prevailing management levels, average yields of
mature coffee were only about 750 kg per hectare. le projected that
average yields could be brought up to 1,750 kg/ha if investments were
made in an improved irrigation system, tractors and other required
equipment, while at the same time management and cultural practices were
brought up to appropriate standards.
4.07   The coffee management expertise, idditional equity funds and the
cost consciousness needed to ensure the Company's viability, would be
provided most suitably through private sector participation in ZCCL.
SAch participation vol..lA elqo hb ainaeted to assist In the removal of
existing constraints on effectlve personnel management and on management
of the Company in general. A strategy Involving private sector
participation In ZCCL is being supported under the Second Coffee Project,
which provides funds for required additional Investments In Irrigation,
machinery, equipment, management and training. To avoid further delays
In addresslng urgent operatioL4l and management problems INDECO/ZCCL, in
consultation with IDA, have entered In 2id-l986 Into an agreement with
Tate and Lyle Technical Services under which management and irrigation
expertise are being provided. Also, with the asslstance of Commonwealth
Fund for Technical Cooperation a corporate plan has recently been
prepared to establish the basis of suitable organization, management and
equity particlpation arrangements. This plan is now being reviewed by
the various concerned institutions.



- 19 -
B.     Smallholder Component
4.06   Smallholder coffee development was the responsibillty of !MUD
until late 1983 when under a dlrectlve froo President Rauuda coffee
extension and development actlvltles were transferred to LINTCO. In line
with the smllholder development objective of the project, assistance
Including support provided by UNDP/FAO (para 3.25) concentrated lnltlally
on Northern Province. The tvo Coffee Development Offlcers (CDOs) engaged
under the project, with the help of four extension assistants and the
UNDP financed xpatriate coffee agronomist and extension specialist, were
successful in stimulating -,nsLderable farmers interests in coffee
growing. In Northern Province actual farmer recruitment exceeded mostly
appraisal estimates, reaching about 400 and 600 by the end of 1982 and
1983 respectively.
4.09   These results were encouragling especially In view of the difficult
circumstances under which the CDOs operated: due to the overall shortage
of funds and supply problems, staff was .often left without transport,
petrol and Inputs. Efforts in smallholder development were also
constrained by the lack of credit facilities and of ready marketing
outlets.
4.10   To overcome lnput supply, credit and marketing problems, and in an
attempt to expand the smallholder coffee sector rapldly, LINTCO was given
at the end of 1983 the mandate and funds for coffee development in
Zmbli. LINTCO establlshed for this purpose a Coffee Development and
Marketing Divislon provlidng extenslon and marketlg servlces Including
Input supply, credit and crop procurement. Adlinistration of the
UNDP/FAO project, and technical assistance provided under that project
were also transferred to LINTCO; the coffee development area was expanded
to cover four Provinces; and extension staff was Increased to lnclude one
Senlor Coffee Development Officer, four Provincial Coffee Officers, and
19 Dlstrict Coffee Officers. This development resulted in a considerable
expansion of the number of smallholder coffee growers which almost
doubled to about 1,200 by mid-1985. While the increased interest in
coffee growing has been a comsendable achievement, the effectiveness of
LINTOD's services has been limited due to a wmber of shortcomings:
(1)   the Coffee Division's extension staff have been
inexperienced end In- fficlently tralned in coffee agronomy
and processing; expertise in Irrigation development has been
lacklng;
(ii) scattered distributlon of the exlsting *mallholder coffee
growers has made the effectlve provision of services
difficult and costly;
(tll) due to the scattered distrlbution of coffee farmers and the
Coffee Division's lack of organlzation and management
expertise, little attention has been pald to grouping uoffee
growers Lato organlzational unlts which would: (a) enable
the establishment of Improved coffee processing facllities;
and (b) permit economlcal and effective provision of
services;



- 20 -
(iv)  coffee extension staff at grass root level have been dealing
also with several other crops such as soya and cotton, and
therefore have been able to spend only limited time on
coffee matters; and
(v)   equipment and transport available to extension staff has
been Insufficient.
4.11   During preparation of the Second Coffee Project it has become
apparent that a viable smallholder coffee industry will require adequate
concentration of smallholder growers and the grouping of small coffee
farmers into appropriate organizational units.  It has also become clear
that under Zambia's climatic conditions coffee plots can in most cases
not be established successfully if supplementary irrigation Is not
provided. Coffee yields obtained under rainfed conditions are generally
not sufficient to make production viable. Accurate statistical data on
euallholdar yields are not available, but estimates prepared by
consultants on the basis of field observations indicate that suallholder
coffee yields on rainfed land would generally be only 350 kg to 400 kg of
clean beans per hectare, while Irrigated coffee would yield about 900 kg
to 1,000 kg/ha.
4.12   The Second Coffee Project is addressing the above noted
shortcomings in smallholder coffee development. It finances technical
assistance, training and vehicles, equipment and materials required by
LMNSCO's Coffee Development Division. It concentrates on Northern and
Luapula Provinces and on smallholder groups using Irrigation facilities.
Furthermore, during preparation of the Second Coffee Project agreement
has been reached on a Government policy which limits public efforts in
smallholder coffee development to the areas which are agro-climatically
most suitable for coffee growing.
C.     Coffee Research
4.13   Coffee research has been carried out by fAWD's Coffee Research
Unit at Nisamfu Agricultural Research Station and two sub-stations near
Mpika and Mbala.  Under the above mentioned UNDP/FAO asslsted coffee
project an expatriate coffee agronomlst was financed who was initially
stationed at Nisamfu to assist the Unit In strengthening ongoing adaptlve
research work and develop new coffee research programs. Whlle a fev new
trials were Introduced with the agronomist's help, achievements In the
form of new research results have been Insignificant. Also, progress ln
strengthening the lnstitutional and research capabilities of the Coffee
Unlt has been negligible.  This has been largely due to continuous
underfunding of the Research Unit: It often received only 202 - 302 of
budget allocations. In addition, the UNDP financed agronomist could not
attend full-time to research matters as he was providing technical advice
also to extension staff and farmers. Furthermore, there seem to have
been little supervislon and critical examination of the research results
by ANUD. UNDP/FAO's active support of coffee research termLnated In 1984
with the transfer of the agronomist to LINTCO's headquarters In Lusaka.
A new effort to strengthen coffee research is now being made under the
Second Coffee Project, which would support the requirements (including
funding) of government coffee research beyond those included in the
Agricultural Research and Extension project. Components in the second
project include improvements in certain trial sites and processing
facilities, provision of laboratory, scientific and farm eiquipment and
technical assistance.



- 21 -
D.     Bank Performance
4.14   On balance, Bank performance was mixed.  The appraisal team
prepared cost estimates which were far too low for all major cost
categories. It also considerably underestimated the difficulties in
establishing and operating a large coffee estate within a parastatal
establishment. The project preparation team had highlighted the
dlscouraging experience with parastatal organizations in Zambia and
proposed a diverse ownership structure for the estates in order to ensure
that operations would follow commercial principles. Therefore it
recommended that the lank should consider withdrawing from the project if
a suitable ownership structure could not be agreed upon. The appraisal
mission however raid less attention to this issue, and it agreed to give
responsibility for the estates to an institution which was already beset
with problems even before taking on such additional responsibility. In
hindsight it would also sees that the aim to develop/rehabilitate 450
hectares of coffee may have been too ambitlous: at the time of appraisal
there had been very little experience with coffee growing in Zambia;
expertise in coffee production and processing was negligible; and the
project area was remote and had little support services available.
4.15   Bank supervision has overall been satisfactory.  21 missions
comprising specialists on coffee cultivation and processing, agronomy,
irrigation, economics and finance spent about 36 man-weeks in Zambia to
supervise the project. Supervision missions have helped project
management, INDECO and ZINCO to focus on some of the main implementation
bottlenecks such as shortcomings in crop husbandry practices;
procurement, accounting and cash management operations; cost control;
progress monitoring; and the quallty of clvil works construction. They
have also assisted In a more accurate re-assessment of project costs and
in finding at least partial solutions to the project's considerable
under-funding. Furthermore they actively participated in expeditious
preparation of documents required to change the project's legal
agreements once Government, ZIDCO and INDECO had decided to establish
ZCCL and transfer project responsibilities to the new Company. However,
supervision could have been more effective if some of the major issues in
project implementation had been brought out more forcefully during the
initial period of project implementation. This applies especially to the
unsatlsfactory irrigation system and land development where corrective
action should have been taken in the initial stages of establishing the
varlous coffee blocks. It also applies to the sub-standard agricultural
practices some of which are only nov being upgraded to meet acceptable
norms. On the other hand, it is difficult to separate these problems
entirely from the detrimental effects which the constant shortage of
funds had on all estate and processidng operations. As the funding
problem was never fully resolved, it would in retrospect sees that the
Bank should have been more forthcoming in providing additional financing
subject to an appropriate private sector participation in the project.
V. FINANCIAL PERFOUMANCE
5.01   Until the establishment of ZCCL in 1984, RUCOH Industries
maintained project accounts which differentiated between capital and
development expenditures. After deducting crop revenues and
miscellaneous Income, all expenditures were capitalized and consolidated



- 22 -
with the accounts of RUCOM's other operations. Accordingly, profLts
(losses) from project activitLes remained undetermined, and financial
operating performance vas not separately measured. Also, there were no
detailed budgets or analyses of cost variances which would have helped to
control cost and to assess better financial performance. The capitalized
project expendLtures as of March 31, 1984, when ZCCL took over project
assets, are presented in Annex 4, Table 1.
5.02  WLth the comencement of operations by ZCCL a separate proflt and
loss account vas established for the project. Folloving the
recom_ ndations of several supervision missLons, the Company also engaged
a Financlal Controller and has taken some steps to improve budgeting and
financial management. But more needs to be done to bring costs in line
vith operational requirements. ZCCL has recorded profits of K 230,000
and K 550,000 for the financial years 1984/85 and 1985/86 respectively.
For the first six months of 1Y1986/87 the Company's unaudlted accounts
indlcate a profit of K 2.4 million (see Annex 4, Table 2). These
favorable financial results have been due mainly to:
(1)   the substantial devaluatlon of the Kwacha in recent years:
between the beginning of FY1984/85 and the end of September,
the Kwacha has been devalued by about 802 against the US
Dollar. As a result, the Kvacha value of coffee export
earnings has quintupled over this perlod, vhlle operating
costs are estimated to have increased by less than 2002;
(iS) due to drought ln Brazll, world coffee prices were unusually
high duriag the perlod from October 1985 until September
1986. By early 1986, world prLces for arablca coffee were
almost 602 higher than the average of 1985. By mid-1986
they still exceeded the 1985 price average by about one
third;
(lili) until September 30, 1985 ZCCL continued to capitalize a
consLderable proportlon of pre-production expenditures;
thelr write-off - over a seven year period - comenced only
at the end of September 1985; and
(iv) depreciation of factory bulldings and machinery has not yet
h-e.. v*fI.eeteA 4w 700r'T  f4wneneL-  etteet *eaf~.8  th*
factory was commissioned only in. June 1986. Also,
depreciation charges are lov as the assets of the Company
have not been revalued to take account of the devaluation of
the Kvacha.
5.03   Taklg Into consideration the decrease In coffee prices In recent
months, and the price projections for arabica coffee prepared by the
Bank's Cooodlty Studies & ProjectLons DivisLoars, It is expected that
ZCCL vill Incur losses durLng the next years. Without conslderable
Improvements in management, and assuming that no addltlonal Livestments
are m*de to bring operatlons up to appropriate standards, and to expend
the coffee plantation to the orlglnal target area of 450 ha, It is
estimated that ZCCL's financial losses durLig the forthcoming nlne years
would average about K 1.1 million per annum (ln constant 1986 K). The



- 23 -
situation would be expected to improve subsequently, with the Company
becoing marginally profitable starting with 111996/97. ZCCL's cash flow
would be negative over the next decade requiring contlnuous borrowings of
about K 0.8 mllion a year.  The not present value of ZCC' s cash flow,
using a discount factor of 8S, would be negative. (Details are ln Annex
4, Tables 3 and 4).
5.04   If proposals for improving ZCCL's operations are implemented as
ou:lined In the Second Coffee Project - Includlg the strengthening of
anagement; participatlon of the private sector In the Coupany; and
lnvestments to upgrade efficiency and expand coffee plantation to the
original target area - the estates and factory would be financially
viable. With the proposed improvemnts and equity input by the private
sector, ZCCL's income is forecast to becom positive in FT 1990/91 with
anual profits Increasing to about K 5 million (In constant 1986 K)
starting in nY 1995/96. The Company's cash flow would enable debt
servicing of existing loans and of new borrowings which would be required
only during the period n1TY 1986708    T WV 9.AndC to;n.t -A       presen
value would be about K 20 million. (Details are In Annex 4, Tables 5 and
6.)
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.01 At appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the project's
estate and factory component was estimted at about 212. ERR was
re-estimted at 112 by the MLid-Tom Review MissLon (para 3.05). The
project's main beneflt was to accrue from the Increase In production and
"Il, of coffee expected from project Investments. Expectations have not
been realized. For example, for 1Y 1985/86, the project's Incremntal
coffee production was estimated at about 780 tons and some 900 tons by
the appraisal and Mid-Term Review Missions respectively. This compares
to an actual incremental production during that year of about 170 tons.
The under-achievement is due to delays in plantation establishment and
lower than expected yields which in turn have been the result of the
problems in management, funding, cost-controls etc. diacussed above.
Without improvemnts in management, increased cost-consciousness and the
additional investments required to make operations more efficient, ERR is
now stimated at minus seven percent (see Annex 4, Table 7).
Strengthening of manageuent, appropriate reductlons in operating costs,
and new lnvestnts proposed under the Second Coffee Project would
considerably improv  EU   But due to low coffee production In the past,
ad because of previous delays ln plantatlon establlshaent, ERR for the
entlre estate/factory component is estimted to be still only about two
percent even if needed Improvements and new lnvestmats are made (see
Annex 4, Table 8).  On the h      *d, as a result of the substantial amount of
sunk costs, ER on lcreomeatai investments and strengthening of
sanagment would be high: It Is estimted at about 252 (see Annex 4,
Table 9).
6.02   While the above economic results are disappointing, in evaluating
the project it needs to be considered that there are a number of
unquantified benefits accruing from the project to the coffee subsector
as a whole. These include the project's significant contribution to
developing a new industry in Zambla and sttmulating the interest ln



- 24 -
coffee production especially by comercial farmers who have a'ready
successfully established several coffee plantations. It has also helped
In setting up a marketlng network and in effectively Introducing Zambian
coffee on the international coffee market as a product with good quality
characteristics.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.01   The project was the Governsent's first major coffee development
program, and the first operation In which the Bank Group supported
Zambla's emerging coffee industry. When the project wes conceived, the
country had little experience with coffee. The area under coffee was
negligible, and annual production was less than 100 tons. The project
has been successful In laying the foundation for the establishment of a
viable coffee subsector in the country: experience galned under the
project has provided valuable Input into the design of a sultable
Covern ment coffee policy; it has also been beneficial to co  rcial and
suallholder farmers who have now taken up coffee production in larger
numbers. The project has furthermore succeeded in meeting part of its
narrower development objectives: of the 450 ha of estate coffee to be
established/rehabllitated under its main component, the project has been
able to achieve about 702, and the project financed coffee factory has
been commissioned and is operational. Furthormore, the UNDP financed
smallholder coffee development program has shown that there Is some
potential for a small growers coffee subsector. The program has however
also demonstrated that coffee can only be grown profitably by
smallholders lf supplementary irrigation Is avallable and If coffee
growers organize themselves Into effective farmer groups.
7.02   The project has so far failed In its production objectives and In
Its aim to establish a viable coffee company capable of operating the two
project estates and the coffee mill. This has been mainly due to
unreliable cost estimates at appraisal, a consequent severe shortage of
funds, an uncatisfactory irrigatlon system, and inadequate management.
However, the problems experienced during project implementation and the
diffzculties encountered in resolving them have also made it Lncreasingly
cler that the cholce of RUCOK Industries, and more general of a
parastatal organizatlon, for Implementing a project component of this
sixe and complexity has been inappropriate. It is thus also unlikely for
the future that the necessary Liprovements In operational effectiveness,
*mg the cost consciousness required to ensure efficient operations, can
be achleved within the existing structure of ZCCL. Rather, as pointed
out by supervision missions, incrazsed efficiency and effectiveness
together with addtilonal equity required to finance pert of the Company's
remaining investment needs would most suitably be provided through
appropriate private sector particlpatlon In ZCCL.
7.03   The lessons learned from the project have been Incorporated into
the design of the Second Coffee Project and Into the coffee pollcy
prepared by GRZ in consultation with IDA. Both the policy *nd the Second
Coffee Project concentrate on future coffee development In the private
sector Including large and small farmers. With regard to smallholders,
they furthermore emphasize the need for cost effective production
limiting publlc sector and project assistance to areas which are



- 25 -
agrocilatically most suitable with adequate Irrigation potential, and
where vlable farmer groups can be suitably organized. With regard to
ZCCL, the Second Coffee Projoct providso funds to upgrade management and
operations so that the Company can become viable. However as the
efficiency and cost effectiveness required to ensure such viability
cannot be expected to be achieved within ZCCL'z present ownership
structure, IDA fliancing provisions for this component are contingent on
the completion of satlfactory equity partlcipation arrangements which
would roquiro slgnificant private sector lnvolvement In the institution.



- 27 -
AINNE X 1
Pogo I of 6
ZAMBIA COFFEE PROJECT (CREDIT 863-ZA)
DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - ESTATES AND FACTORY DEVELOPMENT
(Prepared by ZCCL)
1.      INTRODUCTION:
1.01    The Coffee Project is the first Bank assisted project In Zambia.
This PCR ls based on material gathered from Staff Appraisal Report of
1975, the Report of the Supervision Mission of 1981 and the records of
Zmbla Coffee Company Limited.
1.02    The Coffee Sub-sector.  Coffee production in Zambia was mainly
confined to the Northern Province, the site of this project. Estate
productlon of coffee was restricted to tvo Estates at Ngoli and Kateshi.
Sbe m*a constraints in developing estate coffee production are lack of
szalting large state farms In the coffee area; lack of identification of
mw eites, where estates could be established in the Northern Province,
lack of expertise in estate coffee production and processing and lack of
funds.
1.03    Agricultural Policy.  Zambia's policy on agricultural and rural
development are:
(a)   achieving a more even distribution of rural incomes by
redressing the imbalance of social and economic
opportunities vhich favor urban workers over rural workers;
(b)   attaining self sufficiency in food stuffs and lidustrial
crops; and
(c)   dLversifying the economy and widening the export base by
producing and exporting agricultural surpluses.
1.04    The objectives of the state component of the Project as conceived
1i 1978, were to:
':)     h.41"t:t: -o :exit4in  4ww4.t^.  =ff   estate of f0 Sh
at Ngoll whlch, upto that time, had been the responsibility
of the Minlstry of Agriculture and
(b)   develop a coffee estate at Kateshl of some 400 ha which
would also be Irrigated. Those two estate are respectively
about 55 kas and 35 bms north of lamama In the Northern
Province of Zambia. The project also provided for the
establishment of coffee processing faclilties to pulp, dry,
hull, grade, roast, grind and reack the coffee from the
estates. The project was to be completed In S years and
would produce an average of 800 tonnes of clean coffee per
annum at full development, mainly for domestLc
consumptton. 450 ha of maize would be grown principally to



28 -
ANNEX 1
page 2 of 6
provide culsh -     .      this would produce about 2000
tons c-f maie grin  ;   lae annually.  The cost of .he
project was estn*t-ad &v K5.605 million (US$6.726 M).
IDAV s financing intlud-: e tc  amallholder component and the
coffee research cooon.,c was to be US*S.4 M.
1.05    Institutions.  The estate :c-alovant of the project was to be
carried out by Rucom Industricr Ltd.  Rucom is a parastatal and a wholly
owned subsidiary of Indeco Ltd which In turn is a wholly owned subsidiary
of ZINCO Ltd.
2.      PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATTON AND APPRAISAL:
The XinIztry of Lands and Agricultu.re planted coffee in 50 ha at
Ngoll where water potential was enough from Kabulukutu and Chaafubu
rivers. This experiment had already proved beyond any reasonable doubt
that agroclimatic conditions in the region were suitable for producing
quality coffee. Realling the success of Ngoli Coffee Scheme the
Government of Zambia through Rucom Industries Limited wanted to expand
the coffee growing activity in the Northern Province.  In 1976 Rucom
Industries Limited planted again on experiment basis 14 ha of coffee at
Kateshi where water was available in abundance from Lukupa river.
Results of this experlment were also encouraging.
In March, 1978 the World Bank appraisal Mission visited Zambia
for preparing the report on Coffee Project, which was the basis of the
bank's lnvolvement and funding.
3.      IMPLEMENTATION:
3.01    The implementation of the coffee project has not been totally
successful. The targets set in the appraisal report both with regard to
the estate development and the coffee processing factory have not been
met both in timing and physical terms. The limited success of thc
project has been the result of a combination of factors such as staffing,
funding, changes in part of the project concept and institutional
drawbacks experienced during the implementation of the project.
3.02    Effectiveness and Start Up.  The original date of effectiveness
was scheduled to be 26 April 1979. This was hovever conditional upon the
recruitment of two Internationally recruited project staff in
consultation wiuh the IDA. The actual effective date of the project was
July 26, 1979 following the arrival in May and July 1979 of the
internationally recruited Plantation Manager and Project Englneer
respectively.
3.03    Revisions. A mid tern appralsal mission In March 1981 analysed
the projects development.   The mission worked at various scenarios with
regard to the irrigation systems and the coffee processing equipment.
The Mission recommended that the 450 hectares be developed on the bceis
of a gravity-cum-pump irrigation system as the yields of coffee under



- 29 -
ALNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
this scenario would be higher than a purely gravity Irrigation system.
The Mlssion's findligs were that the average 7 year yield of the first
planting cycle would be 1357 kas of coffee per hectare as agalst 1300
kgs eatimated at appraisal. The yields in the second and subsequent
prunlng cycles were estimated as 1970 kgs/hectare on a 5 year cycle as
against 1800 ka eatimated at appraisal. With regard to the coffee
processing factory, the mid term mslsion was of the oplnion that the
market concept as envisaged In the appraisal report did not tie up with
the type of processing recommended. The appralsal report has considered
that the project would cater to the domestic markets. However, the mid
term mlsslon was of the opinion that the machinery and process design
would yield coffee that was fit for exports and earn much needed foreign
exchange for the country. Hence the project concept was revlsed to
export 802 of the out-put and sell only 202 on the doaestic markets.
3.04    implementation.  As early as January 1980 It became apparent from
an analysla of the 1980/81 estimates and past expenditures that total
project cost would be considerably higher than foreseen at appraisal.
Project management was constrained by shortage of equipment and materials
that frequently had to be substituted by labor thereby increasing costs
conslderably and adding to management problems. An additional problem
which haspered operations was the Initial lack of communicatIon between
Ruco- HQ and Kateshi and between K&teshi and Ngoll. In the light of
these pioblems an indepth review mission was called for.
3.05    Estate Developomnt.  The appraisal estimates of estate
development was as follows with regard to Kateshi:
Maizo      Coffee      Total
Period                Bush Clearing         Hectare    Hectare   Coffee Ha.
Pre Project                54 ha               40           14         14
Year 1                    560"                160          40          54
Year 2                    186 "               260         100         154
Year 3                      -                 360         100         254
--                                            400          I           54
YerS                        -                 400          46         400
Year 6
As ldlcated earller, there were several problems that the project was
faced with aod lmplementation could not be in line with appralsal
projectlons.
Vlth regard to bush clearing, a total area of 1200 hectares has
been cleared at Zateshi. Coffee plantations have reached 345 hectares
but there is stlll need for gapplag th_s hectarage as the plant densities
are not In line with optimum densities. Maize area Is presently at 450
hectares. In addition 100 hectares have been planted under soya both as
a rotational crop and for commercial Income.



-30 -
iL9INE 1
Page A of 6
The *r a under coffee at Ngoli stands at 62 hectares.
In additlon to the problems statcd above two additional reasons
have caused the delay. In physlcal terms it vae originally recomended
that land clearing operations would leave the larger ant hills standing.
This proved to be I-practical because of actual number and size. The
other significant factor was the under-estimation of project cost at
apprat al. The mid term mission put the total project cost at K14.27
millilon (US$ 17.8 mllllon) against the appralsal estimates of KS.6
Million (US$7 Million).
3.06    Ylelds.  The yields experienced to date both in coffee and maize
have beon much lower than estimated both at the time of the appralsal. and
the mid term mossion. Actual ylelds of coffee during the 1985 was in the
reglon of 700 - 800 kgs per hectare as against the original estimates of
1300 kg* during the first cycle. Reasons for the lov yields have been
the delays in planting, lower than estimAted plant densities lack of
Inputs on time, Inadequate mulching, unsatisfactory agronomical practices
and a poorly designed irrigation system.
Yields of maixe have been belov levels originally estimated. At
appraisal yields were estimated at 4.8 MT per hectare and revised
downwards to 4.0 MT at mdd term appraisal. Current levels of yields have
been in the regLon of 2.7 tonnes per hectare. The low ylelds are due to
a lack of Inputs on tia  and non-avallablllty of adequate eaehInery on
3.07    Factory.  The processing factory is expcted to be comdissLoned
in April IA 7 The delays In thlo regard have been mny. In 1980
tenders were lnvited for the factory and services of a consultancy were
engaged for evaluatitg them.
3.08    Disbursements.  The project was disbursed from R4EA as follows:
CUMULATIVE
US$           Mt              US$              ZR
1979/80       1,075,006.53       846,998.51    1,075,006.53      846,998.51
1960/81       1,077,641.12       878,975.69    2,152,647.65   1,725,974.20
1961/82         751,794.80       636,494.11    2,904,442.45   2,364,468.31
1962/63         664,276.69       627,034.12    3,568,719.14   2,991,502.43
1963/64         662,988.96    1,398,223.28    4,431,708.10   4,389,725.71
1964/85       1,041,714.07    1,760,798.15    5,473,422.17   6,170,523.86
1985/86         371,086.56    1,290,425.83    5,844,508.73   7,460,949.67 -'
~~  -  -. --:.    J
3.09     Training.  The appralsal envisaged the replacment of the
Plantation Manager and Engineering Manager by Natlonals at the and of the
project. This was not achieved as no sultable understudy could be
ldenatfled. 3 plantatlon personnel attended a 14 day study tour in
Zeny&. One person attended a 10 week liquoring course In UK but has



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
since left the project. 2 Engineers attended a 10 week course on
agricultural equipment but one of theo has since left the project. 3
persons attended a marketlng seminar In Europe. Two persons attended a
90 day course ln Kenya on liquoring and marketing of coffee. The
appraisal report provided for K33000 for tralning. In retrospect, this
figure appears to be low. Further the project had difficulty in
obtalning the right calibre of staff due to Its location.
3.10     Costs.  The actual costs of the project to-date including the
coapletion of the factory Is estimated at about K32 M as against an
appraisal estimate of K5.605 Million (US$7 M) as shown in the annexure
I. Significant cost overrun were recorded both in the estate development
and the factory costs. The mid term appraisal estimated the cost of the
project at X14.27 K (US*17,8 Million). The reasons for the overrun are
an under estimate of costs at project appraisal, lack of local funding, a
significant change in the factory daslgn, infl4tionary factors and delays
in implementation. A further reason for the cost overrun was the
extensive use of labor for estate development. In Kwacha terms, the
depreciating value of the Kwacha over the period of the project was also
a significant factor.  Cost overruns 'aave been financed largely by
Indeco/Zimco and local borrowings. A decision on the final capital
structure of the company will taken shortly.
3.11     Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers.  The
performance of the contractors as regards the factory could have been
better which would have enabled Its completion at an earlier date. The
factory design, whlch was done by a Consultant, has been criticised by a
recent Consultant of IDML Some of the problens of the development of the
estates could have been avoided. Projections of estimates by visiting
consultants have not been accurate.
3.12     Accounting, Auditing and Progress Reporting.  The projects
record of producing timely financial statements and audited reports was
satisfactory. The Management reporting systems are being improved.
Detailed budgets are now belng prepared. The availability of accounting
staff at the Project continues to be a problem due to the housing
situation.
3.13     Procurement.  The project has been faced wlth problems of
pro,curemnt due to Lts situation. Procurement was also haupered due to
financial constraints.
4.       OPESATING P1RFOMANCP:
As lndlcated earller the performance of the estates has still
not come up to the projected levels. Since the processing factory has
not been completed, it is only hoped that the quality of the product will
be up to the expected standards.
5.       FIPNCIAL PERFORMANCE:
5.01     The appraisal estimated the internal financial rate of return at
14% over a 25 year perlod. The revised financial rate of return on the
new project cost on the basis of 1986 constant prices is 12% as shown in



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
a Annexure rl. A recent reappraisal of the project has indicated that
unless significant investments are made, the project will not realise tts
full potential. In arriving at the new internal rate of return, it has
been assumed that such further lnvestments will be available.
6.       INSTITUTIONAL PERFORANCE:
6.01     Rucou vhich undertook the project Initially found it difficult
to manage the project effectively due to its multi-farious activities.
Hence a new company Zambia Coffee Coupany was incorporated in 1982 to
take over the coffee project. However the actual take over was completed
only with effect from 1 April 1984. ZCCL's management has been faced
with a serious problem of staffing. The location of the estates is an
impedement to getting staff of the right calibre. This has been
compounded by the fact that the staff housing problem on the estate has
not been fully resolved. The project continues to depend upon expatriate
staff particularly in key technical and accounting fields. In training
of staff ZCCL has not been very successful and 2 persons who were trained
have since left.
ZCCL Is currently under the charge of a full time General
Manager with a strong agricultural background.
Budgetary controls are being enforced. A management information
system is being put into place.
7.       OONCLUSION
7.01     In physical terms, the isplementation of the project may be
regarded as satisfactory given the constraints the project was faced
with. The size, scheduling and complexity of the project was under
estimated. The overall project concept has to be changed mid way its
Implementation. The Implementation capacity of the original executing
authority was not up to expected levels because of its other
commitments. The scheduling of civil works and procurements did not take
into account the local problems of the site and the financial
constraints. Operating forecasts did not prove to be reasonable. On the
other hand, the project is earning foreign exchange instead of belng an
lport substitution one.
7.02     The future of the project is still unclear.  Estimates made by
IDA Consultants indicate that the full potentlal of the project can never
be achieved unless further substantial Investments can be made.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
ANNEXURE I
ZAMBIA COFEE COMPANY LITTED
PROJECT COST
LATEST ESTIMATE          PER
ON COMPLETION           S.A.R.
K' 000             K' O0O
LAND BUILDINGS                           9,665             2,054
PLANT, MACHINERY, EqUIPMENT             10,282)              735
VEHICLES                                 1,505)
FURIITURE, FIXTURE, FITTINGS ETC.          280                 -
PRBRODUCTION& DEVELOPMENT               10,201             2,816
EXPENDITURE
31,933             5,605
_ _           ''  '~~~nuin



- 34 -
A.NSEX 1
NVEXLRE  :
ZAHNSA COFFEE COMPANY L4I1TED
CCMPUTATION OF INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
YEAR       FUNDS    FUNDS   NET   DISCOUNT   NET PRESENT  DISCOUNT  NET PRESENT
OUTFLOW  INFLOW  FLOW    102          VALUE         122      VALUE
-Kt' 000    K' 000   i0o              V00                       K' 00
1979 - 80   1706        -   (1706)    0.909       (1551)         0.893    (1523)
80 - 81   1683        -   (1683)    0.826       (1390)          .797    (1341)
81 - 82   2099        -   (2099)    0.751       (1576)          .712    (1494)
82 - 83   1540        -   (1540)    0.683       (1052)          .636    ( 979)
83 - 84   1734        -   (1734)    0.621       (1077)          .567    ( 983)
84 - 85   4781      232   (4549)    0.564       (2566)          .507    (2306)
85 - 86   6472      861   (5611)    0.513       (2978)          .452    (2536)
86 - 87   8005      473   (7532)    0.467       (3517)          .404    (3043)
87 - 88    963    1539      576      0.424        244           .361       208
88 - 89   4903    3102   (1801)    0.386        ( 695)          .322    t 580)
89 - 90    785    6472    5687       0.350       1990           .287     1632
90 - 91    195    7596    7401       0.319       2361           .257      1902
91 - 92    600    7596    6996       0.290       2029           .229      1602
92 - 93    600    7596    6996       0.263       1840           .205      1434
93 - 94    600    7596    6996       0.239       1672           .183      1280
94 - 95    600    7596    6996       0.218       1525           .163      1140
95 - 9G    600    7596    6996       0.198       1385           .146      1021
96 - 97    600    7596    6996       0.180       1259           .130       909
97 - 98    600    7596    6996       0.164       1147           .116       811
98 - 99    600    7596    6996       0.149       1042           .104       728
99 - 2000  600    7596    6996       0.135        944           .093       651
2000 - 2001  600    7596    6996       0.123        861           .083       581
01 - 02    600    7596    6996       0.112        784           .074       518
02 - 03    600    7596    6996       0.102        716           .066       462
03 - 04    600    7596    6996       0.092        643           .059       412
4,140                     506
__                ....~~~~~



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
TAble 1
WZA
COFnE PRODUCTION PROJECT - CR. 863-ZA
Project Cowmletion Regort
Cost Estimates at Appraisal and :t Mid-Term Reviev
For Project Cgponents Implemnted by RUCOM
Mid-Term         Appraisal
(k '000) --
Estate Component
Land clearing                                642               304
Vehicles, equipment, furniture             1,469               510
Vehicle operating costs                      785                139
Crop inputs                                  666               316
Labor Vages                                1,657               509
Irrigation including pumps and
operatiou                               427               677
Roads and tracks                             116                96
Buildings, stores and houses               1,987             1,046
Management and Administration             1671                876
Sub-total                                  9,620             4,473
Prucessing Plant
Kbchinery and buildings                    3,746               940
Addition 500 KVA pover line                  128                -
Training                                      65                -
Sub-total                                  3,939               940
Other Components ImPlemnted by RUCOK                130               192
Grand total-/                             13,689             5,605
Grand total in USS/-                             17.U1              6.8M
&/ Excludes Luildings related to processing pleant.
T/ Includes contingencies
c/ Prevailing exchange rates: K1.00 a U8$1.25 - at mid-term reviev;
K 1.00 * US$ 1.20 - at appraisal



-  s^  'r
toloaes _      -n
Ad aV                                              m
M~  WW,W FUSII1 REAl- l                     ElR    -                 351  _*
d C  ad
Vgu hm                 1 n    IN      24       114      25       u       13      74       -       13      3U           413
ad  _P%ma            33       2        a       3        a       as      36        73      2      1.467     GU          U
ftr,qm  on  -I
if*lm                 16      Got      75       M1     60       163     3         73     a1      4,247    1.157       3.6616
kdpS1in3wsbmft                  23       53     US        a7      2         1       -      -        33      3aM         (023
A011111111"-             3       24       23                -       -       -       -         7      135(3
-ot ad ltIr
Nuaw            iD      27       544     65        7        4       4      424    1n       2,37     1.255       1.32
am"y Ulu 5t
a   -.   -       -        -       -        -      3       363   233    1i0m       23       3.15    1.M0         2,2
ooumtad
ad Wmm&qO             21      23S     23       2M      M        la.     162       61     to      I-I     1.32           34
1110416111421   1im          1.4      2.366    5,36    I,42    3*416   1.135    5?       14.51    6.724       7.6
L.           wa     m      OA4    NA       127      mS                                so13 44 6  MA.    1,746   Su4         3
3.                         in.&   6NA       is              146      i3n      54       38    um ___             SE
M    ~  ~   orn    ft  ha. ~wham   m  adamp~am hmwuu  atq stow jtm Cleo" pan.
OMIIIIOvfidtMI SW tk   MU  ofla POKA7 ad ealosd lmofy ad hnqm  mona*m mm In to be gMd IV mom.
A' I1wh pa1-1 ad Prm OMaUinm.
jf   m  ma ut~10 S    k 119MI quafiag  od1tom *g*qg dsAcm1t twa
G' ahAlaUm tb1ha bum of "brs de& Iom the uWAiO Omi".*   Ger  pm3t. 33~mD1 flimme co" bw tor 41Ia0&0 to Sbo M1NDU
ad       IOMPIM f ha Sb I kale  d  I. PoM)t NW ClaINi VMgg  33, M. A =MWIrN3 at MeSbR MA 411111t for tta mIlto3S                        'i
ommm  ,ith Nm,am imma    M" "M 131/9   ala*1i pwoo Is mmqfa3l adAy to a I ttioud antma t-  Mum lasero%ua   a lerga  wojs
smi _l to _dafo&to   D



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT - CREDIT 863-ZA
Proiect Completion Report
Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
(USS '000)
Cumulative           Actual        Actual Disbursement
Bank Group          Disbursements       Disbursements    as % of Appraisal
FY and Quarter  (Appraisal Estimates)                          Estimate
FY 79  Q3                360                     0                0
Q4                600                     0                0
n 80  Q1               1,080                     18                2
Q2              1,540                   580               38
Q3              1,740                 1,075               62
Q4              2,000                 1,115               56
FY 81  Ql              2,260                 1,134               63
Q2             2,580                  1,754               68
Q3              2,960                 2,149               73
Q4              3,340                 2,328               70
FY 82  Ql              3,860                 2,570                67
Q2             4,170                  2,626               63
Q3             4,450                  2,900               65
Q4             4,670                  2,930               64
FY 83  Ql              4,900                 3,550                72
Q2              5,260                 3,559               68
Q3              5,490                 3,569               65
Q4              5,720                 3,581               63
FY 84  Ql              6,000 1/              3,841                64
Q2              6,000                 3,871               65
Q3              6,000                 4,338               72
Q4              6,000                 5,105               85
rY 85  Ql              5,000                 5,213                87
Q2              6,000                 5,442               91
Q3              6,000                 5,554               93
Q4              6,000                 5,705               95
FY 86  Ql              6,000                 5,803                97
Q2              6,000                 5,867               98
Q3              6,000                 5,950               99
Q4              6,000                 5,997 2/           100
1/ SAR para 4.36 indicated disbursements ending September 1983, while
the Development Credit Agreement specified September 1984 as the
Closing Date.
2/ The Credit was closed in May 1986. About $3,500 of the Credit amount
remained undisbursed and were cancelled.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT - CR. 863-ZA
Proiect CM'eletion Revort
Credit Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Amount of Credit        Actual          Actual
Category                     Allocated ln DCAi/  Disbursement    as S of
Allocation
A.   Estate and Process-
ing Component
(1) Vehicles, Equipment,
Machinery                    785                2,447          312
(2) Technical Assistance
and Training                 450                  650          144
(3) Civil Works and Land
Preparation                2,355                1,923           82
(4)  Salaries and Wages             560                  902          161
(5)  Incremental Inputs             225                   60           27
D.   S0allholders Comuonent
(6) Vehicles, Equipment,
Civil Works, Operating
Costs, Salaries, Wages,
Training                     670                   1S            2
(7)  Technical Assistance           280                    -            0
C.   Research Component
(8) Vehicles, Equipmnt,
Machinery, Inputs,
Ope?tilng Costs,
Tralioln                     675                  _              0
Total                        6,000                5,297
1/   Unallocated Crodit aaount of US$650,000 has been dlstributed
proportionately to various categories.



- 39 -
ZAZBIA                              AY"ES 3
COFFEE PRODUCTION -      CREDIT 863-ZA            Page 1 of
Prosect Completion Report
Targets A Achievemnts at Proiect C Mltion
Appraisal     Actual
Ite"                        Unit          Tarpet    Achievements
Coffee production                        tons           621 1/        200 1/
Maize production                         tons         1,973 1/      1,480 T/
Bush cleariag                            ha             800         1,635 1/
Maize planting                           ha             450           SOO T/
Coffee planting                          ha             450           407 7/
Farm machinery procur_ment
-   tractors 70/80 UP                    No               6             0 3/
-   tractors 40/50 BP                    no              12             7 t/
-   trailers (7 ton cap.)                No               S             6 5/
-   trailers (3.5 ton cap.)              No               6             8 ai
-   lorry                                No               1             2
-   combine                              No               -             1
Implem_nts procurement             S completlon           -            85
Irrigation development
-   main canal construction (9ka) X completion          100           100
-   field distr. canl const-
ruction (44 ka)                S completion         100           85
-   night resqrvoir construction
(30,000 a-)                          No               1             2 7/
-   installation of pumps                no               3             7 T/
-   piping to resezvoir (1 km)    X completion          100           100
-   generator                           Nm                -             4 9/
Farm and access tracks
-   farm entrance tracks                 WE               6             4.5
-   access tracks                        Ka              55            55
-   track along canal                    Ka               5             -
Personnel transport
-   cars                                 no               -             4
-   4MD station wagons                   so               2             5
-   4ID pick-ups                         No               3             2
-    u                                   no               -             1
-   motorcycles                          no               5            12
Workshop tocle                       2 procured           -            80
Communication, office equipment
-   radio sets                           No               2             2 11/
-   office equlpment                 2 completion         -           100
Staff housing
-   for managers                         No               3             3
-   for assistants                       No               7             4
-   for support staff                    No              31             8
-   for permanent laborers               No              50            45 10/



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Building construction
-   Kateshi - farm buildings            % completion       100        100 11/
-   puplpery                            2 completion       100        100 12/
-   input stro.                         2 completion       100        100
-   workshop                            Z completion       100        100
-   lmplesent shed.                     X completion       100        100 13/
-   office                              2 completion       100        100
-   Ngoli - addl. fermnting tanks       X completion       100        100
-   addl. drying tables                 2 completion       100        100
-   Input store                         2 completion       100          -
-   power houses                        2 completion       100        100
-   Kasama - coffee mill                % completion       100         85 14/
-   warehouse                           2 completion       100       N.A. 15/
Coffee processing machinery
-   Kateshi - pulping machin2ry         Set                   4         2 16/
-   pumps                               No                   3          3
-   moisture meter                      No                    1         1
-   factory machinery                   2 lnstallatlon    100         100 17/
Training
-   general (3 persons)                  Days                45        45 18/
pulplag (1 person)                  Days                90         90
mechanical, electrial (2 persons)  Days                180        180 19/
-   coffee mill operations (1 person)  Days                 15          -
-   coffee liquoring (1 person)         Days                90        180 20/
Preparation of future project           K'000              167       N.A. 2/
1/  Targets and achievements for 1986
2/  Effective coffee area planted Is only 308 ha If gaps in plantations
are considered.
3/  Includes tractors with higher HP.
Ti Inlcudes tractors with lower HP.
5/  Includes trallers wlth higher loading capacity.
6/  Includes trailers with lower loading capaclty.
T/  A feeder reservoLr (12,000 i3) and a night storage reservoir
(17,000 m3) have been constructed at kateshi.
8/  Includes 3 portable pumps.
9/ Three 250KVA sets for factory; 34KVA set Lnstalled at Ngoll.
TO/ Soma support staff is housed in low cost housing.
iU/ Includes pump house and 300 ton bulk silo.
IY/ Ezisting pulpery was improved.
13/ Existing shed from Ngoli was moved to Kateshl.
14/ Perimeter fencLng and connection to natlonal grld yet to be completed.
T5/ Is part of coffee mill.
16/ Procurement of 2 addltlonal sets has been postponed until productlon
volume justifies their procurement.
17/ Machinery has been installed, but some replacements are requlred.
18/ Comprises field agricultural trainLug of 15 days each for 3 persons.
IT/ Two persons were tamned in mechanical engineering, but one failed to
complete course successfully.
20/ Two persons have been tralned.
21/ Has been carrled out under Technical Assistance Project, Cr.873-ZA.



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Table T
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTICON PROJECT CR. 863-ZA
Project Co2pletion Report
Capitalized ProJect Expenditures as of March 31. 1984 -
vhen ZCCL Took Over ProJect Assets
K '000
Fixed Assets
Leasehold, Land, Buildings                                     2,356
Plant & Machinery                                                556
Vehicles                                                         471
Office Equipment                                                   59
Capltal Work-In Progress                                           20
Sub-Total                                               3,462
Less: Depreciation                                               536
Total Fixed Assets                                      2,926
Pre-Production and Development Expenditure
Crop Inputs                                                    1,018
Wages                                                           2,189
Management 6 Administration                                     1,316
Fuel and Repairs                                                 755
Travel and Sundries                                              394
Interest and Bank Charges                                      1,105
Depreciation                                                     543
Sub-Total                                               7,320
Less : Stocks of Materials on Hand                               508
Crops Revenue                                             926
Interest Income                                             8
Sub-Total                                               1,442
Plus:  Pro-Project Expenditure                                   127
Total Pre-Production and Development
Expenditures                                            6.005 Y/
Total Capitalized Expenditures                                 8,931
1/    Comprises: (i) Development Expenditures of K 3,989,000 and (ii)
Pro-Production Expenditures of K 2,016,000.



- 42 -
A.%NEX 4
Table 2
ZMBIA
eoPF   M1ODUCTIOPIOHOJCYCT - CR. 863-ZA
Project Completion Report
Profit and Loss State ent for ZCCL
FY84/85    FT85/86   FY86/87
Sales                                    769        5,520     6,861
Cost of Sales                            396        3,314     2j563
Gross Profit                             373        2,206     4,298
Adminlstratlve s peaes                   224        1,206       787
Selliln  and Dlstrlbutiou lzpenses        90          311       684
Finance Charges                            9          487       193
Operating Profit                          SO          202     2,634
Other Income (Charges)                   180          348      (240)
Net Profit                               230          550     2,394
I/ First half year through September 30, 1986 (unaudited)



. . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
imistiukry                                                                                           IM   211lwataI6Ut~waq hi%      bm
k4upwA as Insists"e  aum g mwiv G                                                 hsSm
Om    W8410 as.a townumshiS a2A  aius  awmn am                               auu m        awh~ nw,      is ma   ame ume  ies ame   am  ame               a     aESl
lengm to                        .     .          .          .u.      .         .           .     .       . ....-.-. .                        - .      
""u.id em umaomsU st wpi         a8   15    so.  SW   lie   ISO    i    1 2      uS a    5 IS   SW   3W a        5    ai   385  lI   li    311  1           0    v56           St u 
MM is.5aeaImpafer.s             S0     U          0 6          "   0  45   45    "    40   0"   45   45   45   Ub   0b    40   60                    45    6     45   45    45
aaaaaWNSUaIflK   lode    s   Su       D    ZU    U3    51    11   515    5  3 U        SR   U3   Si?   55    U    Su    Su    5    U    si               Su   SU       551
laaaLapaealqmaaum      ~~449  *49   4n   *49   *4w   *4    49  249   549   Ut2  *4    in    *9   549  hS    ine   on   549   on9  549   in   549   *9 
taley (liae  C  u
Us                       ib -Ipis    131.53115I   iu 533   51     233)313   15 3  153  531                13   M 531       2153  21    13  2152153  Zl  31             II1
kn  10   91    9o   91       4111        91 65    0    91   91   91   91%   91   931   931   916  gm    tit   91   916   916   91   910   91      9
Cost St                   lba 23    U2   hII   hII   ii   IIl  isJi   h3   Isa   fisg   In   In   He   In   la   In   ISO   In   isa   In   isa   isa   ina    hI
-5"ig                          *5gmls6   91  41U   91   910   91s   91    91   he   be    be    be    91   91   91   91   941   be    91   91   91   91   91    916
Iot   .mta"Cu                  Seb  is   15  NVI    Iig   .I   i,  fill   1          152   15A  11*        J1 P  P       12   hn  15    i  P11    IS2   34fl Ila   IlA    is.



0
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'U*.
6tmsl6i - s,i    v t im wol_ hapan - p  tA"  96611)66 a el  up" waUta,, Mip sll b q  samo ImN _wwor am #A% 1 11 to
*.sg  =I] s   in   M  1 p dn   s hM     ms PM 11)116,14 muP3 13 M A   d.qws  PI;d' Po  ,t saswid bun. wa  miapiJ  yp3  1"nx SPI bleap 1338nl
saigvl au  Am  A   Jlp 0110 m;ps hAsi MA msul i*3.i mu.3 pPM, q0 s pm 6916 IA* 4 1*'   6 ON   I IIslumi aw W. mWssOf bn    W2!Ji .l'I.AI ppf iSAIpSa P11681W  1365169158  W3fI    It
u.3 muuit~ 'Amasqs hElsUm JD wow loonibide 861 VW iPSSSf blub 661Kamlma as"1166696 UWINIbIUS P21111% 1
hlalhiuiss IS in~P hIffAl Al W IS 1613911' 69 ksIsuAs
pU   qiw an k  a5 r. :1 559 mm6 wesasq .555553 so as GM OPP 1953 88IM- S %AMs 011ps0 tt, hsgss 561WI #PMi mo   mpin6 TM qin  SWAP uipNI65SAM s oP3mow sppi  s' 69)1 
il43iti A893-U p iIUq an U "IPWIii WA a siq n 5(66 mi U4)so-A 6556ell  5993)5waltuo     as5) SNUMI we N %T 6166 en p45  -P fh ps 66 NI  u Il ~pS6pS Om we vim2 lovioA of
WO3M mp, PM" mais pm mm  sa*4 asqt " pinM siNwlUA p1 _p     651n a      Psave  _ u'a p 1 i
I  Wi Ag psEbi_ smastisi all inN 8 1  Slmg N U 5116t61 6a
_ n Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sailmif   :1AI                                                     _   41_   *At   OM   WI tit-*   Wwte*ot tttXwX*  Je  Xn4* OI_w w 
I,J f^|w$*" " Ztt    m    m  ""t tSt  t m    gm  Xon   lt  } P UI hup1  a bilt     mu   m   un muss p " umb"
I 64   t   M    aW   MWt   M    tg   S    14   SN   S    SN   MN   M   S    IN   *t   ft   4   lit    l                    9    1f
Let ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      " LUt  Ut-    *t tL_E _t Ut   Ut   Utj* Ut U  e  t U .^ U    U U  t tt
a    usP  us9  usJl uIJs aw- a Jl  Jul   usW  usz  us   *P  us   us   m@  ust. _s   a   AUs   ust  |tl t     a    us   o                      _stS,Ws
4%                                                                      4%  1 ot   as   06   Ki   a"   f*   or F       " " F "       "?   "            twooss*trt
t em   us   ss   a    u a   to   of   no   em   -149  ti   tip  tip  li   gm   lt   1W   1W  1   U?   Pr 't S                        a t
1111114 6t14K 495e Wi$h WIS 9    WISK 1111  c '1 W11 MK  NOW 46194111149 WISh %14 11W34 9416           41 1     4134U1 391 t 4 1u1i"1 uemil RfIM,



a a-CIU        11111111 fut lalitW    L L  ilat
hsaI uSetb"Iq. - U ML mu
3e~ l~swsu  a. bmgd ad anslat
eta ""Mt3  aft  1*496
a. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~    ~         ~        ~        ~               . ......... ..
nil ~rna    Sam Smm   5169  114u I"e  01459  5102i  3114  h14ID 5W%   1Wb  NW    i I ON "011   NWo s1b11 MWU own   311o  SW awn  Swm   1v  3msW  hsW
I,           -ii).   -jig    -jig    -iii~~~. .- ...  .....- . .....  -...    . .  - -                      -3- -34   ---- ------  --i       N       SW      -36 -3           1W      -3       5W      -i        N
* a.,uaq beimap 23            ~~~-599    -MM    -311    -oh1  -32    -oh9    -.99    -am            -AM     -66      -133   -gm1    -425    -334    -311   -33    -21o    -141    -211    -13W           -2131    -3W     -3W      -u4.
-Emtii bu  tm.m p 4                       -        -MM     -SM    -259   -3W    -I14    -*31    -*3    -95    -930   -21               -ib      -419    -013    -51    -US    -13    -1A          -125    -5%      -ON      -43    -40        -14.
ans.                                       -       -e   4  -M   -l   -3 11    -%            -64        M      -9       -11     -        -" _1   -        -0  -61 A       -us    -M        -1       -       -0                       -         -0 w .1
411111   in   Ioun                     -tau      law    -312         , -       -3----0-----1          - -1416   -81..    -114    -203  -941  oh  34"  33  14  114  12   as9    3W        to           31 21       5        432     319       55
quld     lotuaswu                      -14    -U44         49   -49-349    -149Aw          -149 -95 -.4I             -49     I"4      Su     -64        149  -32      4.3      -64       la      no4    44        as          4    W       -.4931
"peau  14&.mtq a m                          -3* - 111    -52 -       - 1214   -131    -5211    -644    -4101    -41     -414    411    -41        -414    -413    413   -'          -523    -6,1    -0       mm      is       -0      -1        -
&V aqe i  4:1s.     Laim,-no   -out   -I.3    -*41    -3223   -lySi    -*99    -2I    -dl    -40                              41       -4.1    -42      -434    -13    -35       -M2    -lI       -3      -W       -W      -2      -2        -
whum.       it-I                                   -0      -lw     -4        I  -W            -6      -W       -4      -s       -W      -   -M           .J      -M       -11    2         -I      -a       -2      -3      -I       -26        2
1111.3f eS11UMI1W  Of kW 0*99
Ion &m  agl.                                                                                   .                       . .                      . .                      . .                        . . m.                    . 
-  ------ --       -  -     --   -I3    ~s0  aefUlabe1119Sa,i - -6.&----Sd-------V ------- ---------------- ----------.
00 0
0



SlKbi   5610.0  IUtOlt  19160193931 92 Iul  14913  nw   yils 3915,61    lw m Iti s nugs19919  amito 209010  UOIR    32*03 3410154 2014*6 365,4  2040? Zi07110  21060*    Milo 261v111
~~~~~~~~~~~~~* - Iot  Illl   9*  55    350    3q1      540     -     -   .   - o* -- -- s -  -  -    -       -       .       -      -       .       -       -      -       .                  P- - o -  -  -  -                 
ko~~~*@1*1"1w "s tr                          14L"  l4f1       1) Ivl    1ss>1 a  S 7M1 1whvb
*M 4.st    4                             53     029i   5.0      No      95    -09   4-l    W           54       6      51   -        -       -         4    224     -       -       - 
* seals wing1-s  1 IU 5-1 -24' 2---    
oil LM     ymts                     -      -       -       -       -               -4,I   -131   -25   .24        - 55      0    Iu  1    435     46       2    -71Y    415   i5)   -4         -I7    -in    -410    -455
lilt latenI pr                      -        S9   -15      I        3      -57    -2iE    -Sl   43    491    -0)4   45#8    -149    -551   -553    -            -7MY    -7N    -121   -775    -6       -0      -413    -35
Ilail Mmpt_m  tt  bilata              -         4      17      1*      4       V      14.    2d      29      33      NS      41    5        559    WIl    I        534    4"       43    464              45      315      315
manta*Im          t.                     -       -       -      -               -       -       -      -       -                       -        i1)   -       -        3      VA4    42       3       35     42               125
--^----------------a-----aot l   "a   fria aim fifS su     1  Ita real yar itsemS  tatw aill a iua  -mu "mm t             ------.
..  ....__...._. ____......................I
is Maems mam  tWalsq epemdstwern.frs Mits  4, SIat 3.
*s  aimm   lle proum  iaWrKmA$n plu.1, t66 fti10U  _mipt ad meed  rm I Y            elt s   t as tlmt, ak             _1w*, ipapei a z. as duaild ui  asou  4. Al.e 3.
Ji JM     a  nppmt UtN    s ml ai   temS         d at IM's Sesas, b*frmp  Kadmis            1 asrmlI  AN.t$ud Ip kfePUU NO 1S   elosia. All ssti   s_am e o                 If Uald m   Ias ke_a  616    e samasl cml of nsestme9
Ies NO  uKd9 else WMS Claps, hesMS l1 "    s S    PaSad Iue csuwg  by Itouits he Provide  Me  pemlr"n    h61 Salle weIl p. of Us sendt p_ mtl                                  It i mdpec tsai kW   am    m Ue  mi be
reparu  "tiu 5Flaf9K.
4# On a m       li 1 St  ct# i tes ab *t I tP Ctreln i_  Ml Cwry  ae *wet tdfd ratel alam  1a. 1Lem   ml bems a Wm twii _t  Im a               aw  eps tf  ta ddia tpd    east. lIte mld tN a  me pw d  as ielnat.
bpaimaS 1a prsapal odd at _r toop                idima  th  saseS msl  W m Wtii.
5s  kIleata SU  A    ms 64mme  1*611 evce i_ msua             el a two. kW  wince passeS.  ein O m            iii ire mmal St re1a term IV iussln   k6 Mosml t,masa kO  vo, s_ca  bfWIhtem     ettee. fs  *tgS
mtesn         lt6 tk  W melslum  *tiNt  lad       fata ilatam lkm  Sm   pilaml        2is t  iv   In 1r5 1     tt 1 i 65 t Usnfaitr. f t lam  imunt1 . t as ttep   eros4cs  IN  Winsome 'bueet tsemal a slita
rates mae a    NW tIVE    utai np t  i 2 dW  am  I" 0  mm asdtpM     iw$.
5 at [silati  a ls buss of 6A1 passs U   ats   UaSM f111111 p Atts f eiSa bimlg   y1 len*s Edti SWoaMi.
* ftm dm. 4,5db. L
St b own" is warng ciWul  at    53.3a baa        twaat   lto               e _   ot i  '161 eu ' mAt  co s VW got 1d II    I .    l lb   mai   cepW Ct l chos ba  bI Amtm   tu sSb Ia   "am
9. MiSmS mi  ewets, ati_s km     amA"i tai aUnt                01y am epitv   1  I Sills _a  be 6p idW is 5150        of nlM9  , me 51 * .5 ellin.. is R     04 ad F0fl"9.
1.1  cISaa   atia tsats "Iw pcuItensivma   a ca *iSm.
(I.
*99
O        4



'7& 1    i ),7A             lV.   z'z LM': M.1 L MA             M     Il M        MA    W4    W4    ?1?4   IWA           (3(      LII       I' I.3   "1no                                     tC      16110)1 90ilj41  wrl9
%84          too      in3      I"I     inO      Its      low      19      IVn      in1      193      IVI     19l      in       III      Its     499      M9      'I!      "1       LIIt      (       659     U                       iI46)UIS1 I 1,11,1
o 0              1101 6II    II9I    IIII    If"6    It"     It"0     lke      1 IIVI it"          . it"   6 II01         116 Il sit"      IISI    0456    Tvq-     lol       1qI    gill    itt        sp       4*4                                IPflOI.m
~~  *      1(1~~~I?  I       nS L    In       let      ILtl  Ut                  E It, I LftlEit          Pe1      lit     Ut       lit      Vpt      Sit     18        A~      I/?      "I       lot     ISO      LUis"W  blein
~~  tItI    (Vt!    ZVIS    ?Vt!   (Vt!    (III    (Vti   (VI!   'Vt!    (99!    lIVE  (VII    LW!    (Vt!    (Vt!   (391    7991    KU       619      CIt     ?AI      Ill      P1 itto  t0)ut  if?                          fil
1-4 0..      "V'     9'       99       9919     919      959     999      *t9      *9      *9       *9      9"9       999     *9       999      914      *O      "W'    *p         9      9     I"   1       Ott      "9L                      fS   nuu 13 AI  . Am3
Ut  t~~~  Cl)  El       Ut ~~~   ut      got      "I       U1      OR       oU       set      gm      pi       UW       at       sit     Ur       set      Ut.    Set       *lI       ml    691                          it 9594984  IAiUt
*t   t       O*       of      Of       of                ofA     lit       1       of      of       of       of      61       31       W1       Al       of      at       of       of       '1       Of                                  *iefinu.
&r      at        t       at       it       at      4s        t       at      e6t t                     a        it       at       a        it      ir      fit       31      at       at       At       41                                    AQIPj-
Ut  129    (29     Ut~~E    at       Ut       Ut      (29      U        Ut       U    t o(        (2      U t               Uto      Ut       7(9     III9     (9       at        It     to9      alt                                 99iI-
la  t    a  .         1       1        516      Ia      ii       t        L         1       9 11 6 1  Il I            19      II       *4       11       14      19       La       14       la      *4                                    A991-
913          W13"95                 VS   I"aS   V1   "a3 IS   IS                          Vmm S    9                   95          VSH                        W    WVS   V              aStit   at A19- 611 *WA1.5b68-
VIV     Ott      WV         S      91       91      In9      H1,       V      VS        W1      No9    919       91       Itt      91       91      91991,            No9        t     Ila      oft      a          Wai4
bit     oil      oil      Oil      lit      Oil     lit      oil      tit     oil      oil      III      off     off      oil      tit      tit     oil      U        lit    9611               to1 6,             in" 9 -on ""
sit     VII      "I~   ofI           I     o VIE  1  I       atI      VII     oIf      pi       911     91I    tof        VI       91*11 of                  911*     got      of      lIt      clog   a$t                            ""VanasmlHu mUiw
r .   ........~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 163*3.UPE
U ti          g 191  19        191     1        on      int 191   "1 19                    WI* 19*   191     1       Me       on1      on 91           owl      to1       at      (if      ice     Kg tit    t11                      199 NI3 )1655 14m
tAll    Uclf    tall    Sol    off    a"            P11    all    gm9   -61991    Ulf    off1    oil    ti                14  tll          191oi   UR 1 A  I  W       3owl    PuiL     allf    NoW    1965                                  Pi9-P
-----  ---.                          -        -       .        -        .       -        -                                                                   ,       *                          g       p                                          u
PA      91       91       46       91      Is       91       44       9        91      69       9        46      46       46               46 9                                        it-9! (  91       (61                 =MA U1SIU69            4,810118
As WhItlINg 3W IIUINIl
19 191           19  9  99   1v                    9       19   19    a              9   1    9    1 a                 9 W    a         9 a                          *Is   lot   It                             Igwl O M"" Nuqs
oft      911     91*      91*      911     911      ml       91      au*      91       911      Ott      91*     611      on1     9*       Ott      941      *        161       9      VISW              Itt?m  s  l  $   uig  W9 AAiMiq        IWA"IE3,l
-  .  -      -       -    913          ~~      ~~       ~~~-- ------        . . .......                             -     ------     -----         -   ----                        .    89                             NSq    mt
tin.iW'"V46W 611 11N1111 SWit         0    PJW0
91-,110 3  - *2335                 NW.W3M     - sIw'



WsAI low  sow           u SUIA2 I awu l twin  aiwiu 191    s sm  snm    g  wu I"M   1N4   asm 2no"   mm   mm       31161U  214  aw11   WIl 36W  3Slfl  3111
Uea&.o eo.                         IS3   NV    ta   1atti  Is     I"     ISIa  15144  IM        t  IN        1656  163   5ME   16aRk   AUl 1MM    51  SaU I5M1I         ta b   MM   tin;  tau
kr""ut a# Gelis ht sum
bu*s                               Al    21    *       so     4     No           54         1S               10 *     N s M m     we   U       3Kw   11101   K tub   s    m     m      am    age
ialmlmmms,                          to      s    go    In    i        i      uIn    we    to    i       u"            " u    u     u             is    "      i      u      i      u      in     w
Sale1 o                              23"  M    222 23232  22  22  al  3    2  3                           2  M  322     3  22 1    2    22 23 232   22 2   32|
Ida, ,                             Ul   9221 "sin   34015 l    1    17S2i  11134  194 I"   H& 1I 19541  1934  O9M4  I941, 134A   9341  I9341 194   1934   14   1934   1"4   1931  1i1l  11934.
ao Iim  assad Upt    Mpuat   cia fIW11 -ii rIIMI We tom Us    t ltalt _Waesas 4Hwt 1 uW   balt  ml_tel " Ir   st. rm
It Im  apmm  _mIm  pib  to  Wes be ptaca to 45.  of call" is   sallid 1a 140 Mvm  FI_s to he    144 I  mtC tSmO le Irmimet.
fI 1s1 ISi *1 macSmd _Wn PrMr_t tM_NO cSliM  cm uPltl umictlWm. 1b  m iIs barn Mmas -_ q_eing tapauitw61.
U ElUateg a tmD ku itiam  Ims  _p  hr ii a1 IU M  ivs b  mw  cm tab flpmctitm  Lassts mt ttlame  asth    , iccb cadi s  cascEd Isllo a,S tiuftagt tata am  tm  dimS. It ha tm  eua ls
_W    astUs mulu i   t    t amacal Mauab odd $Ms tm    term S em      f t     camcn tm,m  MSas at Umas l cs q vital tUOflitiP
S lodgelsatd aIt5 tm d le t iso  pams ualmic to SO* am            taw   i. 10    of too biou  sM  IrVSlt.
of mrkstcq cults bh_* mm mttacsi l a1.0  u1^s Vila oalm    cu..  ems de   _ i umqmt t      emic tvmss t gino Clem , nm rmes r It  sailo ada " tew b4mm ulElei a tim       a-uavy prain.
a tam pl.  te Isab  (mlls  ai. Isincar_ n spinb 14Wo     lla  liC t ad   ai, _s sastt s cmliv aaictt ql diS s14tsa , t hwtats  t mtss c mtid t. t he ascrer . bias  Med tm  else blw by tonu  aata oS
marldmc  tmo  asitald by    t tm Uarwvaq ats un tm mn, b.il.
II hius.l   amg.tct km bm    atk sntam at lit so  atPlmetmi "c&el ad lawtalw aymitmm.
V Calmelistata atus hed  m"gla m d  8-inttr so far"" PIC" am crop piutaic  ntste tlas Prsm    as ivlaq    w  to ton Wm  140 bsad _ tom t rut. ImW Ire pmrsl  cdl.. ttr tu              a hat s  he km
rwvgaut taste Sea Owned   a ted  .I0Gm prtcKi  Ira 1natqil pl,m11tems aS  nipsi   atlqKtd  , utis   biap  LiEla  reaK, mA  maccg a pUM"  rs p d 1 of    , rp tne dtlm  cmtOS.
91 &wirmi       ins to sqmemmt ma mm t wmumla all be flmed  mmi the MsS . Lain Nmt.
u4s-
I.,,
N c



* ~~                         ~ .                                     ..
-~~~~~~~~~~~i8 ;                                       WF *U1U81510452
"end tC0m IwwN - i tL & Umm
I Iawumt Ia ia          t mew _bm   fin
IWO1NM to cACar ad so 1*Sbns [lo
MMIE two                 UU1919899    19"1*920932 19"911w  I99        % lM 10 I9*911 memiw arn14 21u  WO8W nUllS 214311123941  21 41NMI 2 MMl 2MM 36*S1 2hlU$I1
1. Ug  ui
tam bIas 3stt
hamiasd Cas amS Ian  I/                   182     gm      sill  *619      fin1    182    6138    94IS   MNs    tew    t%    leg"    54    MeN    OeWN   loew    Ion   mw"    Isew     tew     iW"   s"    Isew  
bpacsaImm  is                            -NIS   -1am,  -4s    -518   -3393   -2    -2611*   -am             5381    2     -2 12     1 1   -212- -2111    -WI   *22    -21   -3                              -282    421   -Ml  12aal
I.eaa_ C_.
* EasUmq bitml     p  So                 -92   -18       - -mu52   -In    -8223   -19    -60    -2    -a               --5   1*   -213    - 22 -4   -314   -2111  -2U       -2U1    -248    -241    -2*    -2Y4     -2m      -274     -241
-1. bsoWm p  4*-                                         -       -f213   -121    -1213   -12d -l188m-0 99             4    -       -58       *      -3U     -S5  .            .        .       .       .       .       .        .
- 1dlat    4I68t_mM4
;    bi viuge S                          412    91"     1114    8Ill     418   IaJ    1243    I=         M19     149    143       1S4     13        1341 88   til   93     41*     2an     212      2       2$      221     M        225
BUm  ow o tags                           -3911     -19    -19    1251   2)    4v25  5431  41                19      16    11f5    1m41    GM         23      MU    8129    124         214    43 1P42       144N5         1445  145    1412
ia                                             -       - -                 -       -U2 ---         -2J21   -25S   -2       - -2n   -211   -233i  -32    .292   -231   -2            - -his  -2         6     -28   -2*       -281   -26
.    "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
cm flha r      ates      Is494   -9     -1 12t               I             nAs      133    353     "a    to        4hN    IhN      5581    i28    is1 I    1 1   1234    495    to"    in"1   IhN    119    464    too2    4s4
lasta faiatowm  It                       -11528   -81.2   -21    54I1   -1513    -413   -UUll   481   -IUU1   488    -13         115 -    1u11    13d    46         -U28   1355   -1333   48    '1311   -1315            -1115   -1*5
keaimo      I Ending Laass                 -3t    -2      -823   -24   -821 2U              -44    -4       -413    -IW     -4      -43    -484   -4         -1    -44    -121    .           - .       .             -       -        -
famU1I Cast C  Iatah1
bitmap 31                               -192   -1818   -1812   -843   -1223   -asS        -n    -82    -t         416    -413   -41    -421    -314    -123    -2M2    -2          -2n     -248    -248    -2n      -248    -248    -246
ladlataM  4.msas  Ii m
wsn    i Ola fadsm  Limns                   4 *n    912    Ion    I8*      ol?1  8292        "I    Ill                 2 4U             88  "n        81      8312   to       m22     2"       HI2    211      2       m 2     22      225
inses                                      -       -       -       -       -        -322   -8*1  -2381   -2111  -29   -2123   -2131   -2134   '22   -29    -2145   -2881   -23   -2884   428    -2W    -2881   -US?   -244
ku.ti Iausm is bl sag
Capt.) - bL*d"-                                     -- -  -  -   -       -        -    -          -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -        
1_gp_*1U88                             '12432   -19    -l21 4 W            44V3   .811    d       2818    38 1 93    bid6    5144     513           12    294      NU      a4l   610    2292    1144    848          *141    1149    air
--                 -    ------- ------ - -------               --- -- on Pit-i Yale. of ead  f*in Slag  16   lmmp la to  le  tora . Sasmt, Sat.  21ns S          l 1te1a   I s     -- t-----       - - ----------------------- ----
a      I
r



-    ------------------m---                                                              - ------ _
isa;, Iwo  MAD IWMS  1rnrn 1992193 rn1u   aIwfls 399519059I0191  saw    tw11111          an amvu M    im aIM    s aww zS oI/ U 234112611 ami.  a iffg UsUI  a2I/II
*bet Smwrce 44
la  Low   lawas                   -      -      -      -      -       -211  -" U210 -11  -2   -6    -m           -11   -lo"   -I3U  -mm    -w         -1    -      -       -      -      -              --
IS 0 lstaee tmlalletarn           -      -     -let  -3 233            433  -Ib      121       21 -1  -116       110     3    -i   ItU 111    f f -               - .     -      -      -      .       -
it tsow tim                         -       -      -      39    452   4141   l41         1    44      110   410    @4     494    54   230   231    19n 2        1     2Ut mu14   US    115141   MO    41l0
Si       alsooperated           re--               - tr t  d       al  ml C t  fR  *  intU                r   tu, d                t   lltS   31  t         --                                          ------ I
1oms me   epeii wre                           tedb*                                                            r Itt1                                   " 4,  1.15e  d i
U Sem  ut las pIni         ru,lm  pSr,t*w, the #15119 imp  as  spaiSi uStl mdttmseluue ml .let*   m                        , ismt its., a etei I. _e  4, Idle 5.
1* bai     apit aimble UP miue rde  alELe=  nuttq imraei  sId q She leaZ metl_ eaule  by belpm  St 1_i|sh*i teae   l aaa    iew   .mtida  iie   aSefitIntm   it
1a  mre saimi el  bad  tue  Omm t la      mm  uut   ee Is* Jie  1f liEU Im rmudn  Sm pa                         n  _-N  aIN   tO tr ge Fl ti       t pmalmeda *t as mepatad Cl  m         atm  mel h
igtte  mtail Ffl"34
U go Sea  odd be 1 este d ltbe tovep gifmess   ad wrry * larnt  rate IdiA     I2 m.e. ta  mid MO A WM  pild Of AM                    dii _Pt  a Prilagel r9eYMmt. 1Wie Md hem tm  ga ied a t rsnt.
tegaytsi  gimpe  add k am  to von  imieg lb  alulsl Wm   wmsl.
bI 11S11441IS t5,5 m  b         MU t_ t sWim  Ail mmmi ad emil   . tL et rU SWS   amat bW hen _at_W Ire Mlt    reel tm    by haat wli  tb  hedl ppyms by he *tlittle m ii                 Satdls fire. Fw amb
imm td  ami be lelntil" Isi  rain le aliel  br t                   _ ipplmmds 21 Cm  Ml In     iS am   IN    haeal. rm Memse dmemta d   fimp  rmm1e  be #gg1iA11 mt                    rUi"   admmiksoul tmlUgim
fates base bn mVW  Om *fdimnlep  Iti h  101 ad 1I% U So mAImeMes ~1111
Ut Clcla1id a tht hus  l the pant to rdea Dl d pradlts latw  lbKttag my  ines eursed mmd.
Is Frlimi  4,1ldl L
#I h ,,,M  is m U saiel m   _d  I 1.11t 5. 14 I     n IWm it ,. NlMs . dt   IN t   saest yW  of t*9I. la #w             _sw   sagalal ubaps kt#   mm ago                  OWLt ps.
U Iqesty pramame le  hm  "almeat _m te dbt   a   t asepie SI V aataam,n  a Ilastmy r MtlN*tg ri te. tIi 1f' sam at mid low  bet _   pn t nmihiams at moetw                           l ofs gatl riewmfts
aa  he lo  ue   as s    mb two   t  ly.
W no cdeiltilete titems atly srmmst aC sa atilm.
II Is"res m.puumnss me e  sa emp t ml   m  ul ntO e  all the looame _ier tie  seca_ Wiln hSmat.
'5.- a
0



1181881  01N*5 1003011 11 1033011 9 pIi,M"Ieq su tit sss       j go14   lpl8wAI39  gmuiu "4111 as 'llul   1111drs a "  l,~ip "'  -'itm   ImaAuia aowe  "oi si.ol, eq. aobroii viti .4  I,"                botir .drwgp  Tn        wtoi 
91 'VJN;IWll WIXM*1        -s W , IUS*   .gm4 uiS 013141100WS Om  POm  IUWvo off 01 P3 0050      Utin al  swi  smmt Wilia *1$0) ,uiiia*   ).SU WeP 6il  6rnt1313 ago           93 s1)5 oor     .3  -si'   PMl9~ w15p ml viT .:lop-
Ii   -                     191 IV.1 10311006  103315 an     5 wi    100251105 p.iuwro        a"511 all" 0   11018)1  ii..a W"m             19, 033#ill   sw tes30"i MOa  a,'bgtq 19ge POW   ggew ~inis;         lowui.v %PO       qipbp iv   'w'tuia    s 
lit-    911-    Ltd  11  LII  LII  LII  LII  WI-    ill  13  II  S      *       1)6      LIZ      Pt-    tIll-   lIST-   1)1           ------'-- --- ----- - ----- --- --- - -----------------------
Si1l    tiLl    IUO       141S      6 S     UT      UTL tiLloilt 15         1 gl       tou     St4      99       fS       @         ilt    Ill'    W6I-   16?    u -til--                 2        Sil-     t-    lt-                        Slim"30     N1
5(4     II s[    iLl    Jul        ML        4 l ja  a       lug    ILl1    not    fll    GPI            591     NJ       fil      31     fill      wli    i'                                        -     -        -,s9                       s ~t
*- -       - - -  -  -  --    -    U---   -- U -- - -   -------    -----  -I---i                                             -     ---  - - - - --   --  - -   -- - -  ----                        ---                          i s   u  s tu  t l s  u
cis             W     I    l     al        Il      :t       WI      go       "I       to       z9       1t      a        a        It      11       W        If      I                                                 g        ,uh;       pIsm htAh
40       IL       IL      Il       IU       t        ILL     ILl      ILL     104       WI      519      L    I N90 9199           LII      113     LUi      *5i    IO1UUSP  10Of"9                                                             M
105  L       I3       LU I6    11311            I       116    1in        3A      LI      L        1        1  IMt W                 ull    UZI    LUL                                                                             111111TRA11ul LitS IL  i S4 dltPI
IL  Li  I     U        0        S~~~            ~~ ----  - - I    S        U        *                                               -    --- .  ...   ...------------   -                    --- - -    -            t     UI'5 0
to             to-t                       to-   -to                 t -              In-  -   -   -             W-      g        mg:      fil     ol       I                  I        L        W      L          I      I StISM IS
....    ....                                    -    -  - ---    ------                                     - --                              ........       .......  . .3  ..  .                                           2   9 ~    *  h e   U
U        L       I1       01       I        IL      U        U               01 II    I                I1       01       0                I II            Wi        IW                                               I W  119  1   I !gS s    VSOSW i Uir
Ill  tu  Su  iu  Su  iu  tt  lu  tu  to(  W  119         411141    IV       In       its      91      911I    I               16 "Umf                                *  .      *. W g   * 111A1I ,ti
cm  W                                                                                                                                    I    ta      III                                        .4m    4 -IUNW19  WI  i   a  Sf a*v 
UgW~~~~1 iN- iU~~~~~~ 6in  *10  uuss=lks
anW    W maim   vows" imil-i



tvea cl Qpimlar   3       ~l  - tI L a immt
kismic bdeaps If
*Shb Esrmpoimao smiurn   mi an tsmmtums Is
59138""a 1 11110113tfla541 3  tI   "am83   MM1913215313  13181                        "OM"R813383" 1I35991112921195 WMONM  I961391519189 1 AMAI  MM1919 9911MM4826961323311
Dtmeauau EwalMumI 2               341    1113    O5      lots     a        IS    li      23 as l   1       a      11      n                                                             -
trngimhto  epamt                .              s isa              111  1i           8-          -          1- 
irse. auaep.EP5 wMi
mats. lm l$ admaowna              a9     11       a3     id2      a2    h        Sol      I      U      35      30       W0     lb      t5       19     SM      SM     AW       SM           M  1       tAl    3t       UM      161
Wisn lcaolw- 11i,. 6kh              ..  .-.                           3  U       IMIu    ti       36     Ini    a11       is      2         -                    in .1.8                    .           .       .        35      3D2
MitlmmaqMigtSumUi.  3  293    DI    hi,    Iii  3     Ni    he        815    813       hI    -         -       F-                  -      -                    -           -'      --' -
125  ill    919    295    ill  I    211    55  lii 1421 62      3       235     813      9      54     29      SM      33so           ml    wi        Ii      993
ftw.rAcatCeaugca3                                                -                       -       - ii Ut   n91AM d        29 1         29   i      4 IDS         OR       In      6      All      in     9n     in       so       49
leiui 1~~8d  lasts  a  sin    it    325    isis    em       mi~   aI.    iii    er           to      la     la       ln   a l a         l a     to   t      In      go      lIn     to      In)     la      I4n
IwN sqMH     Idleta            a                                                   1      36       1      2        21     ii       35             41     4a        4      41      a1      9       9       a1      9       45      a
8i-haai  .     -               -       -                213   s~~~~~~~~~~-in ii n 9      3      Siti   139go532    1013    liiii -1 184 s6Ii  13 844    -lid    88416   8846   amka    at.i  ----u-
Igat Apseaa.q Late                .      .         .                               &i ht s.  .                    m       a     am      sas    ass1   ins    OMn        aa      ma    I31        m      is.    sW    am         lAM
k8,sthtiu              a~~~ 124551314   3253128131 s5   IM325932M1284128312212  2222  2212 211222212 212 2212   22)2
rtoo. frsmmuiqtw owme Im oajaMal Q                                                       -       -          1          19 a        9 so   IS   It? ml                    in   mi   no   u     a    as   is   us
idui st uetbam 6a              8                                                3      253    2is  us4us   I mu  s   lbs   us   i                                us4584o3l    us H                       us*58Ms4  511  lbs
heat Imas                               -       -                                s       me     sss    -230    is.i   isa6   se 2R               29     245     212     26      23ii1           251     li      23         i    M
gtktius                           a      m      -ae -91 -mi-I -ul -91                            -i     -li      -*         i    43      w        m      hS      ihi    3221    13      em      am      am      mm       so
..... . ._...__... .                                                         ......aetiaa                                   3 ............ itn   OdIss  10-----    -----
.tac ase    imml  8wit SW14 m u amh  si85.  5.3 41 I             WI f auams    salt ye, Inisatis #smald owe i" M    ium  i       tv ib   dhp m e     am M.Ioa s,  itms I, tluie   "ie i E  u l l pietwe. rowed wat
a..e Lost O6M  Ousatb    ad  MM plait 111 6laMIAsa  gUSl. fw Cusetrts  leal cut, asbmasriats tau is, a iANN sm83mg  tart. S   ber gmi  41Mb as lt lo "a thi  the s tia  mabamp  atie 8w aitt p nt eat.-
e&e,ba 11ttfbt4). obvisq, Ise a6zowpt. Wusakter  hpiaab     w  to.1 mms a 's'.ap machasp matteso or"t  gan amNld. It be. hm  imiamhd that me 41mb. "tm ibas                  te anm low 5a    3 3    slitiac rat ae by 293 tom0
t 1a"No3, In3m lb ilium. aso -a1 istt14 MUM          83 mIts   e   baI ml flhb.1bs. Its Samsta.coiuasg 5.all esw  kisn ba. km  NMu La cinsr  coas  ad Wealth usp sue  am cutest 111  md. ralsis ao cdastak I543165a.H I
2e.aims5t cuts fw  Its aIdM churning as ptmpalaes. fill a91St, the  asa lisepmp tabmiwhcle lapasse, lilit) aasagss  asd aamm tes ia  des isq Da31              op im Wm t pr   am,  isvi ala tah  Mitiasc  adS was  toaks.
It MIbaCAm tokMiaq ans ba'. e muse cetalm  at 1*5 .1 stisttio gqaptam  ofa mwatamg cuts lo taripe Ws F3IU3O to PuaSie. 
40 Mtail Weo ful4l MM  MM3 irtm nsfl paaKI  ssiS to a M. atl arat.gcl t iSe  rnadsietsatsaq resmIf" tin  531de of csdie  MA mase. bair aM  gmplattsi as wrnidow" ad 11rh stm claes 1"imitswm.. Im
1a532/3   M    JIM cpitesua dai "at dit.al esagmait, gaim     bamai, s ai lilacS iosbuipm aiMsb. 35to ee   ol ci aiud cadm bair but No asKcsd  IS UtaStaOIa  IStatiabaits    CamL
5' Op to  T O 13 m1iaas.s"ad M ei magessa aumim 131tCli Catst of Colins Iraa.sp, ieamsinac  WAi bamimas if "qW.t. FnFIP iM3'  smite ttasmpu  casts bMo wam iitsi  tse li biM&ti stoma, as prnWjsci to items,
4,q w of cell53 (t'iaiwe ,ca.".1tcs3te! Ca Otata .Iof a08 e.-LSM pute.
61 01ml the ldlit Saaali CalSm0  blimlSt   m.i        as,a    .  escmm.*:*                                                       ;..aOlt tg,tKIifl .   .,t lt"-  11 s ty .       tera'do.   0,W  tit4ijoaS 643.5 Wastes lUits', ...



IIIOIKJ O M   wPJ P#-1 JP   * 1i '* NMs. Ml  1I.Nf wdui    p:mine   smn. itumqlpssw i                        vow: intoal  Vs u.ma'gnumi, Wm    n   spa   1  flu as# Siloam  pm  It") simm  fire all oes
.83eigstP3  on    oniw     PMI#de  is ,umsmaw au n  pm  ausium   ofs lonseAU  u.jmku  9 pm  I "awi   la                      o  peit"o; mails ;m1usjwM   "St psm  gms sam  sliem"  -w  SuM' ,smmwo  g,swqg
449  9s  1191    1191    1194    PSI    911  ff91    919  Iii  99  9*g  141  Ill  35-    9998-- ------- -- ----- --------- .-. .                                              9.3.3...................
-     ...... ---  ------ ---- ---- ----            -------  -                    ----------- .    I           .e  -op         . " 3   ---------------        -    -    - -.------------                           -  ---- -------      ----
.....  .....  .1                          . .31 . .J .. ...   ....                      ..I  *. .....  ..                                                         ..  ....                        -         .     ,,uahmnu
9on     "to  tVol    tini        ";    Vitt    1111    vot    two9         fill    9131   IIII   119        No9    iff      a1          -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -it
VA"j Wisam a 
41-    0        at       Ii      VI      91a1                     3        3        z      u          91 91 as                                          -                                                        siowgo lS4,ium3V2f
lit     tf       i       tf tl    lilt    li   l    t1    M3               991i    "If    %III    91A       No      tif    39                                                             -       -
19---  ----              1        9       9       1       1 -i-                       ---- -----  -- -  --3---  -- ..   ...                                                               .       -         .,~s,ah w
911     91      a1      a1       a3      a3        3      a1      a3      aL        i      a1       931     9       9       U          -       -                                         -vkiiqPi
gl      l-3i             0-    ll-    li-         0- 91  1 9- 91        -9     li-    gi-    13-    l1-             111      53         -        -                       -                -                         SWS        1 w  mobIh
I                  tto~~L   1f      9       S6        6      S       on       46      91      46       1t-     III    91        4I              Ml
iL   l          of      I        I       i       of1      011I  ii         I-      It      Iii     4t       LI      931                                                                                      itW3kl              i
RI      ol9    a9                        a .              a.of -911-    al                          ii1     AN       -       Mll-                                .       .       .                -         .    9U     *t5B M
.....  ...1                      1                1        9      1         9       1       1              5       41       91.  .  .   .   ......gUpmU19
-  .  -  .  -  .   .       .        .       .            3        9~~~~~~~~~~~~~   41  19  5~~i       .                        .       .        .       .        -                     IlUn s3IUivi1ta
ut                                                         us                                                                                          tmbwaq woa mulvq   l
* 3a~~~~~ WIWIS) HUmid~~~TIN    iis
tonmaoloK  t I      W6111&MIwtig  I& I qml  aut    tolt6i               95-191 3 11u 5-  3l )35  I       1315iu     IA Iawio                i   m        iglmlf&i                  i&



$511    Plit   6IIIi lls   Kit   Stf          w          i      i      i      ill P1U 551 lia ISS  tSt ia lt   pit5   Sit   fill   PImi    1559   tSP    56    loi    *i    ta"    fell           W) hopm  Ipi
a,      sa      am     sa      a       a      a       aw    sw     sw      as      a      saw    aiw     aw    sa m     a I"    s    9659 In   e    ia 4        Iu tIMU
fit     tic    ta  t  a       ta  tics   tic    ua          tat    tat    tat    sit    ta    uas       t u s  it    tit   tit    tic    in         lat    lat    LW       RI                      h saft      ill
ga      a      es      g       a      It     a      et      sa      a      ga     ai     e       at     u      as      a      a       a      it     s   a          esa    e
iS      55      15     a5     I&      55     I&    IS       a5     a5      a5     55      a1     15     55      15    IS      I       a5     5       a5     a5    aS       a5 
setlit lgis  st                   sq     sqC  lt 19 Ett    se         sqt   lit    II        111    It    le       WI    l111    51%    lIt    55      se      ont    gsot..iw
as      as      as     II     as      as     as      as         a s1    Ill    lb         15     a5     A5      a      It     15       II    9 15    5 5    a5     55      55      GI
(I,.    I a lt    a      s      n  as 1  n   a      ant    an      ag    ant    an       us      an     i at    me    atc    HC    ElI    an        an      a ut   mt 161*W   t
(It      n     Int    an      du      cm     at    at    an        at      In     lit      n     an     an    an       at    at    at    sin    in          In    an      NI       Am  - NUWU"Ie WiWlUig.
a     Ul siI -  eipw
egg 401s   eggs   Sill   all   us;1   all   uts  5all   SilI   535    Sell   oilt   *IIt            Ul    Sao II    ill   aI       I      itSll ogeSi u   ll   Sui    WII 1WJ  S69IA
SIt     St     pg      pg     us    pg       us       a a            sagus        es     aw      u      us    as    et    Is         pg      us    as    pg        us    aU                             lIi
INK    U    IS   U    IS   3    U    it   "a  *11   u    it  it i                                                          i t   on   on   on                      us   WA                 3s10* iuu
..... ....   .          .      -       .      .       -      .      .       .      -      .       *.                    .      -       .      .      .       .      .      -htmes
"I    a         f*41                       44      4                      0I    W  -  -                   t  ftIW                   "I -  -   MU  -  -       .              -                          h9ow "3s0As
an en      si      si     ai      as    an      a        a     an      n      en     si      ai     an     en     en      si     V.t    an      en     an      en     ai        e35gUintu   *.85i51i
rng ts uwtim  go mm"61
I SIPS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~smbw  I6*
01440  6- 532J5 UtNefli  D' ~ ~          ~           ~           ~          ~          limou



_4
top 4 an a
*ea," alow  ,lo    mSia aga   1912013 a99ww   MMu  so"ie  mini twns IA   I 199910 noonh  UIGIU 3921   MullU NIGIS 31619  UWhl 3191W                              M   361492991  1114
~~.i... W4,5a                h21~M     95W    lIla    521   13 MM    m    ui 0115 "Si      14   014   014i   014  4114   01a  94  i    0914   114   b-914   019   14  i    1914   914   9914    9914
a51    2Wo    JIf     541     ae    A41    *5       W      WI    WI    We    91    W0    9W             WI    "I      9W      W       9111    9W     9W1    WI    9          tot
lael of.8a                              32       2     33      32     33      32     2       32     33    32       3      2        2      2      3      32     32      212    33       6      32     32      212     -..z
ealal laweess                         11%     n"    noa   pall   1519   19*   all?   3141   WIG    WIG    "o    WIG    wo                i       w      I04           WIGH"H i   WI1 G 1111     Wu I   993 nu 4     914"o
I. NIseepeeat cuts for cootma t PeK hlul sirs do3k baa  Ma    t hem crauiwel bue. le  caste of ispets, lnlptdir  am  ldbw  lv wl call"m law   lees  aclle  in opertafi ft"sditweas mow flat. Ioastesac  Lasts.
is wags ormwrnea baa ber caa1w0alp air Mw OAill nomidtioea
Ssi stauedl a tea bani a lavs P5W n   tiesaui paKk           Pp  ad I, JUL.
4* Lalcal  rn tma ls   al  StS mi pWutew    tea.O  a brew  PON  If ta 4   n te W        a lacinKg [diSm 2WSt.I
5*  orketaqi casts bam  bmr edstaae at U1 di tea sls *do d cOla. DIOSs dlaN  SIN Uec          IOtram gn  pUbftIt. CaOs WM  eam.      na Orem edlm  Metas las bm  cdlcalata a  Mea lass of se-luws  paces.
II tof hlaus laNai below rows bmsuanm arm   ill gm  that bea Salts dbeed cua.i la ssile  adi ctalk              w s    orta. awte asgcts mudl lam  toe iaacas. bewau    udd tIn a"m be blow l ISa amsmot of
owhet s, Mn cd1 KtOi I UK #lF maple ii WS FNpMu*ielst.
II Poedsacoat irnla una havs bmr estasat  d at  dI   dpwr01q sgpallta  mIad aspaaste   casls 4w milli" anlarna. eqaestm etc.
11 Calcdlatea a Is Otbout of astiasa mactgWp Al Inqats  racm  ml crop prselcts" n  tlaaa gos"e    s prstla  liorie Papw  to lb   a       tes  IdseSal Cdellas Iej. sKm  lees prussua cIles 1w elkWows ls eas
*wuast  biks" UhH hsU   es  upeekWl gdi   I   I n is l ms m   ts, plutaHim  ml ape1i plasip mW  me bKwl Inks bect. US mumsl a procass, HUp 0     141 W  tu Itl clam   tla.l
I# it In bu        * be  assi t  list ma esa two  lliarn so"  ull to sasama. ipdas, oflsiNis, own  mas ra m  arnstusts.



..       - . -*..... ----.... .  --------to-----P           91  SM-           _ '3 J   13        6    U PSt 66   1       e  s urq u11 Of W      I  Wi %       *   1         -*-I
.136     we      mel  ige         Un    asic    wUI  5966    64ul-  6UI-   W6    SIU III    t1           PSg al.off.1 - tU  n  i3l-   PIt- UU6- 5t6- 21 go-                           WI       Mu-
. .                                                              .                                                   .    .    .                .        ,                      ,               .n , gsm~me. ,  .     . . . ie|Z  *  lts
hm s 66 IUimim  363s83
Sl't~~~~l            011 M2 Mg t,    nitTt                   W       M               6"      to      GP      u       Sp      tit     1"'   ?Al       ml'   pi    U;          W       2t1                    "S         bon s *e  of
91'.    96Z-    91t-    99-   99-   99-   w9-              '- U     -   t- S-        -    Ut-    1-   16-   9t9-   99-              -    4l-   4996-  Al-   699- UU-   9-  3W-                                           61662318
-  -  -  -  -      -    616-    699-   199-   199-    6W-   199-   199-   999.   191-~~~~~~~S   19-   $499-   1931-   WI.  91611-  695-  1W-  9W-                          am Il 51iII  IS  WelsW
599 W-          Ul-      W      ji9-   59-   91-   Ra1-    969-            -      9        -            mo9-   t99-  t I-  5W   Ul-   59    59          Wp-    W$-   4.                        id we        " _b
*191    ml   toll*  1144   F    F             -    tt                    -,F Su  M  Gm  F w  of waspalli "Jo 532 .mew
itt      41      319     S       69        e     *      _s       si'  _*         99      66   ^111    94         91      05-      _-    951-   tt6    lM         5136   t33   ll         1116                        *WCI tSW "162W " 
I!             111 ut    9      91 m     9 S    Ut t    SI      99      P9      (69     95      12S    m1      SUl    91        94      643.   9-    Is-   399-   513-   6391-  5915    1116-                              U36 63431621
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ...... _
m  to 3      NW Om9 1#111
'i       19Ut        i      - on  lJt    1       *1       -t   3"        t-   ml         t-s   Stt    96           ,    6        IU-    tit-    to-    m1-   ti-   ttR-  5sn-   m-                                  WWI 6  3J    mm
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .        .      .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .  .~~~~~~t "I_St wafeZ1 
*-       '*       93-    991-  IU3- 9t- t3u- t9l- "           t     -      tC- it   -    Ul- VS     -    tef    1 US-    We-   S-    lis-    tI-  (Sl-   U6-  56-  PU-   369-                                 Wt 1      I -n     Sil.
*U-        0FZ-  W.,  WU -  U-  t-  S t-   k-  Stg-  *t-  Ut-  nF11  tlS   06  Ur  W-  W -  V4   sm-  StRU  mt-  Wt                                                                                            to 1kjA on*a4 8t
*46-    *6tl-   Wtl-   94l-  sIl-   516-   9S3-  91-  Itl-   9t51-    416-                 1-  9116-  9116-   941-  41I-   3161-  0191-  *181-  91tt-  9196-  9111-    111-  55l-                                       It 3    8
1A      MI    Mi    Mi   01   4                    1   40        M      4N         i"      1   (01    M1  4M            U1    Mi   101    IW            OK      bit      m     n M"                       WWI tSS 1  1 let) e
,w, .,wsusia amass 162
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .. ...... .....__
........ ..........__ .........._____, .................,,,._,,,,,,,__,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ......................................... ....... ....-------------. ....... ....... ....... ....... .. ...
~~~~~~~~~. .......... ._!*w   t 
s189-t so1 w   _aowo    _*1so     _8
t  "  1 *4 "1 w _1" tSZ 1@ *1"1"lift    IM*1
I"*- IN" MOWN am  lawn t
'-                                                     _ t  tnt ~~~~~~~~3666656- )1_  66561) I1S'4
wi.tq t . ww  use   Isus-we



a 4
top  a,
isim a                                         .      .  .    . .   ._._ ..    ........ ....._... .    ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    _ _     .    _ _    . . . . ...     ...........  .....  __._._.._....._. ..__..............
- twas$ ftzstl  to                      - ,b             -     kds             .                   .          .       ..  .                      .       .                   .       .       .       .      .       .        .
be5 L54D                               US        9    03      lb      VA       10111    49    21      In      1       S1    -         Ii   -       2141    n4      .       .       .         .
-  at Isiti  40
t,o,o hepp s                                -       -                        W      131    23    -1       -4      436   -4k      -I    4U    4             2 -l -a   - S l   -1 1 4 4 2 -W 4    -h t -171        li      -40 S
let) lMst   laps1 411   43                                          -19    -V4    -61    -1  4        5    411141    411     -141             - S - N I111111  -01          -M 9 1 1             -321    - -  -9    '03   -S3
l.aaib tius* iw IN  ht,ud                       4      la      a       11      8      log    30      219    311      US      get    M3      594    WIi     59      134     1       41    940     461    430        M1       III
991 F0 elm  I, t                                                -       -                      -       - -  -  -       -    U     1    -       111    -       -        le^   214    *U7290    310               1     .d2     d - 1-
........... .......  ____ ...... . _._.___--frest  alm t                           l   11 1w  Fia m uap tseIp IN  he real tus. l.1      ttat  91 I. hlals -Ii) tiessa-- -------- ----------------------
........... ......... ....... ....... __ ..... _z..... ___ ............... _._
is he_me aims spordamp  _stwuel Ira bAn    4,1 l9.                                                                                                                                                                                              I
II eam     a UKs Prou       pSmatas  pei,  1999921101   hel   Si eapoclal raplalmis of adaq walt eup. apmt det.. n ihlea   to ben 4, 1*1e S.
3 hals rapa ut uSalen Vi tata   eat  90 I 'lS "salhes hurmaps Suia        le  ruto                     lp    ttw W   bywlape   ds  91 IuSie  All sl9tq lO    e barm   aatSi  be K. 1a               C almeKil esta  esastIl
I1. we S,uell aSS41 uM  WPS,  aWdMat lea  m                s *laP     Si Iadm  chwrde kV I4*1W  or grami    km      twat        lk  a   wer  eSp.   t91    mae       easm  itis a* 51914w that mn h p    *etm      ale ef
reered  Olit to9w3wn.
4, bInSen mld It eaWnld 1 to ks  Nrap g              Srr SSin a Sd c   asuisr r  rn. 5411 a   1 1 p.s  Less amli   w.Fte o  Wase pena  of ri.  him VMS -  PtmSaI reialaa. hue "Wle 0b  aIa  wid. a    latnt.
t payn  af yessueapl r;A  to aw   to pwu s mamissSM ti  ated prus wild.
It 9l9lst the Mal*ruir oells Saw  _wi     as is       ml Si real turn. bIt Wyatt Papa$am ak    esu_ti ow  "Owll to rni ha,e Ip iucmta k M mAel P6;*tl 5, the ap1lgits a119ti  tlKtus. I#s  60aIs
imdatl Mt the fatlmsg sutiZsi   lad fAt, d W               at ldles  am pitti 21  fw  111F1   Ro I1  r            11 tSI Ir I tlutelt fr.  hIs  r"ma      is B  1seip rurKlfes  1 to ilIso    sihuiIsentient   10m6llalim
frt    fe ba m Oe  mel o  .w lauinta     n    1t?w  si   1   ais uvirstwo    ea.s.
0'  Caftalea l nIh  halS 9  th  pisest h"  r t     1a 1 U   profits aIte bbahq  Al  slesn Carll  twasg.
It ifrs baa 4,1a1b1 L
U1 A  Bele m lo awuhig  epll  oAn1 *1. 1*  Is hras owned  so Nu's bowl Ow tie (avsi Vs  of r r11 W f. lb fwlthr euhsag csplal claps ba  km  aw,  Sw IV mdis                            t "wvs.
91 atmlet  a  sawasnhas. It sn he  _s n        tl5k sataal apl  d I I olia, amal he prstb   as n"1 m6m, S          i  "P9191. .  hD 90.1 ulli  is 1911919  S   1111,1192.
III In cadlctala    tl Nts  I  s  "nil  uathum  as uo ad it



a. s
........ ~ ~        ~         ~          ~         .....       ... .....                                                                                               .    ........ ..
et.e of lke                          em     mi   %a  laid  as            Is  asas2  i1e0  lab   am   mm            Im    ISM    1a     Is  1a        Is   1as  1se   Iss   1iN    16111s  1se   asme
iurnsqa of Colieff ad Wmb
Grmr                     X                  "       I    st         so   so     m         1S m          _          of    WA      w         1"       " IM     M          lZ M      IM      M    tb     lo
kit ae 1 autoe   aw    e   111  aw is                                               la       a mis   m    m   9m  "I                               am                 s   m    m   m    I Nm  No
gasia  W                             3 3232 2 I2                          2  2W  2W   3 22   252 S2                      2 5            2 isa   3222  23 2   322                        2 21 2   252
ofte1 b _                            UlS   *177 1n no In             IS 11S   17S   U} 11134l         MMUW   S  1 914 U lt U      U19)     "So    Ul4    1    193      I""    rZ4     M06  USi      M4    19146
........... --------------_                   .  _. .. . .   ____ .... . ...................._.__........ _ .. ..... ....... _
i. ktas a e.timmtad CatW a,lau f. Fslsul  -II F99"21R a ris 1t  5tal Iepubel s t is              tsik e     Cols ivitL
2, hae Orono de _pmO In to kill  1k slsl    to 4t e d Codei l  s It    lled i  ite bwbie hua_ toIlS 1150 U1  IocS Coil.. hFulKt.
10 bly SU of  Sted OWNa pO   at  btrn  iKm         Id 8 cital epetda'nw. 1k rImee    ba km cuaibari aba _  _tallt etpldtan.
41 fdieettd n  1a e lmea. of MI s IAt l 17F ION  uS five yew  cties pactm. Ws attno o ts 1   autac.. *uh counated to ad 8Inn, ad tIvdtesg cut,s b    km  at_d. It ha km  _ln_ that
qwkm Ctse eltiadwi tlidtel mumeto add hulm   iS reel tnau tires casocateve Iwot  Sl i ly 1 i q  math MIb fS .L
St CalcfAited alS St 11 1    e .1  ld  a MA  lst ' ad ORd St  tht rbal  PAWS  tal  WA Ol fk ilt cS   tem h  tact.
U1 mvletmqt cts kwt k    noulaaeal at d lS 1t  ud   via of t.#le.  tnb ieet authh trampart uapdtwon ad*1m  ke, at rwtn  kma ca     win kmve bmes ullaIdd a ta   brs of t-fatur paices.
to too pianS laSo   es,l irimars 'asa m  wopu  n via  Wi that tie l.tlt  bald caiim lin         e cala  ats  aintain cotis mb  4 a   be k oeemi.              owm d tme   am be t o    by    m a_t uf
MNkotee meM coiC1ed f by    for wtt lq ad t  ke tiiilmteatdy.
Its "tCtauel cu ins ,e  km  aetmeatad a 3601ietlel ds      aptt ad aelee  apdatawt.
It Calntlated ail tbo   00 otieted rn0-dat  VA  qetl snt          uat   P$ m  ulSeetti t piedn 1i bal  PSW I 1k t M  1G   Saud tCaK        l PauS . Ieue ttn pcti   silin ht isa   wows bst bse
lenant aIs1g Met bUt sPtut  coMa psadwaM f1tt iutldes ilet-as adS apocted platlep _W  thb e Samd Cils Priat, ad asmew 1a prouas chp of   5 ta th  d dcle  cilla.
0Inaesed  Smp S     a MUsM* 0d    iMab              net ml k1Med  __I 1kW te K      ilt. PsrIl.



.'     M          4    tUSL  Z   MI1   M11    tWi    SIl nb MU           M    Il M   IVI    MbL     MO   tWA   jM4    14    Ire    l53    tl~9   ffM~  NO.    MU(    OM9                                    312   11i811
lil   t o85     1w    Int      11w    III    I")    I"w    1.    in.          ;.      its    tIV      IN.    INe     inc    ouc    ons    tic    nsa    ciii   IIS          518     W&9 
Its    Isi     In      in      its    lit      Et    ait    In         in     in      s:s    In       asf    in      lit    got    fic       ami    lit    841      ofI   HlI    Ill98@OU
409   ivii   m1i    lis.    awl   lot   loss   too             "k no          too    tosol ,i S        MlW     a      W      ? 131tl to  41    89    K9?    *8      Lt    lit    PC                           ktmuni4 4 tool
1119    *91    1199    1111    *9      1110    *9      989    *9    1*9       990    *9       on      *9      I19    *9O    *9       sit    go       It    *9       S9    bit    IN                             .11mMl 3f is)
W3 ssst 3U. LAawI
gm   a    at EL                am   gm 31              of   of EL             Di EL   EL   EL   EL   EL                      cm EL   EL   EL                "i EL           VW   of139                      to 89N4,Il)#
it.  al,  m m    inma   a.  to,  to   1a  S   iLt  m   m    U  39   a.  in  lit  in    mmI   m   a.gid
8       8      8     a8      8      a8      a8      8      4      L8      8     8      a8      L8      ll             14      8      8    a       (8      8      Lb      4                               A
WI  II      N      55      Sf1    ml    Si    ml9    *9            *9     gm      off    cm1      *9      a9     am      gmI    *9       off             cm  ita                ut    sbiu  
tII it      Dui    fit    off      *5      55 Ott     lit         115 H I. Ol    tit    Olt    oil       98U    its    Hii      off    fit    oi    959    39         LE      89       am  - IUU"iU  Iff   61884
U8,) Il8
of119       19     Di    at19It                                   GU     of 191 W   9*1 11 VI9     11    VL     Il      a9     1911  Pt        of    191       a      110l   ciitiiM                                  wp3l
SIqI    mci    mc01   IMc       mc1   ff98      501   Ni    KU M         ci   ff49   1 9       f01   ff98    OM8    OM       ff91    698    8580    OM9      MI8   OM       ff9     fill                59 e        I wuSSI3eWU
......            ... . ...--. - -                                      -- -......-......--                                                .       .
'ol    "I    WI8   ff1         KI    NO9    f8         851    981    95       NO    911    4118    Oitltl8          V       tit    WI    tI         RIi    lip    KS       inl    84                   i  awelm            l
%Illt     i 4 11 885   Si88   Off   18*    WiI    UlI    PR9     OM9           Wl   118l    Wil   1881    11*   38H    1915    f          119U         ml    uil   8185    818     1138                             8'I-.e
-....  ..                                                               .           . ...  .......f                                                3        8       8      59      884
Olt    Olt    Olt    PC        Sit    Of        8t    981    (At    St1    91    Olt    cit    Olt    Ci             $tt    Mt    ofl                               St      In      In?                    iIowhil wU"I am
98  01     as      do      98              0       04      01    i1'      *6      01      0       01      0 0    01      0       01         -      .8           5t      981    5483e                       w-a"la
19  19  0  19  0       19      19      19      59~ ~~~       ~ 9  19  19       9      St      19     19      19      9                              is      IN-83   898ot5VWg UA                  lgsqM       S"In
f41     4911    ilL    Kg    ff1       Ni    f1        ac      f1t ofm                        NOl   act      Ni    NI   1 a1(         1      .9     89    iS        *9      an5    5ffg        ""a"89  -w jusqsq  IN84PS3
-            .       .                      .       .                              -       .       .      .                               -   on,                      souinboai   010181i4
.....   . .....             .                                                   .    .                              .. . ..........   .... .....  .8 .       V      U      *         8I  'bGUW   I
1141981  1139  8919891*11    LI9ci "OR39W199921M1991019813189180991*5881 WWIW *1138 "m l8 11838881189888I 981188  Ulna8  WiUi 8419881WWI39mm9Mimi3
.-..~~~~~~~~........--  -    -   -.---------------
6* 91pu    so  8 PM  1515as2        in 
o 1 4ki                                      SONN4~~~~~~~1 33OWU   USISPW  311111896  31 1101'6* 00189
~~ 896 de~                           11111119w  caiitIbg hupa   ~~ pila', cuau(84
3 *519 ~ ~           ~            ~            ~            ~            m



. .....  --.-.-.a---m                                                               in--.- -.."---A---l-   5on)  1N    3 4          ol9  on I 9   M a@l ton q  4 A @W .W....S.I                              . ....  .. . ...........
V.19    o1i    lilt    "it    9n         nu      *19    *9    9           9       tIl Ze  Sit    oil    wiC   t            e tm     a9     so      C1  111c           tin   Il-         - SKI-                              5 a1a
ofqw   stpi -  ifid
w'-    *S9z-   591-   99-   39-   "9-   t19-   599-   Ou-    m9                  tZ- m-     ?-  lULt-u- ita-   6-  611-   to-   t1                  t-                                                                             9 -  -  " -  *.
vt      itt    Iu       BR     tit      lic     AK       tit  m          C" m     WS      99              IC      UV    O R59  9   f9     IW      ?6        11 ll                          U *it SW"   1n*9Ihl AIl &1I!
1 11 1-1 p P1|11|1ip
9)t     911-    99?-    *U-    91-    91-    19-    nt-    U-    Ut-    Ut-    ILl-    n9-   tlI-    SM-   9F-   tS-   U56-    6el-  WUI-   Sil-   89-                                 l-   tl-                             of dIhtnl*
hl1nq 9 P19 111"l|
-   -           -       -        -       -       -    Il-  m- q.    gg..               m-~.     nF     t- c.     g.      t. F~          m-1- c'ggm    mgl-  "n-           m-Z.   m-   BIG-                  -Ism  hip ,            _ Igo"
%!t1-   cite- CiNe-  lii-   tiff-  IV*    oftl-  Clts-   959-   aw    Wcll- Clit-  Uitl-  Wit- Ul-   SKI-   61-  Gill-   Se-   I5-   9111-    =-   VW    U*31-                                                      i  inA 5 q   it)n
9""1   0605I   NNI   91011   MSI   5"1   611   91l   101   uS                         "l  Not  100 1        1   91661 14l   51 W161I  UN       ll Slog119 t11 StI                         01t               l gt m  na tpa69 nil "0 1 
9161W 151* 9192 '11
Ito  tu   iw   sn  I*M   n    tm                           W   em   m"               m   flu  wIt  i  go   - t UC au   Mr  nu  tUt  am1 - em- II-                                                                       "u l name
9"t-   15t-   *09-   9,9-   5w9  -           9-   t9-   11-  19-    91-   l-   911-   ila-   tUt-   LU-  - -   1t-   tWe-   m.-                               -        -       -       - .       .s "n
tn,u e          Not1   9*         tw1     61     *tu  t919       AIl  t16    t1t         Om t l           iu      mm     tWt    UU9    Sl    V1            tf      SKI    sitel-   UN-  N t-              u-l sat" anu
........  .....    ..    -        __           -_  -   -  ----    ----                                __     _  _      -     -_ -  - -_ ----     ----    ----_                                     _--- --
%tt     ta      in       Kg      tit     tlit    GU      l1t      U1       lt    site    49 1   S01    *1         6a9      We   oaf    (Ill    1191    5595    lilt   till    56            no                            S n"Al "if
$6 WU     9  miwlilt -
-       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -    WIt- 1ti-   SW           Ill-    SW-   UiC-    1UI-  SIl-   till-   llt-   tit-   UlO-   1-                   -                       to di j1A      1 -
"E.-   91-    9*K-    991        91I-    9*      91-    19z-    1-    1t-    9*1-    519-   J91- *tt-    we1                6-    t- n9- t 15-   WFi-   Slt-   WI-   5111-  15n-                                  it I6iu        hms,ul -
nn9?-   119?-   119?-   19-   Un-   11-   u9-   Ie-   19-   Ui-   1S-   lit?-   l-    UW-   UV-   UV-   US-   91* -   dift-  t11-  CSl-   90-   SIt-   16t-                                                                '1  unP13i
*&OO    9481   9199          11 101 10   10      919    919 1 969 951    9155    9481   11   10                   961     11    WI    SIt S    LIES    611*    S        tS  t19    9(91    619                   11 88 0nlwP1 t91  I3|
... . . _____ _ ____ _ _ . _ _ ___ .......................................................... . . _...... ......
...  !" 1 *' w""' @" .......~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.........
011 sba_ w w   l p*l "1|"         ~           ~            ~           ~           ~          111W Wi 
lIStIlt 511195  &el19  991*991            "M 0199? 9119t51595   "SISSC1915610195  19ew? 41S10601195l 91111411 *396119X1111 WHO  mf111111  16111011 WI,1  11616NMI "ml5  "ml9  mm161
g te t zl^4                                            "1   "~~~~~~~~~~599. W _t 1319u) 33*8 t
IN I                                                       MU~~~~~~~~~~~~i Sn"  we10 inu 994114 69 i 933119
9 @101
411011
----  t_Uln -   _ UI"W I"  -weJ4
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .    ._ ..  .  ..  .                                               - - - - -
W-14P1 v - uIN MOM Rif" - lisp



top I of a
MIN a`1111111 urns nrnew  turMn at1szis   1 tw I"W  mm   i "kmi  mmwe   mmw arnie  mmw   mmi  mme nms  main Uauts   sm mm asse ,mw mWI0 augus
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _. .. .  _.._.. _.._.._._._....
-tpat.                                              .     .      .     .      .     .     .      .     .      ..U                . -  -  -  -  -           -     - .      .     .      .
*nLmi                            N  SW      SJ  t   **                 ***** .                                                   .     .      .     .      .       .    .     .
- bi bare *1
..$ at    -t,               -.      -     -     -      -     -ss  n4t   -mm   -MM  -11  -an  -I u   -s          -am -nu  --                      - -  -   -               -      -
fail slaarat how       b      -           -M U 03 -123133  -M313        -11 -1W   4      W    -f1   -lb   -Ii?  -33       -           -3 .        . *.         .     . -  -.-
aIa"sud kw latga                               Im     2la       SIt at2   is  I                 sm        UlI          n     in     w   m-                     -      -     -
as eCm  f aow. ton               -      - .    -     M     J2   414   Nu   ion   lo              as4    em    "      am5    Jr  t  sa =I         un        ias U44   Isa  U14   sw   1s
_-_-------------------------------                      __ m_t k it W  of  NM fieW    I_m   q W On td term. tAid_t ltgtw Wa Bamba  =  tbuami--             -     --    --- -------------
*5 ham., -  cuett _mitua drns bam 4, Id" 0S
li bairn IWo p1W   u.tu pitcy. be Iltatti b              afmi K    pta t t pd t arpeitwa/r.alurt  d mistia, stumy, 1wpat *l., ntului em AbN  5,. lit L
l kwat   r*tm   nubt  at al At w     dad Urn mtutq b-  mp  taima  aw Om1            t fontdl It*ttat I,b i heotpat 1km _t lofsm. ml atuhi  turns ar baaswat is SEmis t. ti twsaag  oa nistitiag
IN" at mm       te du t b ulups,       Is" a ds cmtme of Io        pi n  fw t bU) Cw pbs, Sm paries. bI IattW MI U  .6t rnl tar mat Iaratais  tae          tag ml pletos onte ab
'aprat alit 9fil5 .
de an toaIn maUi a pawt to in a   eap wrymt at Mfg a  "Vennt urae n dirnt *S P.J. tn mai no t _a yar tri 1 df tAM       pus *   pimPs r4PrWd.  ffar 1 mat. . ysa Watid rW n adnat.
_amu  of grumpr odd he s         IVou   dks, tm saitialt Wm pared.
St 1114SKiS  g4Atus SAtr  M  W4t aist ea turn. bk   mvuse papris am km urnw in ot ta smat toift ter" by immat  lb atad papmut of Itn apittils stag,. tutoru  fr tombs.
d_uWrn      t tb Dailml stnb ii  tal Id at btl tidiu    u   t mplaish Di Ot  IWI Situ tr   t ttU tM uittw. iF  Ism  ubtdi h    tuap  wrmint tte siams_  nittt iurdmu  usiSitma
idtA _a k n   tINr Aattap 13la M  a  ti AS U la _dua  pus.
U5 Eelsi td u tir bas of too pa_t to rdm  13 at prahti dtf w a         1mattag m sses uraat #Iriw
It kr  _  4,1&1r L
U M   amusis amisa taWtd at dA   1 1.31 ha bu _ u1at CF   M.i N    *M  ts a aba it* p    St VW of l=.  b Satt  whiag qta  ams bra. ba nanaaa du I        VM_p pS.
U91 ta  psasum h O atiusat d m_st dab adi be  pds t_ br ateasag * sote0attry #thpaty fats.. Is  rns c t add pw tA  _ow pnout caattiJ atmt l*t at taptil rupar mts
usd be pwiai is tar tar of apty.
U W   uto iduadt  tfers patt tr,btm  a cab att1.
IU ft ae  eapimat. is _maa   at ma _am  I t ilt  b tisd 1        tr I  (in ttae bion.



.~ a * ~ q a s a t e   g e ~ w u A lm t a I #   * *  414 41   lIV 'l.    I J .   W   1 5 )  " I* m i *id   s e . e Il J ql i:a S U ~ *   a n   P 5I 31 S #1f   saan     q   "I   n; ' a a   6 1   4 1.   m e4   %~.. ;A W a g   su e   e. s owa   g q   c tA:f   e qs  . s   to
talal *SS0.0 N on"~ Sol a   PIPUtI' OMq  "  "#$) so 14f 40t a
555*a stiei S 'Was~ %eemq Sol not u;,up ua"  suq saws aAwa %0~ UmIsuse all iuSov Al bsaneq wU "U-"'o maAvfMa nips t %m an sl sorn U hugg.g ow lh,asy A U1go e Oil
-toxp 414 p   ingb"  w 011"113 we   l 'atm pw 5s2ps     ea n uaas, gmsa biLqame swlo hiavsO eps    I a.as   P~So sm  uiet a p Aaean, s M  Noq i sIas agnsq JIM i
laW) sam iua~s li.,.       PUe'M  'asbaa  s; bag sasaw etug      Sowmn au-Aws aap mu ase esquiausias bokm     mpg ,ab.o peas  we'Uama PUham  PUIP  M" ' m*iaw tims amu  f
53 tis   mmu- ci mic wiswaps fall W ,, m inwiw 534455P  iaMo moine ia sq s  'W w      pk  mugl loop"" Smainu. dq o ,paj  a.l e  sae fi   uaiaesAe s  gq PUml aeisaa III A# Isse)u5111
*M 0111 q s. It ,wniep  apt so.    ispaiilI suepso 'supq sq $psasug-ise us - gm at   SI"m; sa. Suin slagovisqu al issue i sp  II"a mPi    ga"    . saslAi go mp,     hsmgal anstut s06AI
oiu  gif Al sp e pstpas iUW   'm n el -  P salsqtea VA    ans Ps seq in .gm a dUqa s03wpeq  e   up"earn' u;iss,   d '552  'XI   no;- Sam    jemaust  allovdO;of   AM*ulwal p l passu sq    ologaill
PU wivio 'walloologi  m'tsat~  't wl It    us e pg'sw p  eAMi wmb ' siti ma uuauaid p'i esma ow  smsh m  hkutusanu  at idlpq S.=  PU onm  pale s  Al me1lo rn,spwP sjus sa
lute. vaideal jgil;) mAl usuqes Ittoosiea III)   sas gir   sIt on"   qulm; fS mesa egagole st suMiw me o  s;opuu  PU giat5  pususeo 1513 let N iow  on a tewasms MOq sqvo flisq 4s saus  Si so
to-  oil-   us    iLl    is    am    am    tsi   tel-   516   ai    ii                  t      of   tie   491-  till-  tM-. art-  fllt-   M-.    5.hS t ll- mliin Is
ICM   Sal   lug   ama   tam    ama   tam       mal  Sul   WI   MIs  Goo   qg    so    ai   M~I  tall  OKIm  Mn                     -                      -                           lsolo"  P's
te  ie  e    ont   I"    pg    pg    II    III   pg    "I   pg    11"    IN    M              ut    orc    pi   I                                        agm U5'now     Il
WI   sit    n       ga      go   us e a lm   go   pg    110   to           tos     a           a     aa-                     -               a "NIsM                   ISAM          J MehU3ssa '#P
469    495%5               695   19      55    65    in       M     M i t sa   IN    in    us   ito    Ms   W4 1            M                                                          MM sa a 'a
*  U  U  U   U      U      S      U      U~~~~ Is    U       to    a       to    3      it           .      .     .    .    .      .      .      .      .       I5SUomiUgII)tUW
tom   t    Ms        M      Ms    M      Msi    Ms    is      ma       M    is    a      M     4m 1    aM    fll    mit  ML         .                . -              .lNtPPI
i      i      u     u      t      g      t      t                  I      I      g                   t     sa     W      a     I                                       I     agtaaseis Uhaasasuo
Mt    its    Sua    is    mu    tea    Kgs    m u te    IN    Ms    Ot  st              us"   Ws    ato   ate    Ms   tea   I                  sitI I                  I " IUS)UIMt41p ool
tea    Ms    tea1   Ms    Ms   Me    Ms         M     te    te    te                 a                      allte  S111 tel Ciel    I                                  S 55p051' PU tUute
II It    I                                         It    I      I      I      I     I      I      I        -                    .     -             .      .              assta,n uhqig
vi  t           v  Rs     vi    sa    ad    M      in s         if    Id      sa     s ad   d i          IV its        mesa    un    till   to    moo   all  Its                   muss-i
-  .  .  -  .   -     -      -      -             -     -                 En~~~~~~~~~~4    EnK    c  I  Me    do   M         t         "Po 41  a   *uinamofinsge low
tvn    atg                                                                                                  IN  a- -      s"s    MIs  im    ii          .     -               I *q sqq   -  lq.m;u4u9w
-  -  -  -  -   -      -                                              -   tat    am    ta'   em~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   us    toga mu  t    41   Sia-si te.' ssuealt
--        -                                 -    -- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                   al   K    ot '               aqol as imuam
ssae.e aiim  astr  Mimis  WWIm uwail "MIes 41101Is utees  asuast isusai was111 tess wusm  owlat ma     WWIs sWWI "nst mussm                 e mm  s mm   s W m u   vasesIM
sppma.m.w pdm  a s  pmn itnp
II stiAlut soivila
a eMwl
was' 1?  la"  usmope  tauJuo
su-
'0-411 In - sumW UIU tee - "MIe



WM                   * NMI -5. hi-lB
Sma 4
1ess LaSis.o kwl - ML luluat
..s. . ..        as..
ma. Sapeumat Sm SMqm  SM Smustinate PS. . .. .....
UU no
nid  h-ma  V   3"  In v                              no 1"  X    lJ"           an 3ki  In  0                     n    n    n                                             
Inspsisbl od                           a       n      m       a         u      I   -                    -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -       n
swi.. g. G I      _pi
"KW%              ad #PMun a                  s    s   m ama m    m    0 s                        a  3ma  W n                 M t   a   s  sM                      s  ms   s  ms                          U l
[h #o 118111  - ud  41 ft                                     U       JU    IN       tU  31        h      =        A       31                        39    .          .      .      .       .      .  *         ** SU1
eSW#smm" NuaOliusd   in   m   am  ina  la   m   s   m   no  la   w   i   a .                                                                                                              -            
Isa          5  It _                         -                       SS  -    SA    r -  -a n 9               -ml  -          -             -i          -           S -   -   -    -I * .-
km" ISL S *a. ta            S         0       lds&   53   51  N6   55  a5   "i  mS  IS   Sil  of1   a   is   aO  IN   aM    W    aS   a                                                            I* in la
anwq ad   s                                 7                 a bsI  u             a a U           aS             a a a,  -a Isa                                           -   - a                      - a aa
1ued l                                                                    -,a            - -    -    -    -      -  -  -    U   i    2    5    a   m -u       as    -    -i   -l   -i   -u  -   . U               "
oltabit0WKn  0                .         .    - .    S .     / .    U .     #R-WI-s . A .    .                       a          -W "b         n Ui~  to       it?     II    W          ol       III     HI II          t
had 1.Sds gabt                  Sfl  U                       asa    masm -"ii -ii  -i  -i  ii -                                               m  - -        -,-li       -Ir -to -iii -;iA -lai -ii -ii
ml"
. bumego.S, I                                                          a  *                assU IU        a      s    so    a   so   so   so   no so so   slt                              s no no               so                    a
I_, o      ba Nuts  _ b      S I                                       S            U       U      3      3      3              10         0          4  0           6       4     i       u      u       t       41 
os-                      *    *    -    *    -    *                    3ii1 53i  aii   US  7M                    -   .. ii  BIS                 w 5   5    55  I               w 55  a    a          u   iw
ig  we5k-t11liliid1  iia bm siii                                                                                                                     Ui 3w    a~ a         ii  3              F i6iii a--- a    iii
1   awuls                                          ust_  1             a         -           - 41   -W            -      U     onS    ai   on         m     gm      11m11    m      a    1 1a     O       a
1a  t  lS.                    -      -       -      -              -        Ml   55    lISP      SU     Wm    SOB    SU       213"  15   204    353   IJi iV    MV                 61    MM      SP  IMt   251X01"
i.i awl_'s                         -a      -a     -M       WI  -a        -5,    -S      -s  -so'              ~    -          a      aiii1          m      ns             am    i1      ii       ii             as s
---_-_-                                                                  -  -_------------*--     e Meei s                )I-                                                              .   .    ... -_ _- --__, ,,,,_   . ...........
1,   i    code med bloaliS, kw  hw   ak lalSa         hlS .4 of   mal    *samsa K   Ci eats    hemarnsB Si  p1in  fro felHMis F. 11SlU s 1 _aa 2. tales, 1s1 till ls-r    eeds.dn clar aFlMI powep                "too
KlatS CI& Mi SsrtaSe IW Of hat t B   e  ad  M'   ips te  SaSS ver, Mi vaa rag*| * W         r t  rl, dal prumamue Sn oh I&agm  "we, a iaiX  a &AS  tatISM1S S.  tapati esemave,* imia ol
Sm lame Om  e,lsea li at wSo  -w       o ftesrual das. FM tmesael Si              ie     so i s iota IN. a _adime   thnp rate ba No mu * al   is OK low  Sbn the deldna  estha  rate *rr all pnt a rea
t:a   FICS*111. basag kh ub$Wnt. Pa    ,tiS  Si,te          Ie  # an  a Ptap matbap awl eIst            SeU mdgi, Iat US OM  esltdaa    t tht _Mai   ethap #at. us Sem  ties ft  mhitiall rate by 2  to
F15W531. MS ai FISSIIS, ad Ii nslS         M    s  tear ba.  ml           . lbv. Sa  etadus  Sal OW    kmu bn   e. mm ts Cetu t Lated M       i  S  orpre,sd to mcrm   t    d* at  is matrt dUS isa.
it leum_S (l .t s lm  gart  me Ms pspds. 5WI    ts, Si*d .m* Md                   l sule _atM, 010 magmtel Mi  fteistet4    dlbe5e  thte   aaee 1nsit prt, aM  livt nstitl amne   m tel  hgm   tSi,.
51 hyisus  Asesgeses bar bm  galtSaid at 50.4 atatsMeapial  i aratot set ges Sm Ise Ws, flalMis  to ftsnees.
4*5    sales 14. tam bIU   IfruSOur*pot meaB 1t Kt. all  erat ses teds tlter #leitlsg reustn  Ires the  le  l toI     ri as bitc, hm bu   pitaSstesd as rewelpeet ml he-bowelss tzpmeituln. 1i
filMuS  IM  Aes apatallsii et ld        Its 1et, matusaieatls  md i.KS  aelWratSg teswt. All    t*alC4 ssm11    at. tate tr heat Ma dIKIi     ft&ttt. (etahblismhet cots.
So V to Fuu lu,s   rha14tme  ai Seliseg cut OKlei too tats tl galIfe tra tel, setearte at hS e11ilse    "wt S. hsFiIIP    on""il traew   tcole he beom navn  rors the bew ellS stret. a pettel re.",o,
rte e OM n e of Calin km  ine taScraaten a the bBs Nm  a-latclin  Pictn.
a    1 m1tile, t le ltoalls as, SW bdimts for a mll n   rJs,, to ba hss talielalte    Ikthe 6,1 at tusint ttoibeeie l sel. 00s1elt thes  vIIIssBiI  tee t he.. , Ile 4    .   iasiacOl cine *JIN"     Iat(.
Is Invsite laprvnet,rs la aeueiaqt $' I. sevea'nt.ls fill he  eanted OWN the snowd I   . I '."



,I PS41C4 0-1  OaiI   P131el oft  IIIp   116 $Nv              M l IPM   191V   seaIU J    IM O2P 3                         11  l  e   1121ss               land aas  UA"sW9I-  -  -  -    -        w    awl43     all3Sim  It
'4I#ac4   'is,   'in    'n   is   eit       'tl  'iPI    a'su 'tsl   o|si    us,    me    sa t    tag    p                 .11 |e .        -   '       e.                          -|    .       ISIPI   31W  Ut" 51" 1 9 5
'130'8 "OW) POSON *n A_  PNMI 44 Ill S*zSM _ 00 _Ok  01 'IVBIO Pk I pw I awt am of "  wnw 2M'3 !'.up  an-  "Im am am Sioa  Poso  St3 .. t.'!
...-- -. -, *             U  *t . .. ....  .... ...... . ........               . . . . . . . .                       .       . Rla  t........eye....                                                    Pu__.____---- -
ZS    IZI    gi       US        ttH, (tUS,,,   USt_, Ut    el   _I          Its! 6            "      *       ..     ..      . .. ...               ..     ..      ..      ... -!  -g  _.    !.t _.  .  -  .-   ..  : ..   :   -     :---  ---  ---   - -  --~ -  .SUISUP.    . . .
MnI         f ll i     no W1,     "itin  i            I,tRo    lt     W      a,   Ill  ti P    Il,          SM I    t        -           -                          - -                                             W'I  "W
......   n..  _..  .... n                                                           .. ..t ea n .  .t t             t   -- .  -  -  -  -  -  -   -                                                      1  -1 
pg    pg  pSg    pg1    pgt  pg1  pg              t     UI  *B  itl  U                1 tS        z   95      U         -       -       -      -    -          -       -  
VI '    t      *n       s           U      *t         at     em      a       sC     ut    Ul         t         *              -      - - .          - V  o  :                               - .                S I IS mu!
.i..i       .      .ill   lis.t     ....it i l          i..s  _ . _   . M.          It   _ _ _t            III .t                                                                                              n.. _    fps
ug   tg   U~   pU  PU   U                      g U    U   PU   Pt U                 Uo nt at  of   U1 de                                     --q
LI     I-      LI       I-     4-      I      *        l-    L-       I .......       - .... ..              .     9                                                .      .       .* WP~D  
Ut    1(       it      a1      a      it        9 s 9        a       91      U       tt  ttt   tl   1U1                      -       -       -      - .                                     - .illS 1134t 51M
........ ..........._ _.__.                                                                                              _._... ..__. _........   ._ ........... ..  __._____...._._________
Is t       tt  to              tt     t       t       It      It     6        t             a       U      U       a         -       -       -          -       -          -       -        -        DI kbln U w  k      t
Eu      ut     a u     3             laU             Au     35 st           it St    l    lit    Pa       Du       Atl      -       -       -      -               - -                     -                     "Ad 4 W   * 4
lt- A- U                 .    -  t le    l-   t-                   tl tt  11 F ___                                   .    ...9.. _._lespiviam hw pd
.5..  !...                         __                                   . .    - .. . ...t .   .       _   _                                                               .       .        .91       letI B        i _'. .
tl     Is      I       s      I   I           i      I                       - *   t-   tt  *1                    go U               ." - -  -      .       .      .       .           .       ,it StUIWS l'tW
....... ... .... ..             ._ .s .s  .. .t 8                               .U..!.  .......z                 .._!      ---  ---  ---
-      -  -        -          -   U s                -               -          -       -              P a -    tl  -     -       -      -       -       -      -       -        -          IIUSM4P          to"Bn
-      -                   -          -       -              -                   e! tt              U t        UtPs       -       -       -      -       -      -       -           -          n-t tU    P'tt'UcI Ma  1916
'-.--  -----  --.-----    -- ---  ~--               --~--------  .-          . ......... .---  .~~ ...      W"       -l - --l---  ---------t
_1I        0   ..  ... .. (JO. !0       J     ..... 141"' ,W SIM  3_3   _V
P ISMP 3S
n4.4 low -8 WW join) - 130n



NOTES
i



NOTES
I



