Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
-VOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-239la-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
November 30, 1978
This document lhs a restdrted dItributI u nd may be sd by recipents only In the performance of
their ofical dts. Its conents may not othenrise be disclosed without World BDank authorbation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit               =               Kwacha (K)
US$1.00                     =               K 0.83
K 1.00                      =               US$1.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =               3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        2   -               0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  =                 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =               2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBC      -    Consumer Buying Corporation
INDECO   -    Industrial Development Corporation
LINTCO   -    Cotton Parastatal
Mi       -    Ministry of Industry
MLA      -    Ministry of Lands and Agriculture
NIEC     -    National Import and Export Corporation
OSZ      -    Overseas Services Zambia, Ltd.
RDC      -    Rural Development Corporation
RUCOM    -    Rucom Industries, Ltd.
ZIMCO    -    Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZAMHORT  -    Zambia Horticultural Parastatal
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Zambia          -          January 1 - December 31
RUCOM                        -          April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower             : Republic of Zambia
Beneficiary          : RUCOM Industries, Ltd.
Amount               : US$6.0 million
Terms                :  Standard
Relending Terms      : US$4.5 million would be relent to RUCOM for a term of
20 years, including five years grace at an interest
rate of not less than 10 percent per annum.
Project Description : The proposed project would develop coffee production
through: (a) rehabilitating and developing Ngoli
and Kateshi coffee estates to 450 ha producing, at
full development, about 800 tons of clean coffee plus
about 2,000 tons of maize; (b) rehabilitating and
developing smallholder coffee production in the
Northern and Northwestern Provinces and (c) strengthen-
ing the national coffee research institutions. The
project would save for the country about US$2.2 million
per annum in coffee import substitution and earn about
US$0.2 million per annum in maize exports. It would
provide annual employment for about 960 persons.
The risks include firstly, a slower than anticipated
rate of implementation which could result if the
required technical assistance were not obtained on
schedule. However, arrangements have already been
initiated for the early recruitment of suitable key
staff. Secondly, there is uncertainty concerning
attainment of projected coffee production. However,
the targets have been realistically estimated well
below the technical yield potential.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
US$ Million              Foreign as a
Item                              Local      Foreign    Total       % of Total
A. Estate Coffee, Production
and Processing                2.65        2.53       5.18           49
B. Smallholder Coffee
Development                   0.45        0.33       0.78           42
C. Coffee Research               0.28        0.16       0.44            36
D. Physical Contingencies        0.36        0.33       0.69            48
E. Price Contingencies           0.68        0.50        1.18           42
Total Project Cost            4.42        3.85       8.27           47
Total Project Cost           (3.72)      (3.85)    (7.57)           51
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
US$ Million
Local      Foreign    Total       % of Total
Financing Plan:
IDA                           2.15        3.85       6.00           79
Republic  of Zambia           0.90         -         0.90            12
Project Generated Funds 1/  0.70           -         0.70            9
TOTAL                         3.75        3.85       7.60          100
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/FY                     1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
--------------…US$ million-------------
Annual                      0.60   1.40   1.34   1.33   1.05   0.28
Cumulative                  0.60   2.00   3.34   4.67   5.72   6.00
Rate of Return:   21 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 2173a-ZA, dated November 15, 1978
1/   A cash flow analysis for the project indicates that, in view of the
timing of these funds, bridging finance of about US$500,000 in the
form of medium-term loans may be required.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zambia for the equivalent of US$6.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for coffee production.
US$4.5 million of the proceeds of the credit would be relent to RUCOM Indus-
tries, Ltd. for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest
rate of not less than 10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Zambia (1586b-ZA) was issued in December
1977. Its main conclusions are reflected below. The most recent economic data
are summarized in Annex I.
3.        With its large mineral reserves and large area of land suitable
for crops and livestock, Zambia has the potential for rapid and sustained
development. From 1965 through 1977, however, real output grew at a rate of
only 2.8 percent per annum owing to stagnation in mining, agriculture, con-
struction, and transport and communications; the value added by the other
sectors increased at a higher rate - services at 6.7 percent annual'Ly and
manufacturing at 7.7 percent annually. In recent years, the Zambian economy
has been battered by a severe economic crisis caused primarily by depressed
world copper prices and exacerbated by external political and transport
difficulties. 1977 GNP per capita was US$450 - virtually unchanged from that
of the previous year. In urban areas, per capita incomes were over three
times those of rural areas, providing a powerful incentive for migration.
Today more than one-third of the country's population lives in towns and there
is substantial urban unemployment.
Goals and Performance
4.        The broad economic and social goals of Zambia's last two national
development plans (1966-1970 and 1972-76) may be summarized as follows:
(i) raising the general level of welfare; (ii) diversifying the economy to
make it less dependent on copper; (iii) narrowing the gap between urban and
rural incomes; and (iv) raising the level of education and developing a wide
range of technical and managerial skills. While progress toward the goals of
more rapid growth, diversification and equity has been relatively slow,
substantial progress has been made in education and training.
5.        Despite stagnation in copper production since independence, Zambia's
heavy dependence upon mining continues; in 1977 the mining sector still
accounted for more than 90 percent of exports and about 21 percent of GDP.



Such a heavy reliance has had unfortunate repercussions for the country. Wide
fluctuations in world copper prices have caused serious instability in govern-
ment revenues and the balance of payments. Periods of high prices resulted in
the expansion of expenditure to levels which could not be sustained without
serious stress in periods of low prices. As a result of the current slump in
world demand for copper, Zambia is passing through its most serious economic
crisis since independence (paras. 10-12). Because of the precipitous decline
in copper prices since mid-1974, the mining companies' profits have been
severely squeezed (at times, turning to losses), their tax contribution to
the Government has declined to zero and their growing reliance on borrowing
Irom the central bank and commercial banks has led to more rapid growth of the
domestic money supply and hence contributed to inflationary pressure.
6.        Although Zambia has plentiful land for the development of crops and
livestock, the contribution of the agricultural sector to increasing welfare,
diversifying the economy and bridging the rural-urban gap has been below its
potential. During the ten years following independence (1964-74), output ex-
panded at a rate of only about two percent annually, failing to keep pace with
population growth and resulting in a continuing reliance on imports of food
and agricultural raw materials, most of which Zambia has the capacity to
produce at home (e.g., wheat, rice, vegetable oils). The failure of the
sector to perform up to its potential has been due largely to government
pricing policies which discouraged production and reduced farm incomes while
insufficient government resources were devoted to the planning and imple-
mentation of programs and projects.
7.        It is against this background that, in the last three years, the
Government has begun to devote greater attention to the rural areas, taking
steps to increase price incentives and improve project implementation capacity
in the rural sector. Agricultural producer prices for a wide range of crops
have been substantially increased since 1973/74 which, together with generally
favorable weather conditions, contributed to more rapid output growth; agri-
cultural value added grew at 4.6 percent per annum during the 1975-77 period.
Mai'e production hit record levels in 1976 and 1977 and large increases were
ie&istered in the output of cotton, groundnuts, wheat, rice and sunflower
seeds. The Government is committed to maintaining adequate incentives for
farmers and, in August 1978, announced further producer price increases for
the 1978/79 growing season ranging from 10 to 19 percent for maize, sunflower,
groundnuts, wheat and coffee. In addition the Government has taken a number
of steps to increase production directly. Efforts to augment its capacity
to implement projects have begun in rainfed wheat production and a number of
programs have been undertaken to train manpower (particularly youth) for rural
employment. The Government has expressed its intention to strengthen the
Ministry of Lands and Agriculture (NILA) and provincial administrations and a
working group has recently submitted a draft report. President Kaunda has
charged the MLA with the responsibility for identifying and preparing projects
in eight or nine key areas of high growth potential on which the development
effort would be focused; in some cases these projects may involve only small-
holders, and, in others, estates with joint government and private ownership,



-3-
with smallholders as outgrowers. The Bank is currently providing assistance
to a special unit in the MLA for the identification and preparation of
projects in these areas.
8.        Manufacturing, although expanding more slowly than in the 1960's,
has contributed to growth and diversification while providing employment for a
growing number of migrants from the rural areas. However, much of the invest-
ment in manufacturing has been for final stage assembly or processing indus-
tries, necessitating large inputs of imported raw materials and capital goods.
Such a structure of development has made the sector more vulnerable to periodic
foreign exchange shortages and meant that its contribution to import substitu-
tion and employment has been less than would have been the case with an
investment policy more oriented towards agro-processing and resource based
industries - e.g., fruits and vegetables processing, cooking oil, sugar,
copperwire and cable, textiles and clothing, wood products, and furniture.
9.        Zambia has made important strides in improving the economic and
social infrastructure necessary for future development. Investments in power
and transportation have laid the basis for a future expansion in copper pro-
duction and the rest of the modern sector. At independence, there wras a
severe shortage of skilled manpower (e.g., Zambian university graduates
numbered less than 100). Since then the expansion of the educational system
has been impressive. From 1964 to 1974, primary school enrollments doubled
and secondary and technical school enrollments more than quadrupled; since its
establishment in 1966, the University of Zambia has produced 860 graduates and
enrollment has increased more than sevenfold. Despite these achievements,
skilled manpower remains an important constraint on the development effort.
The Current Economic Crisis
10.       Because of Zambia's dependence upon copper, the fall in copper
prices from US$0.93/lb in 1974 to an average of US$0.60/lb during the 1975-77
period has had serious consequences for the balance of payments, government
budget and domestic production. The sharp decline in copper prices (combined
with stagnating copper sales volumes) has led to large balance of payments
deficits beginning in 1975. Despite government controls on imports (which,
when combined with an average rate of increase of 20 percent annually in
import prices, have sharply reduced import volumes), a 20 percent devaluation
of the Kwacha in mid-1976 and stricter controls over service payments (e.g.,
expatriate remittances, foreign travel), current account deficits of US$611
million, US$58 million and US$228 million were incurred during the years 1975,
1976 and 1977 respectively. Because net capital inflows during the three
years were far short of the amounts necessary to finance these deficits, large
arrears in payments for imports and for private foreign remittances were
accumulated and foreign exchange holdings declined. By the end of 1977,
arrears had accumulated to US$470 million. Between the ends of 1974 and 1977
net foreign assets fell from US$119 million to minus US$227 million; gross
international reserves at the end of 1977 stood at US$74 million (the equiva-
lent of just under one month's worth of imports).



11.       Through its import licensing system, the Government has attempted to
allocate foreign exchange to those products most essential for the operation
of the economy. While the real volume of imported consumption items fell 65
percent between 1975 and 1977, imports of capital goods and of spare parts, raw
materials and intermediate goods fell 42 and 32 percent respectively. Shortages
of spare parts and essential intermediate goods have created idle capacity and
unemployment in many productive sectors and contributed to a decline in real
output.  While real GDP fell 2 percent between 1975 and 1977, larger declines
were suffered in manufacturing (11 percent), construction (13.8 percent), and
transport, communications and storage (25.8 percent), sectors particularly
affected by shortages of essential imports.
12.       To counter the effects of falling mineral tax revenues, the Govern-
ment has attempted to curb expenditures while increasing non-mineral tax
revenues. Firstly, in contrast to the 1965-75 growth rate of 15 percent per
annum, recurrent expenditures expanded by only 4.2 percent annually during the
1975-77 period (far less than the rate of inflation). Government wages have
been frozen while subsidies were cut by 20 percent through substantial in-
creases in the prices of fertilizers and important basic foods such as maize
meal, wheat flour and bread; nonetheless other recurrent expenditures have
continued to expand, mainly due to greater servicing charges on foreign and
domestic debt and rising prices of goods purchased by Government. Secondly,
capital expenditures have been cut by about 30 percent, severely reducing the
Government's development effort; in real terms government capital expenditures
during 1975 to 1977 were lower than in the late 1960s. Thirdly, non-mineral
tax revenues have been expanded greatly through higher personal and company
taxes and increases in the rates and coverage of sales, excise and customs
taxes; during 1975 to 1977, income tax revenues increased 39 percent while
revenues from sales and excise taxes and tariffs grew by 28 percent. Despite
these expenditure cuts and tax increases, which partially offset the effects
of the precipitous decline in mineral revenues and brought a steady decline
in the size of budgetary deficits over the three year period, deficits con-
tinued to be large and were financed mainly by borrowing from the central
bank and commercial banks; this added to inflationary pressures at a time when
domestic production and declining import volumes were reducing the available
supply of goods. During the 1975-77 period the rate of inflation averaged 14
percent annually.
13.       Adding to Zambia's present difficulties are the major problems it is
experiencing with the transportation of its imports and exports. Some 90
percent of its international traffic currently moves along the transport route
through the Port of Dar-es-Salaam. Effective capacity on the rail and road
corridor to the Port now has fallen to such a low level as to cause major
disruptions in the movement of both imports and exports, although the recent
reopening of the southern rail route in October 1978 and the planned reopening
of the Benguela Railway in the near future should provide some relief. This
has resulted from (i) the TAZARA Railway's failure to achieve expected per-
formance, due in large measure to new and unseasoned staff, spare part short-
ages, inadequate maintenance of locomotives and rolling stock and difficulties
in offloading goods; (ii) deterioration of road trucking capacity (lack of



spare parts and adequate maintenance); (iii) arrears in payments on freight
and port charges, and (iv) resulting congestion in the Port of Dar-es-Salaam.
At the Government's request the Bank is currently examining ways to help
alleviate these problems.
The 1978 Budget and Economic Program
14.       The Government planned through a reduction in expenditures and in-
creased taxes to bring about a sharp decline in the size of the 1978 budgetary
deficit, thus (together with an expansion in disbursements from foreign
loans) reducing its reliance on borrowing from the central bank and commercial
banks by over 60 percent as compared with the 1977 level; these measures
should contribute to reducing inflationary pressures. Among the major bud-
getary measures were: a reduction in recurrent expenditures mainly due to a
33 percent cut in subsidies resulting from substantial price increases for
maize meal and fertilizers; a freeze on the level of capital investment,
which, taking into account inflation, would reduce the Government's investment
program to the lowest level since independence; and an eight percent increase
in non-mineral revenues mainly through higher duties on imports of capital
goods and luxuries, and higher sales and excise taxes on various luxury items.
However, preliminary estimates suggest that the budgetary deficit may be
somewhat larger than originally planned; while recurrent and capital expendi-
tures will be lower than in the 1978 Budget, there will be a substantial
shortfall in corporate income tax receipts and customs and excise taxes
because of the decline in economic activity and the fall in imports owing to
transport difficulties. In addition to the budgetary measures, the Government
has taken other steps to increase the diversification of the economy and
ensure more appropriate relative factor prices. Among the most important
measures are: (i) a 10 percent devaluation of the Kwacha (on March 17, 1978)
designed to increase the international competitiveness of Zambian goods and,
together with cost cutting measures, to raise mining company profits, thus
reducing their reliance on the domestic banking system for borrowed funds;
(ii) increased agricultural producer prices (see para.7) and a 30 percent
increase in government budgetary investment in agriculture (at a time when the
capital budgets of most other ministries are being cut); (iii) an Industrial
Development Act designed to attract private domestic and foreign capital
through assurances about nationalization and to promote such government goals
as exports, use of local raw materials, use of labor-intensive techniques and
the development of rural, small-scale enterprises through various types of tax
incentives; and (iv) a freeze on wages and an increase in interest rates in
order to hold down private consumption and encourage savings, as well as
promote more labor-intensive production techniques.
External Capital Requirements
15.       Zambia has relied on external capital flows to an extent similar to
other African nations with comparable per capita income (e.g., Ivory Coast
and Congo). The terms of these flows range from the very concessionary terms
given by the People's Republic of China to suppliers' credits and Euro-dollar
loans. With a 24 percent share in debt outstanding and disbursed at the end
of 1977, the Bank is the country's largest creditor, just ahead of the



- 6 -
People's Republic of China (22 percent) and private banks (23 percent).
Zambia's outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to US$1.3
billion at the end of 1977. Owing to greater reliance on external capital
flows, a growing proportion of which has been from commercial lenders, and
to a trend toward harder loan terms from all sources (except bilateral).
Zambia's debt service ratio has increased since the late 1960s. These fac-
tors, in combination with relatively low copper prices, resulted in a debt
service ratio of 19.4 percent in 1977.
16.       Given current copper price projections and the need to build-up
foreign exchange holdings and pay off arrears, the 1978-80 period will see
continued balance of payments stringency (owing to the sluggish recovery
of the world economy, current Bank projections show little improvem,snt in
real copper prices before 1981). The Government will, therefore, have to
maintain tight imp6rt controls with consequent continued shortages of spare
parts and materials, unutilized productive capacity and unemployment. Even
under such restraints, net capital flows required to cover the current
account deficits, pay off arrears, and eliminate the negative net foreign
assets balance by the end of 1980, would amount to about US$1.4 billion over
the three year period. Over US$380 million is being provided by IMF resources,
including a standby agreement (approved by the Fund Board on April 26, 1978),
the Compensatory Financing Facility and the Trust Fund (to date Zambia has
actually drawn about US$180 million from these facilities). Zambia's terms of
trade are expected to improve in the early 1980's (current Bank projections
show an increase in real copper prices, as compared with 1977, of about 33
percent by 1981 and 67 percent by 1985). Its capital requirements, therefore,
should fal., averaging around US$400 million per annum during the 1981-85
period. In obtaining capital over the 1978-85 period, the past trenid toward
harder loan terms for Zambia's external borrowing are not expected to continue.
A recent Consultative Group Meeting for Zambia, organized under the auspices
of the Bank, revealed a sizeable increase in bilateral and multilateral aid
committed to Zambia under relatively soft terms. The Bank also considers
Zambia to be eligible for a small amount of IDA lending in view of t:he
country's large short- and medium-term capital requirements, its recent
progress towards economic diversification and improved fiscal management
(paras. 13 and 14) and its per capita income level. On these assumptions,
Zambia's debt service ratio would average about 23 percent per annum through
1980, slowly declining thereafter as Zambia's terms of trade improve, reaching
about 18 percent in 1985.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Since 1956, the Bank has made 24 loans and one credit to Zambia
totalling about US$530 million. Eleven loans, and the credit approved in
FY78 for a third highway project, together totalling US$346 million (65
percent of the total), financed physical infrastructure projects of which
power, transportation and communications accounted for three quarters of
this amount. Four loans for education helped to expand and develop Zambia's



- 7 -
secondary school system, teacher training, higher education and commercial
agricultural technical education. In 1974 the Bank made a loan for urban
development and a US$30 million program loan. The program loan was slow to
disburse due to dramatically improved copper prices which reduced the Govern-
ment's need for the funds, and partly because the disbursement mechanism
proved more complicated then expected. US$12.5 million of the loan was
cancelled in June 1975. A second program loan extended in late 1976 provided
foreign exchange for importing essential capital and intermediate goods, raw
materials and spare parts for agriculture, mining and manufacturing. The Bank
also made a loan to the Development Bank of Zambia in 1976 to help finance
manufacturing and commercial farming. The Bank made five loans during 1968-77
for industrial forest plantations, livestock, commercial crops and integrated
family farming. The livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 and the disbursed
portion prepaid at the Government's request. The project was having serious
problems due mainly to adverse pricing policies and poor management. The
Family Farming Project is experiencing managerial difficulties which are being
overcome gradually. A second loan for industrial forestry in 1977 is assist-
ing the Government's long-term plantation program, and an expansion of logging
and sawmilling capacity. Twelve loans are now fully disbursed. In 1977, the
Bank's shares of Zambia's total debt (disbursed and outstanding) and total
debt service payments were 24 percent and 13 percent respectively. On the
basis of present projections, both of these percentages are expected to be
less than 25 percent in the mid-1980's.
18.       IFC made its first investment in Zambia in 1972 by providing US$1.1
million (including US$227,500 as equity) for the expansion of the Zambia Bata
Shoe Company, Ltd. and, in 1973, invested an additional US$1.2 mill:ion in
Bata for a tannery. In May 1975, IFC invested about US$1.0 million in Century
Packages, Ltd. for a packaging materials factory and a further US$100,000 in
January 1978. An IFC investment of US$550,000 equivalent in the share capital
of the Development Bank of Zambia was made in February 1976 in conjunction
with a US$15.0 million Bank loan to that institution. A summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments along with notes on the execution
of ongoing projects is contained in Annex II.
19.       During the past year, the Bank Group has been providing substantial
assistance to the Government in the preparation of programs and projects for
rural development including this project and a cotton project whose prepara-
tion is near completion. Bank Group assistance in this sector, however, is
not limited to agricultural projects as such. The Fourth Education Project,
approved in 1976, includes a major component for training farmers and govern-
ment agricultural technicians. A rural water supply project, now under pre-
paration, will provide assistance to smaller towns in predominantly rural
environs.
20.       Agricultural and rural sector development is essential to diversify
the economy and improve rural living conditions. Until recently, progress in
this sector has been difficult, primarily because of the Government's weak-
nesses in making and carrying out suitable policies and in formulating and



implementing effective programs. To help identify the sector's problems and
possible solutions, the Bank, at the Government's request, undertook a rural
sector survey in 1975. The report has stimulated wide discussions about
agriculture and rural development at all levels of Government, and is playing
a key role in increasing cooperation between Zambia and the Bank Group in the
development of this sector.
21.       In addition to the agricultural and rural sector, the Bank Group
has carried out sector surveys of investment opportunities in agro-based
industries, urbanization and water supply and sewerage. A basic economic
mission which visited Zambia in June/July 1975, and subsequent follow-up
missions, focused largely on the industrial and mining sectors as well as
manpower planning in its broadest aspects. The reports of these missions
have provided the basis for a more intensive dialogue between the Bank and
Zambia.
22.       While the Bank Group's program will continue to emphasize agri-
cultural and rural development, it will also continue to support the devel-
opment of industry, and of physical and social infrastructure. At the
Government's request, the Bank Group is reviewing Zambia's transport system
to help identify the system's problems and potential solutions, and a pro-
posed third railway project is being prepared. Further assistance is being
considered for the Development Bank of Zambia to help it continue its efforts
in industry and commercial agriculture. In all aspects of the Bank Group's
program, institution building will continue to occupy a central position. To
help meet this objective, a technical assistance project has been prepared and
will be presented for consideration by the Executive Directors shortly.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Description
23.       The agricultural sector is characterized by its dualism.  On one
extreme are about 600,000 smallholder subsistence farmers, using hand tools
and traditional technology, producing primarily for their own requirements
with little marketable surplus, from which they derive small cash incomes
(major crops are cotton, maize, groundnuts and free-grazed beef). On the
other extreme are large state farms and an economically important group of
about 600 expatriate and Zambian commercial farmers, whose farms are large
and on good land. They use modern methods to produce cereals, dairy pro-
duce, beef, poultry and eggs for the urban market and tobacco for export. It
is estimated that over 55 percent of the value of marketed domestic production
is derived from commercial farming.
24.       The sector's performance, particularly in relation to its poten-
tial, has fallen short of expectations over the last decade. Agriculture
contributes about 13 percent to GDP, about 9.5 percent to wage employment
and only about 1 percent by value to Zambia's total exports. During the ten



- 9 -
years following independence (1964-74) output has expanded by only about two
percent per annum, failing to keep pace with population growth, resulting in
a continuing reliance on imported food and agricultural raw materials, most of
which Zambia has the potential to produce at home; imports average about 25
percent of marketed food. In addition, the gap in real incomes between the
rural and urban sectors has been widening rather than narrowing. The reasons
for this inadequate performance are mainly:  (i) lack of an effective sector
strategy; (ii) inappropriate producer and consumer price structures; (iii)
overcentralization of policy planning and control of financial allocations
and management of public services relating to the sector; and (iv) inadequate
allocation of resources.
25.       However, performance of the agricultural sector has picked up con-
siderably over the last three years. Spurred by sharp increases in agricul-
tural producer prices, together with favorable weather conditions, 3ectoral
value added grew by 7.2 percent in 1975 and by 5.8 percent in 1976. However
it grew by only 0.8 percent in 1977. Particularly large output increases
were obtained in maize, groundnuts, cotton, wheat and rice. Zambia reached
self-sufficiency in sugar production in 1975, and further expansion oriented
towards exports is currently underway.
26.       A well-coordinated approach to agricultural and rural dev,slopment,
however, still remains to be defined by the Government. The report of the
Bank Group's Agricultural and Rural Sector Survey carried out in 1975 (see
para. 20) suggested a two-pronged strategy based upon; (i) transforming the
rural sector by focusing public investments and services in areas of high
growth potential; and (ii) obtaining more immediate increases in output
through improved pricing policies and better marketing. The Government has
responded positively to a number of the report's recommendations. For in-
stance, since the 1974/75 growing season, it has substantially reduced the
differential between domestic and world prices of many agricultural commodi-
ties through significant price increases, e.g., maize 58 percent, cotton 15
percent, groundnuts 88 percent, wheat 67 percent, sunflower seeds 46 percent
and soya beans 63 percent. The Government is committed to reviewing all
producer prices before the start of each planting season. In addition, the
Government is taking steps towards strengthening the Ministry of Lands and
Agriculture (MLA). Despite budgetary stringency, the Government is devoting
an increasing amount of budgetary investment to the agricultural sector.
While the total development budget decreased between 1977 and 1978, the
budgetary allocation to agriculture increased by over 40 percent, increasing
its share of the total from 12.8 to 17.9 percent.
27.       The'draft Third National Development Plan, which is scheduled to
be launched by mid-1979, is expected to give the highest priority to rural
development in general and to increasing agricultural production in particular.
It will focus on achieving self-sufficiency in staple foods and the provision
of adequate supplies of raw materials for the domestic agro-based industries.
In addition, the export potential of certain crops (e.g., tobacco, cotton,
sugar, rice, coffee) and a wide range of fruits and vegetables is to be
exploited.



- 10 -
Administration and Planning
28.       MLA is responsible for planning, preparing and implementing the
Government's agricultural program. It operates in the sector directly through
its various departments which include: (i) administration; (ii) planning;
(iii) crops; and (iv) veterinary services. It also operates in conjunction
with its parastatals, which include: the National Agricultural Marketing
Board, the Rural Development Corporation, the Dairy Produce Board, the
Cold Storage Board, the Grain Marketing Board, the Tobacco Board of Zambia and
the Agricultural Finance Company which is being developed into a fully fledged
agricultural development bank. Several parastatals reporting to other minis-
tries are also involved in providing services to the agricultural sector.
These include the Industrial Development Corporation which reports to the
Ministry of Industry, and its wholly owned subsidiary RUCOM Industries,
Ltd. (see para. 43). In addition, the Ministry of Water and Natural Resources
is active in forestry development. However, MLA has been severely constrained
in carrying out its functions by a shortage of qualified manpower. While the
Government is aware of this problem, and has taken steps to strengthen its
educational system in general and agricultural institutions in particular,
the problem persists. Consequently, MLA intends to utilize technical assis-
tance to improve its internal efficiency and to assist with the identification,
preparation and implementation of agricultural projects.  Within MLA, the
Undersecretary for Planning is responsible for preparing and implementing
agricultural investment programs. Because of staff shortages, key planning
staff positions have been vacant, but a recently approved technical assistance
project financed by the Canadian International Development Agency will provide
support staff for a five year period, including a coordinator who will work in
the National Planning Commission as well as four agricultural economists in
MLA. The MLA team will include individuals with expertise in financial
analysis, marketing and project management and implementation.
The Coffee Subsector
29.       The Government of Zambia has accorded high priority to diversifica-
tica of the economy away from copper, and attaining self-sufficiency in food
stuffs and industrial raw materials. This project, which is expected to be
included in Zambia's Third National Development Plan, is in support of the
Government's diversification and self-sufficiency objectives.
30.       Estate Coffee Production.  Coffee production in Zambia is almost
exclusively confined to the Northern Province. It has increased from less
than a ton in 1964 to about 66 tons in 1977. At present most of Zambia's
coffee production (about 52 tons) comes from Ngoli Estate, which is situated
56 km north of Kasama, and has a total area of 548 ha of which 50 ha have
been planted with irrigated coffee. Development of the estate was started
by MLA in 1967, and management was recently taken over by RUCOM. The
Government intends to transfer the legal title to the estate to RUCOM by
December 31, 1979 (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). In 1976
RUCOM embarked on a six year estate coffee development program at Kateshi,



- 11 -
an estate 35 km north of Kasama with a total area of of about 2,333 ha of
which 14 ha have been planted with coffee and 38 ha with maize. A coffee
nursery has been established containing about 140,000 SL-34 coffee seedlings
that are expected to be ready for transplanting in December 1978.
31.       Smallholder Coffee Production.  For the past two decades, coffee
has been grown by a small number of smallholders in the districts of Kasama,
Isoka, Chinsali, Mpika, Mbala and Mporokoso of the Northern Province. Due
to a lack of properly organized credit and input supply, marketing and
extension services, smallholder coffee production has been negligible.
32.       In 1974, MLA launched a smallholder coffee production scheme under
the Intensive Development Zone Program with Danish technical assistance.
There are now about 150 coffee growers under the scheme (about 50 with irri-
gated coffee). Each grower was allocated 0.4 ha of land of which 0.1 ha was
to be planted with coffee each year over a four year period. It is estimated
that so far about 50 ha of coffee have been planted. Since the water pumping
system has been inoperative most of the time, virtually all of the coffee has
been grown under non-irrigated conditions; however, the pumping installation
has now been improved so that irrigation can be applied. Increased yields are
expected, but a meaningful assessment of the scheme can only be made after it
has operated as designed for several years under irrigated conditions.
33.       Coffee Extension and Research.  The Director of Agriculture
(assisted by the Deputy Director for Agriculture - Research, and a Senior
Tree Crops Advisor - Extension) is responsible for coffee research and ex-
tension. The Provincial Agriculture Officer is responsible for extension
work in the Northern Province (assisted by the District Agriculture Officers).
The Chief Research Officer, who is based at the National Research Station
(Mount Makulu), Lusaka, is in charge of the coffee research program. Research
in the Northern Province is administered from Misamfu Regional Research
Center, under which are Malashi and Lucheche sub-stations at Mpika and Mbala,
respectively.
34.       There are no specialized coffee extension workers in the country
except for one Agricultural Assistant in the Intensive Development Zone
scheme. Advice on coffee is given by MLA's district extension staff.
In recent years, extension work has been hampered by lack of funds and, in
particular, lack of transport.
35.       Zambia has a potential for growing coffee particularly in the
Northern and Northwestern Provinces because of their favorable agro-climatic
conditions and availability of water for irrigation from several streams,
which can support coffee estates or groups of smallholdings. The high yields
obtained at Misamfu station are indicative of the potential. It is estimated
that a well managed irrigated estate could produce on average 1,800 kg/ha of
clean coffee at maturity, while well managed irrigated and dryland smallholder
coffee holdings could produce about 1,000 and 600 kg/ha of clean coffee,
respectively.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance
of the Bank Group's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA).  The Govern-
ment's request was received in March, 1978, and the project was appraised
in the field in March/April, 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
from October 30, 1978 through November 3, 1978. The Zambian delegation was
led by Mr. Chaila, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Legal Affairs, and in-
cluded Mr. Sakwanda, Senior Undersecretary for Budget, Ministry of Finance;
Mr. Magande,Senior Planning Officer, Ministry of Lands and Agriculture; and
Mr. Weeresinghe, Advisor to RUCOM.
37.       A report entitled "Zambia - Staff Appraisal of a Coffee Production
Project", No. 2173a-ZA, dated November 15, 1978, is being distributed sepa-
rately.
Objectives and Description of the Project
38.       The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Government
to develop coffee production through: (i) establishing and rehabilitating
commercial coffee estates; (ii) developing smallholder coffee holdings; and
(iii) strengthening coffee research capabilities of the national coffee
research institutions. Specifically, over a five-year period, the project
would:
(a) Rehabilitate and develop the existing Ngoli Estate (50 ha)
and establish 400 ha of coffee plantation at Kateshi estate
through: (a) land preparation of 750 ha; (b) provision of
farm and processing machinery, equipment and vehicles;
(c) establishment of an irrigation system; (d) construc-
tion of access tracks; (e) provision of agricultural inputs;
(f) payment of wages and salaries; (g) construction of
staff houses; (h) technical assistance and training;
(i) construction of coffee pulpery, mill, warehouse,
stores, workshops, and an office; and (j) identification
and preparation of potential projects for future expansions.
(b)  Rehabilitate and develop smallholder coffee production in
four districts of the Northern Province involving 600 sub-
sistence farmers, and in areas of the Northwestern Province
to be determined (para. 41), by: (i) strengthening
extension; (ii) providing inputs and equipment; (iii) con-
structing staff houses; (iv) training; and (v) supplying
vehicles.
(c)  Strengthen coffee research by providing: (i) technical
assistance; (ii) machinery and equipment; (iii) training;
and (iv) vehicles.



- 13 -
39.       Estate Coffee.  The project would develop and rehabilitate 50 ha
at Ngoli estate and establish 400 ha of coffee at Kateshi Estate over five
years. The project would also include planting 450 ha of maize for mulch
and maize grain. The two estates are expected to produce an average of 800
tons of clean coffee and 2000 tons of maize per annum at full development.
For the Kateshi Estate, RUCOM would be given a permanent permit to divert
up to 43,200 m of water per day from the Lukupa River by August 31, 1979
(Section 3.06(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
40.       Under this component the project would provide for: (i) land
preparation of 750 ha; (ii) farm machinery, equipment, vehicles, workshop
equipment and spare parts; (iii) construction of an irrigation system at
Kateshi consissing of a 9 km main canal, 44 km of field distribution channels
and a 30M000 m night storage reservoir; (iv) construction of 66 km of access
tracks; (v) purchase of fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides, etc., and
wages for 60 permanent laborers and 259,000 man-days of occasional labor;
(vi) communication radios, vehicles, administrative expenses and operational
costs; (vii) salaries for a project manager and p2pject engineer and sup-
porting staff; (viii) constru2tion of three 140 m2 prefab houses, seven
70 m houses, twenty-one 43 m houses, fifty 33 m chalets, and an office;
(ix) construction of a pulpery, an inputs store, a workshop and an imple-
ments shed in Kateshi; (x) extension of pulpery, drying and storage areas, and -a
store for inputs and coffee in Ngoli; (xi) construction of a coffee mill
and a coffee warehouse in Kasama; (xii) coffee processing machinery comprising
pulping plants, fermenting plants in Kateshi and a coffee mill plant for 1,000
ton capacity and wasting, grinding and precleaning machines in Kasama; (xiii)
one hundred and twenty days of staff training time in Kenya, ninety days of
training time with machinery agents in Zambia and ninety days training
in London; and (xiv) identification and preparation of future projects.
41.       Smallholder Coffee.  Although favorable agro-climatic conditions
for growing coffee exist (para. 35), previous efforts to promote small-
holder coffee production met with little success due to inefficient extension
and lack of a properly organized marketing system. Because of uncertainty
regarding farmers' response, it is proposed to start with a production
oriented pilot component, which would rehabilitate and promote smallholder
coffee production in the Northern and Northwestern Provinces. In the Northern
Province, the project would provide for (i) employment of two Zambian coffee
development officers, twenty permanent workers and two drivers; (ii) purchase
of two pickups; (iii) inputs and sixty sprayers; (iv) construction of two
staff houses; and (v) training visits to Kenya and Tanzania. Plans for the
smallholder development component in the Northwestern Province have still to
be finalized but would be submitted to the Association for approval in advance
of their execution (Section 3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement). Funds have
also been included in the project for identifying and preparing future small-
holder coffee schemes.



- 14 -
42.       Coffee Research.  The Government's coffee research program has
produced a substantial body of recommendations. However, during the last few
years it has been hampered by lack of funds. An expatriate coffee agronomist
left Zambia in January 1978 and there is no trained Zambian to replace him.
The project would provide for: (i) employment of a qualified and experienced
research agronomist, who would train a Zambian to take over by the end of the
project period, four permanent laborers, 14,700 man-days of casual labor and a
driver; (ii) purchase of a pickup; (iii) construction of a coffee pulpery at
Lucheche; (iv) installation of irrigation pipes at Chabilika substation and
Luapula Province; and (v) training.
43.       Project Implementation.  RUCOM Industries Limited (RUCOM) would
implement the estate coffee production and processing component. RUCOM
was incorporated in 1961 as a private company and in 1968 became a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. which in turn
is a wholly owned subsidiary of Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation - a
parastatal reporting to the Ministry of Industry. The broad objectives of
RUCOM are to establish productive businesses in rural areas. It now runs more
than 30 diversified commercial units scattered throughout Zambia. Although
overall responsibility would rest with the General Manager of RUCOM, a
Project/Plantation Manager would be charged with specific responsibility for
implementing this component. He would report directly to the General Manager,
who, in turn, would report to RUCOM's Board of Directors. The Project/Planta-
tion Manager would be assisted by an Engineering Manager who would be respon-
sible for (i) procurement, operation and maintenance of all the vehicles, farm
and processing machinery; and (ii) construction and maintenance of the build-
ings. In particular, he would be responsible for establishing and operating
the coffee pulperies, the coffee mill and the workshop. Individuals whose
qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to the Association would
be recruited internationally to fill both the Project/Planatation Manager
and the Engineering Manager positions (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). Their appointment would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement). In addition, qualified Zambian
counterparts to the Project/Plantation Manager and the Engineering Manager
would be employed by June 30, 1979 (Section 2.02 (c) of the draft Project
Agreement).
44.       The project would have a very positive impact on RUCOM's financial
situation (the projected financial rate of return is 14 percent). However,
in order to minimize possible financial risks for the coffee component, which
could result from RUCOM's other operations, RUCOM's consolidated long-term
debt would not be allowed to exceed three times its consolidated net worth
(Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement),nor the current assets to
current liabilities ratio to be less than 1.0 (Section 4.05 of the
draft Project Agreement). In this regard, the Government would increase its
equity participation in RUCOM by US$1.6 million equivalent (Section 3.06(b)
of the draft Credit Agreement). In order to strengthen RUCOM's financial
condition, RUCOM would prepare a plan,satisfactory to the Association, for the
improvement of its existing operations, which would be submitted together with
a timetable for implementation to the Association before December 31, 1978
(Section 4.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
45.       MLA would implement the project's smallholder and research compo-
nents. Existing coffee research and extension services (para. 33) would be
strengthened by the appointment of a Coffee Research Agronomist, whose quali-
fications and experience would be satisfactory to the Association, and two
Zambian Coffee Smallholder Development Officers (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft
Credit Agreement). At least one Coffee Smallholder Development Officer and
the Coffee Research Agronomist will be appointed prior to any disbursement for
smallholder development or research, respectively (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) and
(c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
46.       As this would be the first estate coffee production project in
Zambia, it is essential that RUCOM undertake periodic internal monitoring
and evaluation. Funds would be provided to hire a consultant for about two
weeks each year, to evaluate progress and advise on the next year's planting
(Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Similarly, in view of
the pilot nature of the smallholder coffee development component, MLA would
engage the services of consultants acceptable to the Association, to monitor
and evaluate progress under this component (Section 3.02(a)(i)(B) of the draft
Credit Agreement). MLA and RUCOM would submit quarterly progress reports and
within six months after the Closing Date prepare a Project Completion Report
(Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement and Section 2.05 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Marketing and Pricing
47.       The Government controls coffee production, imports and marketing in
Zambia. Consequently, the level of current consumption does not reflect the
potential of the domestic market. The (estimates of future demand (1130-1830
tons per annum by 1996) are based largely on the Government's pricing policy
and expected changes in household income. The estimates also are in line with
the trends in neighboring Tanzania and Klenya. The domestic market is expected
to fully absorb the project's output (8()0 tons per annum at full development).
Accounts and Audit
48.       Separate accounts for the coffee component of the project would
be kept by RUCOM. The accounts would be audited by auditors acceptable to the
Association and be submitted to the Association within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.02(a) and 4.02(ii) of the draft Project
Agreement).
Environmental Effect
49.       The coffee pulpery at Kateski estate would discharge effluent water.
However, in order to minimize the volume of effluents, a water recirculation
system would be installed and maintained (Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement). The remaining effluent would be used for irrigating maize or else
discharged into seepage pits to prevent any returning to the Lukupa River,
which supplies Kasama town.



- 16 -
Project Costs and Financing
50.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$7.6 million,
excluding taxes and duties (US$0.7 million), of which the foreign exchange
component is about US$3.9 million equivalent or 51 percent. Physical con-
tingencies of 10 percent have been allowed for most items. A 30 percent
contingency has been allowed for the irrigation system, while no contingencies
have been allowed for monitoring and evaluation, or identification and prepa-
ration of future projects. The proposed credit would cover 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs and 56 percent (US$2.1 million) of local costs, net of
taxes. The Government would provide US$0.9 million equivalent, and US$0.7
million would be provided through project generated funds. The overall pro-
portion of the IDA contribution (79 percent of total project costs, net of
taxes and duties), including the financing of local costs, is justified in
view of Zambia's current severe financial problems.
51.       The Government would relend US$4.5 million to RUCOM for a term of 20
years, including a grace period of five years, at an interest rate of not less
than 10 percent per annum (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The proposed rate is consistent with the lending rates of the Development Bank
of Zambia (DBZ) and the commercial banks in Zambia - about 10 percent per
annum. Zambia's rate of inflation was 8.5 percent, 15.8 percent and 17.4
percent in 1974/75, 1975/76 and 1976/77 respectively, and is expected to be
about 13 percent in each of the next three years. As a result of the recent
IMF agreement, interest rates on savings deposits were raised from 6 to 7
percent, on trade bills from 9 to 10 percent and the maximum lending rate to
12 percent.  In order to encourage diversification, however, ceiling rates on
loans to agriculture and industry were set at 9.5 to 10 percent.
52.       During the first three years of the project there would be a gap
estimated at about US$0.5 million between financial requirements and IDA
credit disbursements for the estate coffee production and processing component.
However, as a result of project generation of funds, there would be a com-
pensating surplus during the last two years. It is proposed to finance this
gap through medium-term loans from the local banks. However, the Government
would provide the bridging finance should RUCOM be unable to obtain these
loans (Section 3.06(c) of the draft Credit Agreement). In order to clear
land, purchase tractors and equipment in time so as to avoid loss of one
planting season, and to construct staff houses so as to facilitate timely
recruitment of key staff, retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 is
proposed for expenditures incurred on these items after July 1, 1978.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Procurement would be in accordance with Bank Group guidelines:  (i)
orders for agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment (US$0.5 million)
would be bulked as far as practicable, and procured through local competitive
bidding; (ii) processing machinery (US$0.4 million) would be procured through
international competitive bidding; (iii) construction of buildings (US$0.7
million), houses (US$0.7 million) and irrigation systems (US$0.5 million)



- 17 -
would be procured under local competitive bidding since the contracts would
be too small in any one year to attract international bids, although foreign
firms would be allowed to compete; (iv) land development (US$0.3 million),
estate entrance and access tracks (US$0.1 million), crop inputs (US$0.7
million) would be procured under local competitive bidding; and (v) the small-
holder development component (US$0.6 million) and research component (US$0.6
million) would follow the Government's standard procurement regulations and
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. Draft tender documents
for all contracts expected to cost in excess of US$50,000 would be submitted
to the Association for approval before invitations are issued. Bid analysis
and recommendations for award would be submitted to the Association for
comment before contracts are awarded (SectionsA, B and C of Schedule 3 of
the draft Credit Agreement).
54.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed on the following basis:  (i) 100
percent of the foreign expenditures and 80 percent of the local costs when
purchased locally for vehicles, equipment, and processing machinery; (ii) 100
percent of the foreign expenditures and 80 percent of the local costs for
project studies and preparation, advisers and consultants, training and
expatriate personnel salaries; (iii) 80 percent of local expenditures for
estate development costs; (iv) 80 percent of local costs for crop inputs;
(v) 100 percent of all expenditures with regard to smallholder development;
and (vi) 100 percent of all expenditures for the coffee research component.
Disbursements against vehicles, equipment, machinery, and civil works by contracts
would be fully documented. Disbursements under (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and
(vi) would be made against certificates of expenditures. The documentation
for these items would not be submitted to the Association, but would be
retained by the Borrower for inspection by Bank Group review missions.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
55.       The most important quantifiable benefit of the coffee production
component would be the incremental production, estimated at about 800 tons,
of clean coffee per annum. By reducing coffee imports, foreign exchange
savings estimated at about US$2.2 million per annum would be possible.
In addition, the project would produce 2,000 tons of maize per annum, an
estimated US$0.2 million per annum in foreign exchange. The project would
benefit about 600 smallholder farm families in the Northern Province by
increasing their real incomes and raising their standard of living and would
provide yearly employment for about 64 skilled and semi-skilled staff and
about 900 unskilled workers. The proposed project also would develop a sound
technical and financial basis for progressive smallholder and estate coffee
production in Zambia. The technical assistance component would help the
Government develop antI strengthen its capabilities for project identification,
preparation and execution, thus contributing to the country's diversification
and capacity to effectively use foreign assistance.
56.       Excluding the smallholder coffee and research components and the
identification and preparation of future projects (about 20 percent of total
project costs), and after shadow pricing labor and foreign exchange, the



- 18 -
economic return of the project is estimated at 21 percent over twenty-five
years. The benefits of the smallholder component could not be quantified
because of its pilot nature, nor the benefits of coffee research and project
identification since their benefits will only be realized in future projects.
With a 10 percent increase in costs or reduction in benefits, the economic
return would fall to 18 percent or, if both events occurred simultaneously,
to 14 percent. The financial rate of return, however, is only 14 percent.
57.       The major risks to the project include a slower than planned rate
of implementation if technical assistance required for the project is not
obtained on schedule. However, arrangements have already been initiated for
the early recruitment of suitable key staff. Moreover, the increase in coffee
production has been estimated assuming some delays in implementation. Sec-
ondly, as commercial coffee production is not yet well established in Zambia,
there is a degree of uncertainty concerning attainment of the projected pro-
duction. However, although the potential for high yields has been demonstrated
at a research station adjacent to the project area, the yields expected to be
realized have been estimated at less than half of the technical potential.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and RUCOM, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
60.       Conditions for effectiveness of the credit would be (i) execution
of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association between the
Borrower and RUCOM (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement); and
(ii) the appointment of the Project/Plantation Manager and the Engineering
Manager (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
61.       Appointment of one Smallholder Coffee Development Officer and the
Coffee Research Agronomist would be a condition for disbursement under the
smallholder coffee development and research components, respectively (para.
4(b) and (c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Credit Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 30, 1978



- 20-                                                 ANNEX I
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ZAMBIA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            752.6                                                    SAW         SAWE      NEXT RIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     350.0                                 HDST RiCENr      GEOGRAPRIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 A  ESTIMATE /         REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  190.0       310.0      450.0           223.6       432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..       495.0     504.0             86.7      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          3.2         4.3       5.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 20.0         30.0       36.3            13.6        24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         4.0         6.0        7.0            18.4        42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       9.0        12.0       15.0            53.6        95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.0 If,&   45.8      46.5             44.4       44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                         51.0 /f.s,h 51.9       50.9             52.7       52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.0 /f.m.h  2.3       2.6              2.8         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         2.9        2.9             2.6         2.7         2.5
URBAN                                ..        13.6 /i    6.3              5.8         8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.5        49.7      51.5             46.9        42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.1        20.9       20.3            20.6        12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.3        3.4             3.1         3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..             2.5        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             109.3       100.0      114.3            94.2       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    87.0        88.0      89.0             90.1        99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           63.0        64.0       58.8            55.2        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        25.0 Li   16.5             17.1        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..           ..        ..              ..         7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.5         43.5       44.5            43.7        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..         ..           138.4        82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        37.0       42.0            22.4        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..        70.0      86.0             66.3        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                ..        22.0       16.0            10.4        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *         16.0       42.0            23.9        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..        12.0       87.0            70.3        69.5        45.4
RURAL                                ..        18.0       16.0            14.2        25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          12860.0      8110.0         ..         21757.5      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      9950.0 /f   2430.0         ..          3473.8      2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             350.0 /f    310.0         ..           645.4       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                ..       340.0 /k      ..           172.9       278.4       229.6
RURAL                                ..       330.0 /k      ..          1292.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER hOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             19.2       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZg OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         4.4         ..             4.9          ..         5.2
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..             5.0          ..         5.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..             4.7          ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.6         ..              ..          ..          2.0
URBAN                                ..         2.6         ..              ..         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                ..         2.6         ..              ..          ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                *-           *-        *-               *-       28.3        64.1
URBAN                              27.5           ..        ..               ..         ..        67.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       10.3         34.1



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EANDIA                                                /a
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960 /      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Ab     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 48.0 A      70.0      88.0            52.1       75.8        99.8
FEMALE               38.0        64.0      86.0            37.6       67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  1.0        13.0      14.0             8.0       17.7        33.8
FEMALE                1.0         8.0       9.0             5.0       12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL. (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 28.0        3.0       8.6             7.2        7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           50.0        47.0      48.0            43.2       34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         14.0        21.0      21.0            22.8       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.5 /f     47.3        ..            20.3       63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        14.0      18.0             3.9        7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         9.0 °1     18.0      21.0            40.1       71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          *-         4.0       5.0             2.2       14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  7.0        13.0      22.0             3.9       16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..             1.2        1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         ..      1160.0    1310.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  33.7        33.0      32.5            32.6       28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             78.7        72.8      52.0            73.3       54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 7.0         8.8        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               40.4        38.9      37.6            42.0       37.8        33.8
MALE                                54.1        52.7      51.3            54.8       50.3        48.1
FEMALE                              26.9        25.3      24.2            27.3       20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               ..          ..       1.8             1.2        1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.7          ..      23.0            25.7       19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2          ..      63.0            55.1       48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.4          ..       3.8             5.8        5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0          ..      10.1            14.5       15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     175.0           108.8      155.9       191.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     125.0            74.1       97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LLEVEL (USa PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           124.4      143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..     125.0            59.6       87.3       197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      25.0            26.8       22.9        19.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      70.0            47.6       36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Lower Middle Income  ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /f 1963; IA African population; /h 15-59 years and 60 and
over respectively;  Li  1965-69;  Li  1965; /k  1967; LI Data for Rhodesia and Malawi included.
September, 1978



- 22 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Unh   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geometric mea.ns  excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the cost
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicatore depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
Sroup averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural are  used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital sod ro-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments pernanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not Included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and nedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - CNP per capita astimates at current mrket prices,                      cal centers not permanencly staffed by a physician (hut by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of adnissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of coercial energy                         from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thertal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average slote of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and total-                  -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average o  two en -year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas nay affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-pernanent structures and
Per  s. kmn  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the prinary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
oid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since  ore pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 far most recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (por thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Coxputed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mst recent estimate.                              vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - AverAge number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        eocluded.
peoific fertility ratea; uually five-year averages ending in 1960,                      Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other progr-as which operate independently
Facily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual nmber of                            or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Fanily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
carried women of child-bearing age (15-64 years) who use birth-control                 Adult lit.racy rats (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food Production Per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                       seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; dats for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
qairexents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
eel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers In coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circulation  (per thousand population) - Shows the average circola-
capita net supply of food per day   Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a mini.o. allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                      be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
of aninal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the nunber of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including adnissions to drive-in cinenas and nobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
PAl in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including er-ed
Child (sees 1-4) mrtality rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths per chous-                     forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.    Dfini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting end fishing
Life expectancy at birth (Years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
renaiming at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant nortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  Fenale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are ILOs adjusted participation rates reflecting age-sew
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       strocrure of the population, ond long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
Io an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural aress reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                        of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rutr             -
rural - Nomber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a min,ir'
disposal as percentages of their reepactive populations.  Excreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food reqoircoents is or'
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatnent, of human excrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                      Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per  apita) - urban acd ra
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative povecty income Ivel is that income level less than one-third
Population per phvsician - Population divided by number of practicing                         per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban ad rura -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who arc euLer "aboolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assbstaot nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Departtent



ANNEX I
- 23 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1965 -10            190 -76
GNP at Market Prices           2,335          100.0                          2.6                 2.9
Gross Domestic Investment         630          27.0                          8.4                -5.7
Gross National Saving            402           17.2                          9.4                 0.3
Current Account Balance         -228            9.8
Exports of Goods, NFS             963          41.2                          2.3                 2.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          1,008          43.2                           9.1               -7.1-
':TPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                    Labor Force-/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.  -fi                     Mln. %s-
Agriculture                      297        10.0                 0.687       52.0                     432        19.3
Industry                       1,704        57.6                 0.198       15.0                   8,606       384.2
Services                         958        32.4                 0.337       25.5                   2,843       126.9
Unallocated                       .           .                  0.099        7.5                      .       _
Total/Average          2,959       100.0                 1,321      100.0                   2,940       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                             2/
General Government_                               Central Government
(__ MI ;)           % of GDP                    (Rwacha Mln.)         % Of GDP
1977       1977         l911- 76
Current Receipts             )                                                            4Y9          26            27
Current Expenditure          )                                                            599          32            27
Current Surplus              )                                                            -1-00         6             0
Capital Expenditures         )                                                            131           7            10
External Assistance (net)  )                                                               30           2              2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1965      1970      1972     1974      1975      1976      1977
(MillioniK outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   107.6    355.6    341.0    440.7    492.9    623.5    697.8
Bank credit to Public Sector            -88.7   -163.8    147.2       78.1    517.8    571.1    790.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/         42.3    136.9    165.0    335.8    392.9    394.1    470.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        15.1      27.8      25.5     23.1      31.6      34.8      36.8
General Price Index (1970 = 100)         74.2    100.0    111.7    128.8    141.7    168.2    201.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Gerleral Price Index                      8.2       2.6       5.4      8.4      10.0      18.7      20.0
Bank credit to Public Sector               .         .     691.4    -61.9    306.9        79./      38.4
Bank credit to Private Sector 3/           .       21.9     -9.7      92.1      17.0       0.3      19.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocate" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/  Figures do not differ significantly from "Central Government".
3/ Includes parastatal organizations.
not available
not applicable
November 1, 1978
EACPI



- 24-                               ANNEX I
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-76)
1976     1977                                                           US S Mln    Z
(Millions USS)
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,141       963                         Copper                             1,019.6  93.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           980    1007                           Lead, Zinc, Cobalt                     55.3   5.0
Resource Gap (deficit 5 -)    161        -44                          All other commodities              1,097.0 100.0
Factor Payments (net)          -111     -100
Net Transfers                  -108       -84
Balnace on Current Account      -58     -228
Direct Foreign Investment       *-                                  EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing 'Public)
Disbursements                270      244                                                                    US $ Mln
Amortization                  45      120
Subtotal                     225      124                          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             1,307.8
Capital Grants                   .         .                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 ..
Other Capital (net)             145      200                          Total outstanding & Disbursed             1,3U7.8
Other items n.e.i              -368     -169
Increase in Reserves (+)       -56       -74                        DEBT SERVICE RATIO (%)  /1977
Gross Reserves (end year)       100        74                                                                    =9-
Net Reserves   (end year)    -145       -227                           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             19.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                ..
R1TE OF EXCHANGR                                                       Total outstanding & Disbursed             19.4
Before February 1973            March 1978
US$1.00 = Kwacha 0.714       SDR1 o K1.0243
K1.00 = US$1.40              Kl - SDRO.9763             IBRD/IDA LENDING, ( r7ntafmh.,-       107. .N.f1    T7AtL
February 1973 to July 1976    Annual  Averages                                                         IBRD         IDA
US$1.00 = IKwacha 0.643      1976   K1 - US$1,4019
Kl.O0 = US$1.554           1977   Kl - US$1.2675           Outstanding & Disbursed                306.4
Ju-y 1976 to March 1978                           iUndisbursed                           128.7        11.3
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         435.1        11.3
SDR1 = KO.922
Kl = SDR1.085
1/ Ratio of estimated Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services in 1976.
not available
not applicable
November 1, 1978
EACPI



- 25 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(September 30, 1978)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
Loan   Credit
No.    No.    Year   Borrower             Purpose          Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
12     -    fully disbursed                             185.2    -          -
592     -    1969   Zambia               Education         17.4    -        1.2
645     -    1969   Zambia               Education          5.3    -        0.6
701-2   -    1974   Kariba North         Power Station
Bank Company                         42.1    -        1.4
882     -    1973   Zambia               Integrated Fam-
ily Farming      11.5    -        7.1
900     -    1973   Zambia               Education         33.0    -       15.2
919     -    1973   Zambia Electri-   Hydroelectric
city Supply Corp. Power             115.0    -       13.0
1057     -    1974   Zambia               Urban Develop-
ment             20.0    -         8.6
1131     -    1975   Posts & Tele.        Telecommuni-
Corps.             cations           32.0    -       27.0
1210     -    1976   Development Bank  Development
of Zambia          Finance Co.       15.0    -       14.2
1356     -    1977   Zambia               Education         13.3    -       13.1
1424     -    1977   Zambia               Industrial
Forestry         16.8    -       16.0
15661/ 7981/  1978   Zambia               Third Highway   11.3   11.3    22.6
Total                               517.9   11.3   140.0
of which has been repaid          75.4    -
Total now outstanding               442.5   11.3
Amounts sold                 49.6
of which has been repaid 42.2    7.4    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA 2/    435.1   11.3
of which is undisbursed          128.7   11.3    140.0
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
September 30, 1978
Investment                                                   US$ million equivalent
No.     Year                       Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
:16 ZA      1972  Zambia Bata Shoe  Shoe manufacturing  0.85    0.23            1.08
Co. Ltd.
250 ZA       1973  Zambia Bata Shoe  Shoe manufacturing  1.20            -       1.20
Co. Ltd.            and tannery
307 ZA       1975  Century Packages  Packaging materials 0.78    0.21            0.99
Ltd.
324 ZA       1976  Development Bank  Development Finance   -           0.54      0.54
of Zambia           Co.
394 ZA       1978  Century Packages  Packaging materials 0.10            -       0.10
Ltd.
Total gross commitments                          2.93    0.98       3.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                           1.93       -       1.93
Total now held by IFC                            1.00    0.98       1.98
_         -=         _
Total undisbursed                                0.10       -       0.10



- 27 -
ANNEX II
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 592-ZA First Education Project: US$17.4 million loan of
April 11, 1969, Effective Date: July 15, 1969;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Due to prolonged negotiations with architectural consultants,
budgetary constraints in both 1972 and 1977 resulting from low copper prices,
poor management in the early stages of project implementation, and more
recently shortages of construction materials and financial difficulties of
several major contractors, the project is about four and a half years behind
schedule. Latest estimates indicate an increase in cost of about 17 percent
which is manageable. Educational objectives in quantitative terms are being
met, while qualitative changes of content of education have not yet been
achieved. Some problems with respect to defects in materials used in con-
struction of project secondary schools have recently emerged and are being
closely monitored.
Loan No. 645-ZA      Second Education Project:  US$5.3 million loan of
November 20, 1969; Effective Date: May 5, 1970;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The project as originally approved has been completed satisfactorily
with the exception of finalization of accounting. Due to contributions of
instructional equipment by bilateral donor agencies, savings in the loan
proceeds of about US$1.0 million were realized. As a result, the Government
requested an amendment, which was approved by the Bank, to the Loan Agreement
for additional work at the University to utilize these savings and also enable
the postponement of the Closing Date by two years to March 31, 1978. However,
delays in the procurement of furniture and equipment for the project items
included in the amendment and in the transfer of farm lands to the University
necessitated a further extension of the Closing Date to March 31, 1979.
Loan No. 701-ZA      Kariba North Hydroelectric Project:  US$82.1 million loans
of July 29, 1970 and August 16, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The power station has been in full operation since May 1977.
Recently the thrust bearings of two of the four 150-MW units failed, and are
undergoing repair; one is still under the manufacturer's guarantee, while the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
other is covered by insurance. The two units are expected to be in operation
again shortly. The Central African Power Corporation (CAPC) is fully respon-
sible for operation of the power station. Staffing of the power station was
initially problematic but an adequate number of experienced staff were
recruited and are now at site. A project completion report is being prepared.
Loan No. 882-ZA      Integrated Family Farming Project:  US$11.5 Million loan of
February 28, 1973; Effective Date: July 26, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is experiencing difficulties. Management at head-
quarters and scheme level is unsatisfactory. Slower than expected recruitment
of project farmers, together with inflation, have precipitated sharp increases
in settlement cost per farmer. These developments are threatening the eco-
nomic viability of the project. However, because of satisfactory yields
(tobacco and maize) and government subsidies, financial returns to farmers are
good. In addition to visiting consultants, the Tobacco Management Board of
Zambia (TBZ) has recently selected a new Project Manager to replace the one
who resigned in November 1976. However, two expatriate staff, the Extension/
Training Officer and the Financial Controller, may soon leave Zambia if TBZ's
efforts to gain government approval to increase their remuneration are not
successful. It is hoped that ODM would agree to top up their salaries. The
Bank is following this matter closely.
Loan No. 900-ZA      Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million loan of
June 6, 1973; Effective Date:  August 9, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Project implementation is generally proceeding satisfactorily. The
Government's decision to locate the agricultural campus in Solwezi, which in
effect deleted the construction and equipping of a Faculty of Agricultural
Sciences at the Lusaka campus, as well as the devaluation of the Kwacha and
savings from the equipment category, have given rise to expected savings of
about K 4 million. Requests have been made by the Government of Zambia for
the utilization of some of these savings in other areas. The project is
expected to be completed by March 1979, six months earlier than the closing
date.
Loan No. 919-ZA      Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115.0 million
loan of July 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were commis-
sioned in mid-1977. Construction of the main dam has been completed and the
reservoir filled. The project is expected to be completed within the
appraisal cost estimates. Power availability has not been up to expectations
because of unexpected breakdowns at the power station, but the problems are
now under control. Appropriate maintenance procedures also are being intro-
duced. The Zambia Electricity Supply Corporationr's(ZESCO) financial perfor-
mance has not been satisfactory, but an appropriate tariff increase is now



29
ANNEX II
under consideration. Largely because of the economic recession affecting
Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a shortage of spare parts and the depar-
ture of some expatriate staff.
Loan No. 1057-ZA    Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services Project:
US$20.0 million loan of December 6, 1974; Effectiveness
Date: April 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project is slower than anticipated because
of delays in land acquisition and difficulties in providing construction
materials and spare parts due to Zambia's foreign exchange shortage.  Upgrad-
ing of the first major squatter settlement in Chawama has been completed, and
construction and improvement of houses is progressing satisfactorily. Provi-
sion of services in various new sites is in full swing and construction of
houses in these sites should start by early 1979. At present, arrears
in building materials loans are very high but Government is taking appropriate
measures to reduce these to a realistic level.
Loan No. 1131-ZA    Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project procurement and execution are approximately one year behind
schedule but recently have been proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
switching equipment and microwave and radio systems have been awarded.
Implementation, however, may slowdown considerably as a result of government
budgetary constraints. An increase in telecommunications tariffs has been
approved by Government, and arrears and delays in billing have been reduced.
Implementation of the financial/management consultants report is proceeding
satisfactorily. Implementation of the initial capitalization of the recently
formed Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, however, still remains to be
completed.
Loan No. 1210-ZA    Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million loan of
February 18, 1976; Effective Date: April 23, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The loan has been committed to the extent of about US$5.5 million
equivalent for a number of projects in various industries such as chemicals,
textiles, packaging, agriculture and food processing. The low level of
commitments is mainly due to a slower pace of operations than anticipated at
appraisal, due to the serious economic recession in the country.
Loan No. 1356-ZA    Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million loan of
January 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project has made a very good start with two of its components
( the Educational Services Center and the Evelyn Hone College) progressing
ahead of schedule. Budgetary constraints in 1977 have affected procurement
of equipment as well as the overall progress of the project.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1424-ZA    Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million loan
of May 12, 1977; Effective Date: November 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation has started well despite some problems
with staffing, equipment and spare parts. Planting targets are being met very
well and while there are some handicaps caused by a lack of equipment in good
running order, no serious difficulties have yet been encountered.
Loan No. 1566-ZA
and
Credit 798-ZA Third Highway Project: US$22.5 million (US$11.25 million
loan and US$11.25 million credit) of June 27, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan and credit are expected to become effective by December 29,
1978.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
1.   Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare               7 months
(b)  Prepared by                         Government with the assistance of
RMEA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA         October 1976
(d)  First IDA Mission                   March 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission departure         March 1978
(f)  Negotiations                        October 30 - November 3, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness       March 31, 1979
2.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
3.   Special Conditions of the Project
(a) Legal title to the Ngoli Estate would be transferred
to RUCOM Industries Ltd. by not later than December 31,
1979 (para. 30);
(b) RUCOM would be given a permanent permit by August 31, 1979
to divert water from the Lukupa River for the Kateshi
Estate (para. 39);
(c) Plans for smallholder coffee development in the Northwestern
Province would be submitted to the Association for approval
in advance of their execution (para. 41);
(d) The positions of Project/Plantation Manager, Engineering
Manager and Coffee Research Agronomist would be filled
with individuals recruited internationally whose qualifica-
tions and experience are satisfactory to the Association,
and counterparts to the Project and Engineering Managers
would be employed (paras. 43 and 45);
(e) The Government would increase its equity participation
in RUCOM by US$1.6 million equivalent (para. 44);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
(f) RUCOM would prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Association,
for the improvement of its existing line of operations
which would be submitted to the Association together with an
indicative timetable for its implementation before December
31, 1978 (para. 44);
(g) RUCOM would not permit its (i) consolidated long-term
debt to exceed more than three times its consolidated net
worth; (ii) its current assets/current liabilities ratio
to fall below 1.0 (para. 44);
(h) MLA and RUCOM would provide quarterly progress reports and
also a Project Completion Report within six months of the
Closing Date (para. 46);
(i)  MLA would engage the services of consultants acceptable to
the Association to assist in the monitoring and evaluation
of the smallholder component (para. 46);
(j) RUCOM would comply with agreed accounting and auditing
procedures (para. 48);
(k) RUCOM Industries Ltd. would ensure that the coffee pulpery at
Kateshi Estate would have a water recirculation system which
would minimize the volume of effluent water; and that no water
from the pulpery would be returned to the river which supplies
Kasama town (para. 49);
(1) The Government would relend US$4.5 million of the proceeds
of the IDA credit to RUCOM (para. 51);
(m)  In the event RUCOM cannot secure medium-term loans, the
Government would provide it with bridging finance (para. 52);
(n) Procurement would be in accordance with agreed procedures
(para. 53);
(o) The conditions of credit effectiveness would be (a) the
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to
the Association, between the Borrower and RUCOM Industries
Ltd.; and (b) the appointment of two key staff -- the Project/
Plantation Manager and the Engineering Manager (paras. 43 and
60); and
(p) As a condition for disbursement, at least one Zambian
Smallholder Coffee Development Officer and the Research
Agronomist would be appointed prior to the commencement of
their respective components (Smallholder Development and
Coffee Research) (paras. 45 and 61).



R E PUB LIC        OF       ZAIRE
L                       ,.                                               o -.  ______
m    ~ ~ ~~v 
0  CD rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Rz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~    -
zg~~~~~~~~~/IA
OC'4 



