Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2173a-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
November 15, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                               Kwacha (K)
US$1.00                                     K 0.83 1/
K 1.00                                      US$1.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2                    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )   =                0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)                        2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBC       -  Consumer Buying Corporation
IDZ       -  Intensive Development Zone
INDECO    -  Industrial Development Corporation
LINTCO    -  Cotton Parastatal
MI        - Ministry of Industry
MLA       -  Ministry of Lands and Agriculture
NAMBoard  -  National Agricultural Marketing Board
NIEC      -  National Import and Export Corporation
OSZ       -  Overseas Services Zambia, Ltd.
RDC       - Rural Development Corporation
RUCOM     -  Rucom Industries, Ltd.
TBZ       -  Tobacco Board of Zambia
ZIMCO     -  Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZAMHORT   -  Zambia Horticultural Parastatal
FISCAL YEAR
Government of        January 1 - December 31
Zambia
Rucom                April 1 - March 31
1/   On March 17, 1978, the Kwacha was devalued by 10 percent in terms of the
SDR. The exchange rate quoted is used throughout this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR ........................   1
A.  Background .......................                                1
B.   Performance and Strategy .....          .......................   2
C.   Agricultural Services ...................      ............    3
D.   Bank's Past Activities . ............................ .   4
II.   THE COFFEE SUB-SECTOR ....................................   4
A.  Production .......................                                6
B.   Coffee Extension and Research              .......................   6
C.   Processing and Marketing ............................           7
D.   Coffee Development Problems and Potential ...........           7
III.   RUCOM INDUSTRIES LIMITED (RUCOM) .....         ....................   8
A.   Background . .   ............. ..........................       8
B. Management and Organization               . . .                   9
C.   Finances                                                       10
IV. THE PROJECT    ..11
A. Project Objectives                 ..11
B.   Project Area .....................11
C. General Description                 ....12
D.  Detailed Features                   ........                    14
E. Project Costs                   ....18
F. Financing                    ....20
G. Procurement                   ....21
H. Disbursement                   ....22
£                      I.   Accounts, Audit ........         ....................  23
V.   COFFEE PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING TECHNOLOGY .             ..         24
A.   Cul-tural Practices for Estate Coffee Production               24
B.   Coffee Processing Technology .           .                     26
C.   Maize Cultivation for Mulch Production   .          .26
D.   Smallholder Coffee Production Methods              . .27
E. Yields....                                                       28
F. Environmental Effects                 .          ..30
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                    .....                        30
A. Management and Staffing...                                       30
B.   Implementation and Reporting                   ...          .  31
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation               ....32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VII.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICING .....   ................... 32
A.  Domestic Markets and Prices for Coffee .............. 32
B.  Prospects for Coffee Exports and Prices ............. 35
C.  Maize Production, Marketing and Pricing ............ . 36
VIII.   FINANCIAL RESULTS      ........................................  36
A.  Financial Analysis ....................................  36
B.  Project Financial Projections .................... ... 37
C.  Government Budget and Foreign Exchange      . .    38
D.  Smallholder Farmers' Benefits .................... ... 39
IX.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......... ............ 39
A.  Project Benefits .......     .............................  39
B.  Economic Rate of Return ............................. 40
C.  Sensitivity Analysis and Risks .....     ................. 40
X.  ASSURANCES OBTAINED ........     .............................. 41
ANNEX 1 - Supporting Tables and Charts
Tables
1   Summary of Project Costs
2   Production, Imports and Apparent Consumption
3   RUCOM Industries:  Income Statement
4   RUCOM Industries:  Balance Sheet
5   RUCOM Industries:  Cash Flow
6   Government Cash Flow
7   Foreign Exchange Cash Flow
8   Smallholder Farm Budget
9   Summary of Project Economic Costs and Benefits
Charts
IBRD 19229 - RUCOM Industries: Structure, Organization and Proposed
Coffee Division
IBRD 19230 - Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 2 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 13623 - Project Area - Rainfall
IBRD 13624 - Population Density
This report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission to Zambia in
March/April 1978, comprising of Messrs. P.M. Tamboli and P.R.P. Santos (IDA)
and H. W. Mitchell (Consultant).



I. THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      The Republic of Zambia is situated in the center of the southern
half of Africa. It is land-locked, being surrounded by Rhodesia, Mozambique,
Malawi, Tanzania, Zaire, Angola, Namibia and Botswana.  Zambia covers an
area of 750,000 square kilometers and has a population of about 5 million
people which is increasing at an annual rate of about 3%. More than one third
of the population lives in towns and there is urban unemployment. While 1976
GNP per capita has been estimated at US$440, per capita income in urban areas
is over three times that in rural areas, providing a powerful incentive for
migration.
1.02      Over the past decade, real output grew at a rate of only 2.8% per
annum owing to relative stagnation in mining, agriculture and other sectors.
Copper mining occupies a predominant position and has been the mainstay of the
Zambian economy since Independence. For a number of years, copper mining
contributed between 30% and 40% GDP, about 45% of Government revenue and about
95% of total foreign exchange earnings. As a result of the steep decline in
copper prices, Zambia has incurred massive balance of payment deficits begin-
ning in 19.75. From a level of K 898 million in 1974, exports fell to K 523
million in 1975, rising to K 752 million in 1976 and K 704 million in 1977.
Despite successful Government efforts to hold the line on the value of goods
imported during 1975-1977 through import restrictions, current account
deficits of K 611 million, K 58 million and K 228 million were registered
during the three years 1975-1977, respectively. Efforts to diversify the
economy have met with little success.
1.03      The agricultural sector is characterized by its dualism.  At one
extreme are about 600,000 smallholder subsistence farmers, while at the
other extreme are large state farms and an economically important group of
about 800 commercial farmers. In between are a group of Zambian large scale
"emergent farmers". The commercial farmers are located on State Land, gen-
erally oni fairly good land, close to the line-of-rail, 1/ and produce cereals,
beef, dairy products and poultry for the urban market or tobacco i-or export.
The emergent farmers have smaller holdings but are partially mechanized.
They are located close to the line-of-rail. It is estimated that over 55% of
the value of marketed domestic production is derived from commercial and
emergent farmers. Of the smallholders, about half grow only their own sub-
sistence while others produce about three or four times their family needs
using hand tools and traditional methods. The major products are maize,
cotton, groundnuts, tobacco and beef.
1/   The Zambia Railway extends 827 km from the Victoria Falls Bridge on the
Rhodesian border to the copper belt, where it links up via Zaire to the
Bengula Railway, and on to the port of Lobito in Angola.



-2-
1.04      The agricultural sector accounts for about 13 percent of GDP and
provides the means of livelihood for 60 percent of the Zambian population.
Despite ample land resources for crop and livestock development, the con-
tribution of the agricultural sector to increasing welfare, diversifying
the economy and bridging the rural-urban gap has been below potential. Over
the past decade, output growth has barely exceeded population growth, result-
ing in a continuing and increasing reliance on imported food and agricultural
raw material, most of which Zambia could produce at home; about 25% of the
marketed food is imported. The poor performance until 1975 of this sector is
attributed mainly to the fact that until recently, Government policy did not
give the sector the priority it deserved.  To keep food prices low, agricul-
tural producer prices were not allowed to rise as rapidly as the prices of
modern sector goods, turning the domestic terms of trade against agriculture,
depressing farmers' real incomes and discouraging production. Moreover, the
Government did not devote sufficient resources to the agricultural sector and
its investment suffered from inadequate planning and implementation, largely
because of a shortage of qualified personnel and weak organization.
B. Performance and Strategy
1.05      The performance of the agricultural sector has picked up consider-
ably during the past three years: sectoral value added grew by 7.2% in 1975,
5.8% in 1976, and 0.8% in 1977; spurred on by sharp increases in agricultural
producer prices together with generally favorable weather conditions, partic-
ularly large output increases were obtained in maize, groundnuts, cotton,
wheat and rice.
1.06      Zambia's objectives for its agricultural and rural development are
(a) achieving a more even distribution of real income by redressing the imbal-
ance of social and economic opportunities which favor urban workers over
rural dwellers; (b) attaining self-sufficiency in food stuffs and industrial
crops; and (c) diversifying the economy and widening the export base by
producing and exporting agricultural surpluses. The report of the Bank's
Agricultural and Rural Sector Survey (Report No. 841a-ZA, October 20, 1975)
suggested a two-pronged strategy based on (a) transforming the rural sector by
focusing on public investment and services in areas of high growth potential;
and (b) obtaining more immediate increases in output through improved pricing
policies and better marketing.  The Government has responded positively to a
number of the report recommendations, notably pricing.
1.07      The Government now fully recognizes the importance of improving
the efficiency and output of this sector, and the need to maintain adequate
production incentives for farmers has been increasingly emphasized. Since
the 1974/1975 growing season, agricultural producer prices have been raised
significantly, e.g., maize 58%, cotton 15%, groundnuts 88%, wheat 67%, sun-
flower seeds 46%, and soybeans 63%. These increases have substantially
raised production incentives for farmers. The Government is committed to
reviewing all producer prices annually in line with increases in domestic



-3-
production costs, and to announcing new prices well in advance of the growing
season.
1.08      Despite budgetary stringency, the Government is increasing investm-
ent in the agricultural sector.  While total budgetary investment will de-
cline between 1977 and 1978, investment in agriculture will increase by over
40%, increasing its share in the total from 12.8% to 17.9%. Investment by
the MLA will cover: extension; land use; tsetse control services; training
institutions; agricultural research; cooperatives and marketing and in addi-
tion, a number of crop and livestock projects.
1.09      The Third National Development Plan (TNDP), which is scheduled to
be launched by mid-1979, is expected to give priority to rural development
in general and to increased agricultural production in particular. It will
focus on achieving higher levels of and self-sufficiency in staple foods and
the provision of adequate supplies of raw material for domestic agro-based
industries. In addition, the export potential of certain crops e.g. tobacco,
cotton, sugar, rice, coffee and a wide range of fruits and vegetables is to
be exploited.
C. Agricultural Services
1.10      Agriculture is serviced almost entirely by Government or quasi-
Government organizations, the main ones being the Ministry of Lands and Agri-
culture (MLA), and its parastatals, the National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMBoard), LINTCO (cotton parastatal) and the Rural Development Corporation
(RDC). The Ministry of Industry (MI) and the Industrial Development Corpo-
ration (INDECO) also have subsidiaries servicing the agricultural sector
including the National Milling Company (stock feeds), Kabwe Industrial Fabrics
(gunny bags) and RUCOM Industries, Ltd. (see chapter III).  There is also a
Land-Clearing Unit within MLA which takes contract work for the public and
private sectors at reasonable rates.  A few services remain private e.g. some
of the machinery and equipment suppliers, and the suppliers of agricultural
chemicals.
1.11      Trained manpower remains a scarce resource in Zambia.  A unit in
the MLA oversees the national training institutions and liaises with farm
colleges.  The School of Agriculture of the University of Zambia produces
graduates, the National Resources Development College and three farm colleges
with joint Government/Church sponsorship produce diplomates. The Government
also runs farmer training institutes and centers. The ratio of extension
staff to farmers is currently 1:800. A constrained budget and inadequate
transport hinders the effectiveness of the extension program. The research
branch in MLA with its headquarters at Mount Makulu, has 15 specialist sec-
tions. Generally, the research branch has produced abundant technical
information on various crops over the years.



-4-
D. Bank's Past Activities
1.12      Agriculture and rural development remain the most difficult areas,
because of the lack of suitable policies and absence of effective programs.
However, the Bank made five loans during 1968-77, two for industrial forestry
plantations, and one each for livestock, commercial crops, and integrated
family farming. The livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 at the Government's
request because of problems due mainly to adverse pricing policies and poor
management. The first industrial forestry project was well executed, and was
completed almost a year ahead of schedule. The second industrial forestry proj-
ect has had a good start. The commercial crops project was completed but was
not very successful. Implementation of the integrated family farming project
is still underway, but the project is experiencing managerial difficulties
which are being overcome gradually. The project is under close review. Two
projects prepared with Bank assistance were withdrawn in 1975 because of
inadequate implementing capacity. Bank assistance in this sector, however,
is not just limited to agricultural projects as such, the fourth education
project for instance has a major component for training farmers and government
agricultural technicians. To help identify and break constraints, the Bank
at the Government's request, undertook a rural sector survey in 1975. The
report has stimulated wide discussions about agriculture and rural development
at all levels of government and is playing an important part in the Zambian -
Bank dialogue.
II. THE COFFEE SUB-SECTOR
A. Production
2.01      Coffee production in Zambia is almost exclusively confined to
Northern Province, the site of this Project. Although production is low, it
has increased from less than a ton in 1964 to about 66 tons in 1977 (52 tons
from Ngoli Estate; 10 tons from Misamfu Coffee Research Station; and 4 tons
from smallholders). All the coffee produced in the country is used for
domestic consumption. The production, import and apparent consumption
are summarized in Table 2.
Estate Coffee Production
2.02      Ngoli Estate:  Presently the major coffee production (about 52
tons) comes from Ngoli Estate. This estate, which is situated 56 km north of
Kasama (see map), at an altitude of about 1,500 m, has a total area of 548 ha
of which 50 ha have been planted with irrigated coffee. Development of the
estate was started in 1967, and management was recently taken over by RUCOM.
Accordingly, the Government has agreed to transfer the legal title to the
estate to RUCOM by December 31, 1979. A coffee pulpery has been established
on the estate. Since its inception, production at the estate has suffered



considerably due to poor management and shortage of funds. Production of
clean coffee in the last three seasons 1975-1977 was 14, 19 and 51 tons,
respectively, but the heavy crop of 1977, combined with inadequate fertilizer
application and poor control of rust, has caused overbearing dieback, which
will result in a reduced crop in 1978. This estate will be assisted under
the Project.
2.03      Kateshi Estate:  In 1976, RUCOM Industries Ltd. embarked on a
six-year estate coffee development program on about 120 ha at Kateshi. This
estate is 35 km north of Kasama at an altitude of about 1,400 m and has
a total area of about 2,333 ha of which 14 ha have been planted with coffee
and 38 ha with maize.  A coffee nursery has been established containing about
140,000 SL 34 coffee seedlings for transplanting in December 1978. The
estate is not yet in production. Its further development forms the major part
of this Project.
Smallholder Coffee Production
2.04      Arabica coffee was first introduced into Zambia before 1914-1918,
when seeds of the Blue Mountain cultivar were introduced from Jamaica and
planted at Chilanga, near Lusaka. About 160 ha of coffee were grown in 1933,
but growth gradually declined, and reached zero during the 1939-45 period.
Interest in coffee revived when prices rose to high levels in the 1950's, and
coffee has been grown by a limited number of smallholders of the Northern
Province in the districts of Kasama, Isoka, Chinsali, Mpika, Mbala and
Mporokoso. Most of the coffee is not irrigated. Due to a lack of credit and
input supply as well as inadequate marketing and extension services, small-
holder coffee production has not flourished.
2.05      In 1974, MLA launched a smallholder coffee production scheme under
the Intensive Development Zone (IDZ) Program, with Danish technical assistance
in Isoka district in the Northern Province. There are now 149 coffee growers
in the area (48 with irrigated coffee). Each grower was allocated 0.4 ha of
land of which 0.1 ha was to be planted with coffee each year over a four year
period. Since the pumping system has been inoperative most of the time,
virtually all of the coffee has been grown under non-irrigated conditions.
Improvements have been made to the pumping installation and funds are now
available for construction of a water storage tank so that irrigation can be
applied by gravity. This would result in improvements in the 1978 dry season.
Extension activities carried out under the IDZ Program include training
courses and the provision of fertilizers, pesticides and knapsack sprayers on
long-term credit. It is intended that repayment of loans should be made to
the local cooperative society for the creation of revolving credit funds.
Transport is provided for distribution of seedlings and other inputs and for
the collection of coffee cherry. The IDZ budget for 1978 is K 250,000 of
which K 18,150 is for Ikumbi coffee development.
2.06      Smallholdings in Isoka, Chinsali and Mpika Districts:  A coffee
nursery was maintained by MLA in the 1960's at Isoka, about 60 km south of
Ikumbi area. Seedlings were distributed to growers in the areas, but few
coffee plots now remain. Within the last two years interest has revived



and more seedlings have been distributed. In Chinsali district there are a
few scattered smallholdings, mainly along the foot of an escarpment where the
slope of the land makes it possible to construct irrigation furrows fed from
the streams by gravity. In Mpika district there were several flourishing
smallholdings near the Malashi coffee research sub-station and coffee pulpery.
Coffee growing in this area suffered a serious setback when most of the water
in the stream was diverted to the newly constructed railway workshop of
TANZARA (Tanzanian-Zambia Railway) at Mpika, but as no water permits had been
obtained for the coffee plots, the growers and the MLA had no legal backing
for their objections.
2.07      Chilwa Demonstration Plot:  This plot was established in 1970
by MLA at a site 45 km south-west of Mbala at an altitude of about 1,400 m.
The plot consists of 0.8 ha of non-irrigated coffee which has grown well
and produced crops of about 1,000 kg/ha of clean coffee in 1975 and 1976.
Farmers in the area have so far shown little interest in growing coffee
and only three plots were established; these were later abandoned. The
main constraint to development of the area is the lack of a good access
road.
2.08      There are a few scattered coffee plots on smallholdings in Mbala
and Mporokoso districts. Since the expatriate owners left the estates in
Mbala district, the new owners have not reestablished coffee. The Lucheche
coffee research sub-station is situated on part of the former Unwin Moffat
estate; it produces high yields from irrigated coffee.
2.09      The Project, although principally dealing with the existing estates,
will also assist the smallholder sector, laying the groundwork for more
substantial smallholder production later on.
B. Coffee Extension and Research
2.10      MLA:  MLA's Director of Agriculture has overall responsibility for
coffee production on Ngoli Estate (assisted by the Projects Division), coffee
extension (assisted by a Senior Tree Crops Advisor), and coffee research
(assisted by the Deputy Director of Agriculture for the Research Division).
The Ngoli estate manager is responsible for day to day administration and
implementation of the Ngoli coffee scheme. The Provincial Agriculture Officer,
Kasama, is responsible for extension work in the Northern Province, assisted
by the District Agriculture Officer in each district. The coffee research
program is under the charge of the Chief Research Officer, who is based at the
National Research Station, Mount Makulu, Lusaka. Research in the Northern
Province is centered on Misamfu Regional Research Center, under which are
Malashi and Lucheche sub-stations at Mpika and Mbala, respectively.
2.11      Coffee Extension:  The MLA is responsible for extension services
for all crops, including coffee. In Nakonde, there is a Specialist Agricul-
tural Assistant seconded by MLA to the IDZ coffee scheme; he is assisted by



one Commodity Demonstrator. In other areas of the Province there are no
specialized coffee extension workers; advice on coffee is given by MLA
district extension staff on general duties. In recent years, these extension
workers have been hampered by a lack of funds and, in particular, lack of
transport. Occasional training courses on coffee culture for extension
workers have been held at Misamfu Research Station. Within the last year, MLA
has made an effort to increase coffee planting by establishing more coffee
nurseries for the supply of seedlings to growers.
2.12      Coffee Research:  The first research plots were established at Old
Fife Agricultural Camp near Nakonde in 1954, but since 1957 coffee research
has been centered on Misamfu Research Station. Sub-centers for coffee re-
search were later established at Lucheche research sub-station (Mbala) and at
Malashi research sub-station (Mpika). The main lines of research work have
been: (a) testing of cultivars (varieties) of arabica coffee from Kenya,
Tanzania and Brazil. Yield levels in several trials have been substantially
higher in the last four years, averaging over 3,000 kg/ha with peak crops of
over 5,000 kg/ha clean coffee; (b) fungicides and insecticides; (c) fertil-
izers; (d) pruning and spacing; and (e) herbicides. The proposed technology
of coffee production in the Project (Chapter V) is largely based on the
research findings at Misamfu, supplemented by work done in Kenya and Tanzania.
2.13      The expatriate Perennial Crops Agronomist left Zambia in January
1978, and a replacement has not yet been obtained. Funds allocated in 1978
for transport, labor and field requisites are about K 25,000 which is less
than in 1976 and reflects the current squeeze on the Zambian budget. Even
before 1976, the research program was hampered by a lack of funds and in some
years experimental plot yields could not be recorded. Assistance for coffee
research is included in the Project.
C. Processing and Marketing
2.14      RUCOM took over the coffee huller and the smallscale roasting and
grinding equipment at Misamfu Research Station, later purchasing an additional
second-hand roaster and grinder. With this equipment RUCOM produces roast and
ground coffee packed in heat-sealed polythene bags. Output is 175 kg per
8-hour shift, operating two shifts per day. The equipment has recently been
moved to RUCOM's depot in Kasama and additional roasting and grinding equip-
*ment has been ordered from the Federal Republic of Germany.  Marketing and
pricing procedures will be discussed in detail in Chapter VII.
D. Coffee Development Problems and Potential
2.15      Zambia offers a good opportunity for coffee growing and there
exists a good potential for the expansion of coffee production. Although
detailed soil survey has not yet been done further expansion of at least



- 8 -
1,000 ha should be feasible in the area through additional smallholders devel-
opment. Agro-climatic conditions in Northern and North-Western Provinces are
favorable for coffee growing and water for irrigation is also available from
several streams which are large enough to support coffee estates or groups of
smallholdings. Research results at Misamfu station are indicative of the
potential that exists in obtaining high yields per unit of land. It is esti-
mated that a well managed irrigated estate could produce on average 1,800
kg/ha of clean coffee at maturity while well managed irrigated and dryland
smallholder coffee could produce about 1,000 kg/ha and 600 kg/ha of clean
coffee, respectively. There are a number of constraints that have prevented
the industry from developing despite 25 years of sporadic extension efforts
by the MLA.
2.16      The main constraints in developing estate coffee production are:
(a) lack of existing large scale farms in the coffee area; (b) lack of identi-
fication of new sites where estates could be established in Northern Province;
(c) lack of expertise in estate coffee production and processing; and (d) lack
of funds to carry out the development program. The major constraints in
smallholder coffee production have been: (a) lack of well conceived and well
prepared smallholder coffee projects; (b) too big a plot size to be managed by
family labor; (c) generally low extension efforts and ineffective extension
services due to lack of transport facilities and absence of socio-economic
data; (d) delayed payment to the farmers and lack of assurance that the future
crop would be purchased for guaranteed price; (e) insufficient coffee hulling
facilities; (f) absence of research information on dryland coffee production;
and (g) social difficulties involved when farmers were given plots of irrigated
coffee at a distance from their homes and food crop plots. The proposed
Project would assist in removing some of the constraints. In addition, the
MLA is also preparing a project for development of smallholder coffee growing
in the North-West Provinces.
III. RUCOM INDUSTRIES LIMITED (RUCOM)
A. Background and Objectives
3.01      In June 1961, RUCOM Industries Ltd. (RUCOM) was incorporated as a
private company for the sole purpose of establishing and developing small-
scale industries in rural centers. In 1968, RUCOM Industries Ltd. became a
wholly owned subsididary of INDECO Limited, which in turn is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation - a parastatal organi-
zation reporting to the Ministry of Industry.
3.02      The broad objectives of RUCOM are to establish rural productive
business and to provide productive employment in rural areas away from the
"line-of-rail". More specifically, RUCOM's objectives provide for a wide
range of business activities which enable the company inter-alia to:
(a) identify possibilities for the further development of small-
scale industries;



(b)  undertake feasibility studies or special investment reports
on all such projects identified;
(c)  provide technical and managerial advisory services directly
to Zambian entrepreneurs establishing and managing the small
enterprises identified with project assistance (set up on a
tenant basis in RUCOM "mini-industrial estates" throughout
Zambia);
(d)  provide technical and managerial advisory services to entre-
preneurs encountering difficulties in running their enterprises
due to a lack of training and experience; and
(e)  train a group of Zambian professionals to continue the small-
scale industry development activities described in (a) through
(d) above.
B. Management and Organization
3.03      RUCOM is controlled by a Board of Directors.  The Board comprises:
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industry (chairman); Permanent Secretary,
MLA: Managing Director, INDECO; and Managing Director, Development Bank of
Zambia. The General Manager of RUCOM, under the direction of the Board
of Directors, and assisted by an Assistant Deputy General Manager and an
adviser, handles the day-to-day business through RUCOM's six departments and
various operational units (Chart 1, IBRD 19229). RUCOM's headquarters in
Lusaka are presently organized into the following departments and offices:
accounting, personnel, purchasing, maintenance, marketing and distribution,
and marketing research.
3.04      RUCOM presently employs 492 Zambians, only the Chief Accountant and
the Marketing Adviser are expatriates. With new activities in three bakeries,
and with the reorganization in wood and metal workshops, the total strength of
personnel will be 584 employees during 1978. The new company Rulite Limited
RUCOM's new (1977) subsidiary, which will manufacture candles, will have 80
workers for its four plants. RUCOM suffers from a shortage of skilled and
middle-management personnel to handle various projects. It has been endeavor-
ing to recruit such manpower and is attempting to improve its management
capabilities.
Operations
3.05      RUCOM runs more than 30 very diversified commercial units scattered
throughout Zambia, the majority of them being located in rural areas. RUCOM
operates profitably: bakeries, canning operations, wood workshops, metal
workshops, a tannery, an eggtray plant, garages and filling stations, building
/equipment rentals, candle plants and coffee processing. By the end of 1978,



- 10 -
the coffee hulling capacity should be about 175 tons of roasted coffee per
annum. RUCOM also operates hardware distribution facilities, quarries,
dry-cleaners, cement, clay and brick distribution as well as stone crushing
and block making facilities. However, these last operations incur regular
losses, proving to be a constant drain on RUCOM's financial resources. Some
of them are being reviewed with the objective of either dissolving them or
handing them over to interested private entrepreneurs.
C. Finances
Financial Structure
3.06      RUCOM has an authorized share capital of K 2.0 million (US$2.4 mil-
lion) of which K 1.85 million is issued and fully paid. RUCOM'S projected
1978 net worth also includes a Government grant of K 0.6 million, undistribut-
able reserves of K 0.75 million, and a cumulative operating loss of K 1.83 mil-
lion, resulting in a net reserves deficit of K 0.5 million, but in an overall
acceptable positive net worth of K 1.4 million. RUCOM does not have any long-
term debt, but it was forecast that there would be a negative net working
capital of K 0.2 million by the end of 1978 (fiscal year) which will represent
a low current assets/current liabilities ratio of 0.8:1. A detailed 1978
forecast balance sheet and income statement is presented in Tables 3 and 4.
Financial Past Performance
3.07      The overall past financial performance has not been satisfactory.
During the period 1974 to (projected) 1978, losses have increased from
K 0.05 million to K 0.06 million per annum, accounting for a cumulative loss
of K 1.9 million (Tables 3 and 4). This in spite of the fact that the reve-
nues of RUCOM have increased by 200% during the 1974-77 period, but its break-
even revenues have also grown from K 1.9 million in 1974 to about K 11.3 mil-
lion for (projected) 1978. The main reason for the increase in the break-even
is the substantial increase in the variable cost of production. This poor
financial performance is a reflection of RUCOM's keeping some non-viable lines
of operation such as dry cleaners, hardware distribution, cement, clay bricks
distribution, groceries, etc.
3.08      RUCOM's liquidity is acceptable, however RUCOM's total net worth
has decreased only from K 1.7 million in 1974 to K 1.4 million for (projected)
1978 in spite of the poor operational results, mainly because of the con-
tribution by Government through capital grants (projected to balance at
K 1.3 million in 1978). The equity remains constant at about K 8.5 million.
There has not been any long-term debt from 1974 to (projected) 1978. The
current ratio (current assets/current liabilities) has decreased from 2.6:1.0
to 0.8:1.0, which is low, but is still an acceptable level for this type
of operation.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The proposed Project would help to achieve Government objectives
of (a) reaching self-sufficiency in agricultural commodities; (b) diversify-
ing the economy by producing agricultural surpluses; and (c) achieving a more
even distribution of income between the rural and urban population. The
Project would provide a sound basis for the long-term development of the
coffee subsector in the national context. One of the important objectives of
the Project would be to investigate and develop the potential for smallholder
coffee and to assist the subsistence farmers to enter into cash economy by
growing coffee and thereby increasing their income and raising their standard
of living. The Project would aim at strengthening the ongoing cc,ffee research
and at laying a foundation for development of a long-term unirrigated small-
holder coffee research program.
B. Project Area
4.02      Estate coffee production under the Project would be confined to
Ngoli and Kateshi estates in Kasama district of Northern Province, while the
smallholder and research component will cover Mpika, Chinsali, Mporokoso and
Mbala districts of the Northern Province (see map IBRD 13623) and some areas
of the Northwestern Province. The major part of the area lies at an altitude
of 1,200 m - 1,500 m with higher areas along the Tanzanian boundary and along
the watershed between the Luangwa and Chambesi rivers.  Slopes are Msually
very gentle. The total area of the Northern Province is 148,000 km which
is about 20% of the total area of Zambia. The total population (mid-1976)
of the province was 610,000 which was 8.4% of Zambia's total population of
5.1 million. About 20% of the population live in Kasama district around the
provincial capital of Kasama. Agriculture is mostly based on shifting culti-
vation. Where the shifting system is breaking down due to local population
pressure, the staple millet is being replaced by cassava, and in some cases
by maize. However, in dietary terms, the adoption of cassava further deteri-
orates the existing level of nutrition.  Other important crops of the region
are rice, groundnuts and beans.
4.03      The soils are derived from acidic rocks and are generally low in
bases except for a few localized soils. The upland soils tend to be free-
draining and highly leached with sandy upper horizons and a higher clay
content in the lower horizons. At Misamfu Research Station, the main soil
type is the Misamfu sandy loam, which is similar to the soil at Kateshi
estate. A typical soil analysis of the Misamfu sandy loam, woodland, shows a
clay content of 15% in the top soil increasing to 30% at 40 cm depth. The
soil is very acid with a pH value (CaC12) of 4.7. At Ngoli estate the soil



- 12 -
is fairly similar but has a higher clay content. Soils of this type are
widespread in the project area but they are variable in respect of depth and
clay content. Coffee should be planted only in areas where the soil depth is
at least 2 m and where the clay content is equal to or higher than the values
given. On more sandy soils the nutrient content and the water holding capa-
city are too low.
4.04      The climate is temperate with a hot summer, when rain occurs, and a
cool dry winter. The coolest season is July-August, when the mean monthly
minimum temperature is about 10°C and frost occasionally occurs in certain
areas.  Some coffee plots have suffered from frost, but, provided hollows and
other possible frost pockets are avoided, frost risk is not a serious con-
straint to coffee production in this region. Maximum temperatures occur
in October, prior to the onset of the rains; the mean monthly maximum in
most areas is then about 30 C with abSolute maximum temperatures of about
35 0C. Annual rainfall average is about 1100 mm. There is a clearly defined
rainy season lasting for about six moinths from November to April and a six
months dry season from May to October. The rainy season is longer in Mbala
and Mporokoso, which have more rain in October and May, and the number of rain
days per year is greater as may be seen from the rainfall map 13623. These
rainfall differences are of importance in the cultivation of non-irrigated
coffee and indicate that conditions are considerably more favorable in the
Mbala-Mporokoso area (where the Chilwa demonstration plot is situated) than
in Ikumbi area. In Isoka, Chinsali and Mpika the coffee plots are mostly
situated at the foot of mountains which probably cause considerable variations
in rainfall; this factor should be considered in selecting sites for coffee
development. There is considerable variation in annual rainfall, the co-
efficient of variation for most recording stations being 15% to 20%. Variation
in monthly total is much greater, the coefficient of variation being 25% to
35% for January and February, 30% to 40% for December and March, 40% to 80%
for November and April. The variation was less (i.e. the reliability greater)
in the north-west of the province (Mbala and Mporokoso).
4.05      In conclusion it may be said that the agro-climatic conditions
described above are favorable for growing coffee, both on estates and under
smallholder conditions.
C. General Description
4.06      The Project would, over a five year period, lay a basis for commer-
cial coffee production by rehabilitation and development of existing Ngoli
estate to 50 ha and by establishing 400 ha of coffee at Kateshi estate, a
total of 450 ha producing an average of 800 tons of clean coffee per annum
at full development, mainly for domestic consumption. 450 ha of maize would
be grown principally to provide mulch for coffee; this would produce about
2,000 tons of maize grain for sale annually. The Project would also provide
for coffee processing, roasting, and packing facilities at Kasama. The
Project would rehabilitate and develop about 90 ha smallholder coffee produc-
tion in four districts of Northern Province, involving about 600 subsistence



- 13 -
farmers and would strengthen the coffee research capabilities. The project
also would develop smallholder coffee production in Northwestern Province
and provide funds for identification and preparation of projects for future
expansion of smallholder coffee production. The Project would be comprised
of three components (a) estate coffee production and processing to be imple-
mented by RUCOM; (b) smallholder coffee production; and (c) coffee research
to be implemented by MLA.
4.07      Estate coffee production and processing component:  The Project
would provide funds to RUCOM for:
(i) bush clearing and land preparation of 750 ha at
Kateshi;
(ii) purchase of farm machinery and workshop equipment;
(iii) development of an irrigation system by construction of a
main canal, field channels, and a night storage reservoir;
(iv)  improvement of access to estates at Kateshi and Ngoli;
(v)  purchase of incremental crop inputs and paying wages for labor;
(vi)  incremental staff, technical assistance, and training;
(vii)  purchase of vehicles for personnel transport as well as
radio sets and equipment;
(viii) construction of staff houses at Kateshi;
(ix) installation of coffee processing facilities by con-
struction of a coffee pulperies at Kateshi and Ngoli and coffee
mill and coffee warehouse at Kasama;
(x) purchase of coffee processing machinery for pulping,
drying, hulling, grading, roasting, grinding and packing;
(xi) construction of farm buildings including input store,
workshop, implement shed, and office building at Kateshi, input
store at Ngoli; and
(xii) identification and preparation of project for future
expansion of the estate coffee sub-sector.
4.08      Smallholder coffee production and research component:  The Project
would provide funds to MLA for:
(i) incremental staff, technical assistance and training;
(ii) the purchase of pick-ups, knapsack sprayers, laboratory
equipment and crop inputs for nurseries, demonstrations,
smallholder participants and research trials;



- 14 -
(iii) the purchase of pipes for irrigation and coffee pulpery
machinery;
(iv) the construction of houses, one each at Mpika and Mbala,
and a pulpery at Lucheche; and
(v) identification and preparation of projects for future
expansion of the smallholder coffee production.
D. Detailed Features
Estate Coffee Development
4.09      Bush clearing, land preparation and phasing of coffee development:
At Ngoli estate over 100 ha of land are cleared of which 50 ha witll be cropped
with maize to provide mulching material for the coffee and also maize grain.
At Kateshi, bush clearing will be done mechanically, using heavy equipment,
and will be carried out in accordance with the proposed coffee and maize
planting schedule which requires that the maize area in one rainy season be
equal to the total coffee area in the following season in order that suffi-
cient maize stover is available to mulch the coffee. The phasing of bush
clearing, planting of maize and development of the coffee area at Kateshi is
summarized in the following table:
Phasing of bush clearing, planting of maize
and development of coffee area at Kateshi (ha)
Total cumulative
Period    Bush clearing   Maize planting   Coffee planting  coffee development
Pre-
Project         54               40                 14               14
Year 1         560              160                 40               54
Year 2         186              260                100              154
Year 3          -               360                100              254
Year 4          -               400                100              354
Year 5          -               400                 46              400
4.10      Farm machinery:  For the cultivation of 450 ha of coffee (400 ha
at Kateshi and 50 ha at Ngoli) and 450 ha of maize, the Project would finance
the purchase of the following farm machinery, spare parts and operating costs
during the development period: eight 70/80 HP and twelve 40/50 HP tractors;
sixteen tipping trailers (8 of 3.5 ton capacity and 8 of 7 ton capacity with
extension sides); disc ploughs, tandem disc harrows, single furrow ridging
plough; two maize planters; two tractor-mounted boom sprayers for maize; two
tractor-mounted hydraulic sprayers for coffee; three tractor mowers for
cutting maize stover for mulch; three tractor hay rakes; three front-mounted
loaders with buck-rake attachments for loading maize stover onto trailers; two
tractor-driven maize shellers, and 40 knapsack sprayers, and one lorry (3.5



- 15 -
ton capacity) for carting produce from estates to the processing factory and
for collecting inputs.
4.11      Irrigation development:  In order to provide an efficient irrigation
system at Kateshi, the Project would finance the construction of 9 km of main
canal from the river to the estate and 44 km of field distribution channels.
Since part of the coffee area is above the diversion canal, funds would be
provided to purchase and install of three pumps and 1 km of piping to convey
water to a night storage reservoir of 30,000 m capacity. The construction of
this reservoir would also be provided under the Project. The estate area has
been surveyed in detail and plans for the construction of the proposed irri-
gation system already exist and are satisfactory.
4.12      Farm and access tracks:  The Project would provide funds for the
construction and maintenance of 6 km of estate entrance tracks (3 km each
at Kateshi and Ngoli), 55 km of access tracks (46 km at Kateshi and 9 km at
Negoli) and 5 km of track along the lower canal at Kateshi. The entrance
tracks and canal tracks would be 5 m wide with murram surface, and would
be graded annually. Access tracks, 4 m wide, would be constructed between
the coffee tracks along the distribution channels. The Engineer of the MLA
has drawn up plans and drawings for the construction of these tracks.
4.13      Farm inputs and labor:  Estate coffee development would be carried
out under a high level of technical efficiency, i.e. pruning, application of
adequate quantities of fertilizers, following appropriate plant protection and
weed control measures. Funds would be provided for the incremental purchases
of these inputs, i.e., fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides, etc. A large
labor force would be required to carry out various farm and processing opera-
tions. Provision has been made for 50 permanent laborers at Kateshi, 10
at Ngoli estate and 9 at Kasama; and for 259,000 mandays casual labor for
seasonal work including picking of the first crop during the development
period before the crop starts economic bearing.
4.14      Staff and technical assistance:  For timely and efficient implemen-
tation of this component, funds would be provided for the employment of
the following internationally recruited staff: a project plantation manager
and an engineering manager. Local staff for Kateshi estate would include a
plantation supervisor, administrative assistant, technical assistant, stores
assistant, two storekeepers, a typist, a junior clerk, three field assistants,
twenty drivers, carpenter, two mechanics, electrician/ mechanic and 50
permanent laborers. Assurances would be needed from RUCOM that adequate
salaries will be offered. Staff for Ngoli estate would comprise an assistant
plantation supervisor, three drivers and ten permanent laborers. Staff for
the coffee milling, roasting and packing plant at Kasama would consist of a
processing supervisor and nine processing workers. A procurement officer,
project coordinator/market researcher would be employed to strengthen RUCOM's
head office services in Lusaka.
4.15      Personnel transport, communication and office facilities:  Since
there are no transport facilities at Kateshi, it would be necessary to provide



- 16 -
personnel transport to exercise effective control and supervision. The Proj-
ect would provide for the purchase of two 4 W-D station wagons for the Project
Manager and Engineer Manager; three 4 W-D pickups (1 ton capacity) for the
Plantation Supervisor at Kateshi; Assistant Plantation Supervisor at Ngoli
and for the Technical Assistant at Kateshi; five motorcycles (100 cc trial
model) for the Field Assistants (4) and for the workshop (1). Provision
would also be made for the purchase of two VHF radio sets to facilitate com-
munications between Kateshi, Ngoli, Kasama and RUCOM's head office in Lusaka.
Funds would also be provided for the purchase of typewriters, calculators
filing cabinets and other office equipment for the office of the
Project Manager and the Engineering Manager.
4.16      Staff housing:  At present, there is no housing available at Kasama
or Kateshi estate. It is essential that necesary accommodation be provided
for the key staff at those estates.  The Sroject would provide for the con-
struction of three prefab houses of 140 m one each for the Project Plantation
Mana er, Engineering Manager and the Plantation Supervisor; seven houses of
70 m four for Field Assistants and one each for the Technical Assistant,
the Store Assiitant and the Administrative Assistant at Kateshi; thirty-one
houses of 43 m for drivers, carpenters, mechanics, electriiians, store-
keepers, typist and junior clerk; and fifty chalets of 33 m for permanent
laborers.
4.17      Farm buildings, input stores, implement shed, warehouse and facili-
ties for complete processing of the coffee would be developed at the estates
and in Kasama.  The Project would provide for the construction of the fol- 2
lowing:  farm buildings, a coffee pulpery, an2input store (floor Irea 500 m
a workshop (150 m ), an implement shed (500 m ), and office (60 m ) It Kateshi;
additional fermenting tanks2and drying tables and input store 2(250 m ) at
Ngoli; a coffee mill (200 m ), and a coffee warehouse (1000 m ) at Kasama.
4.18      Coffee processing machinery:  The first stages of processing would
be carried out on the estate. The installation of a pulping plant, fermenting
tanks and drying facilities would be phased in relation to the build-up of the
coLree production.  Units capable of processing cherry and parchment coffee
equivalent to 200 tons/year of clean coffee would be installed in years 2, 4,
5 and 6 at Kateshi. While, at Ngoli, the pulpery would be improved by the
construction of additional fermenting tanks and drying tables. The dry
parchment coffee would be transported to Kasama for milling, roasting and
packing. The Project would provide for the purchase of four sets of pulping
machinery for Kateshi, each consisting of a 4-disc pulper, a repasser pulper
and trough drier; three pumps and a moisture meter; coffee mill machinery for
Kasama for precleaning; pre-hulling, peeling and polishing; density grading;
size grading; bichromatic color sorting; ultraviolet color sorting; sack
weighing and stitching; and machinery for roasting, grinding, weighing,
filling and sealing of bags.
4.19      Staff training:  For commercial estate coffee production and pro-
cessing, the internationally recruited Plantation Manager and Engineering
Manager would have the responsibility to train Zambian staff so that
estate production and processing would be taken over by national staff



- 17 -
at the end of this Project period. Assurances were obtained that RUCOM
would appoint a Plantation Assistant of high caliber who could replace the
expatriate. In addition to on-the-job training, the Project would finance
a 15-day-study tour to Kenya for the Plantation Supervisor, Assistant Super-
visor and Field Assistant; a 90-day-training at a Kenya pulpery for the Field
Assistant in charge of the pulpery at Kateshi; 90 days of training with the
machinery agent in Zambia for the mechanic and electrician; a 15-day-study
tour to Kenya by the Processing Supervisor (Kasama) to study coffee mill
operations; 90-day-training of the Processing Supervisor as coffee liquorer
in London.
4.20      Future Project identification and preparation:  In view of the good
potential that exists in Zambia for the expansion of coffee production, the
Project would provide funds for the identification of suitable areas for
estate coffee production and for the preparation of future projects. Such
Project preparation would be done by RUCOM's Project Coordinator assisted by
two internationally recruited staff members, i.e., the Project Manager and
Engineer.
Smallholder Coffee Production
4.21      Due to the favorable agro-climatic conditions, coffee has been grown
by smallholders in the Northern Province for the past two decades, but produc-
tion has been unstable and low. Previous efforts by MLA to promote small-
holder production have met with little success due to inefficient exten-
sion services and lack of a properly organized marketing system. Currently,
MLA's efforts are confined to the Ikumbi area only (through the assistance of
IDZ). Because of uncertainty of farmers' reactions, a production-oriented
pilot approach will be adopted to promote smallholder coffee production in the
more favorable agro-climatic areas of the Northern and Northwestern Provinces.
If this pilot projects are successful it will be capable of replication in
other smallholder areas suitable for coffee.
4.?2      The development program proposed in the Northern area of the Proj-
ect envisages recruitment of 30 new farmers each year in each of the four
districts of Mpika, Chinsali, Mbala and Mporokoso. It is expected that 120
farmers would join the Project each year, giving a total of 600 participants
by year 5. The Project would include measures to overcome the constraints
for smallholder coffee production and would provide for (a) the employment
of two Zambian Coffee Development Officers (one for Mpika and Chinsali areas,
one for Mpika and Mporokoso areas); twenty permanent workers (five in each of
the four districts) to maintain the nurseries and demonstration plots; two
drivers; (b) the purchase of two 4 W-D pickups for the Coffee development
Officers; the purchase of inputs (fertilizers and crop protection chemicals)
for the participating farmers; and sixty knapsack sprayers. The inputs and
sprayers would be sold to the farmers at subsidized prices (which is the
current practice of MLA to promote production); (c) the construction of two
Type 4 A houses for the Coffee Development Officers at Mpika and Mbala; (d)
two or three 15-day-training visits by the Coffee Development Officers in
Kenya and Tanzania.



- 18 -
4.23      The smallholder development program in the Northwestern area should
be detailed by MLA which shall furnish to the Association approval before
starting the execution of the program.
4.24      The project also would provide funds for the identification and
preparation of future smallholder development projects. Project preparation
would be done by MLA with the assistance of consultants if necessary.
Coffee Research
4.25      Research on the cultivation of coffee in Zambia carried out at
Misamfu main station, and Lucheche and Malashi sub-stations, has produced a
substantial body of recommendations. However, during the last few years, the
research program has been hampered by lack of funds. The expatriate Coffee
Agronomist left Zambia in January 1978, and there is no trained Zambian to
replace him. To support the ongoing research work and to initiate dryland
coffee research programs, in particular vis a vis future coffee development
by smallholder growers, the Project would provide funds for: (a) the employ-
ment of a research agronomist to be recruited internationally, who would
train a local counterpart Zambian to take over the assignment at the end of
the Project; four permanent laborers, 14,700 mandays of casual labor and one
driver; (b) the purchase of one 4 W-D pickup, inputs, laboratory and field
research equipment, coffee pulping machinery at Lucheche; (c) the construc-
tion of a coffee pulpery at Lucheche; (d) the installation of irrigation
pipes at Chabilikila sub-station in Luapula Province in order to irrigate
the robusta coffee experimental plot; and (e) the training and a 15-day-study
tour to Kenya for the understudy Zambian Coffee Research Officer.
E. Project Costs
4.26      Total Project Costs are estimated at K 6.9 million (US$8.3 million),
of which about US$3.9 million or about 47% represent foreign exchange require-
ments. Local taxes, principally input duties, sales tax and income taxes on
Project staff's earnings, estimated at K 0.6 million (US$0.7 million), are
included in the Project Costs estimate. Components are summarized in the
following table, while breakdown of costs by years and components are given
in Table 1.



- 19 -
Summary of Project Cost
Percentage
Distribution
(K '000)             (US$ '000)           of Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Costs
ESTATE COFFEE PRODUCTION
AND PROCESSING
Land clearing and preparation
during development period                86       162    248    104       194      298        5
Vehicles, implements, equipment           81       346    427       97     415      512        8
Development period agricultural
vehicles, operational costs              28        81    109       34      97      131        2
Development period crop inputs
material                                167       169    236       80     203      283        4
Development period labor wages           360        -      360    432       -       432        7
Irrigation costs                         206       233    439    247       280      527        8
Estate entrance and access tracks         40        37      77      48      44       92        1
Processing machinery                      61       247    308       74     296      370        6
Buildings and structures                 294       283    577    352       340      692       11
Development period management
and administrative costs                435       166    601    522       199      721       11
Housing                                  443       270    713    532       324      856       14
Staff training                            13        20      33      16      24       40        1
Project identification/preparation        83        84    167       99     101      200        3
Project monitoring and evaluation          13       12      25      16       14      30        -
Sub-Total       2,210    2,210  4,320  2,653   2,531   5,184           81
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Vehicles                                    7       11      18       9       13      22        1
Housing                                    11         5     16      13        6      19        -
Development period operational
expenses                                123        71    194    148        85      233        4
Training                                  -          2       2      -         2       2        -
Northwestern smallholder development  132           78    210    160         90     280        4
Project identification/preparation
and monitoring/evaluation               105       105    210    125       125      250        4
Sub-total         378       272    650    454       322      776       12
COFFEE RESEARCH COMPONENT
Vehicles                                    3         5      8       4        6       10       -
Machinery and equipment                     4        14     18       5       17      22        -
Building and installations                33        22      55      40       26      66        1
Development period operational
expenses                                189        92    281    226       111      337        6
Training                                  -          2       2      -         2        2       -
Sub-Total         229       135    364    275       162      437        7
Total Baseline Costs                 2,817    2,517  5,334  3,377   3,020   6,397          100
CONTINGENCIES:  Physical                 303       278    581    363        334     697       11
Price                   566       416    982    679 1   499   1,178          19
Total Contingencies                    869       694  1,563  1,042       833   1,875        30
Total Project Costs                  3,686    3,211  6,897  4,419   3,853   8,272          130



- 20 -
4.27      The Project period would be October 1978 until September 1983.
Costs have been estimated at prices expected to prevail in October 1978.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been included for all Project components,
except for irrigation, to which a 30% contingency was applied because of
uncertainties of current price estimates. No contingencies were applied for
project identification and preparation nor monitoring and evaluation.
4.28      Allowances for price contingencies have been applied to foreign
exchange components of Project cost at the following rates: civil works 8%
for 1978, 7.5% for 1979 and 7% for 1980 onwards; vehicles equipment and
machinery 7% for 1978; 6.5% for 1979 and 6% for 1980 onwards; while 13%
have been applied to local components of Project costs, excluding salaries
which levels are fixed by the Government, for salaries it has been applied
10% for 1978; 9% for 1979 and 8% for 1980 onwards. The "civil works" con-
tingencies have been applied to land clearing and incremental preparation,
irrigation, housing, estate entrance and access tracks. The "vehicles, equip-
ment and machinery" contingencies have been applied to vehicles, machinery,
equipment and other materials, agricultural inputs, and other expenses. The
"salaries" contingencies have been added to salaries, incremental labor wages
and the cost of training.
F. Financing
4.29      The financing of the project costs would be as follows:
Percentage of
US$ Million Total Project Costs
Coffee Estate Plantation and Processing
IDA Credit                                                6.0                 72
Government of Zambia                              1.6               20
Less:  Taxes and Duties                         0.7                8
Net Contribution                                 0.9                12
Project Self-Generated Funds 1/                   1.2               14
Less:  Medium Term Loans 2/                     0.5                6
Net Self-Generated Funds                         0.7                 8
Sub-Total                                       7.6                92
Taxes and Duties                                          0.7                  8
Total Project Costs                             8.3               100
4.30      The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million would be on standard terms
to the Government of Zambia, and would finance 72% of the total Project costs
(including taxes and duties) which would cover all foreign exchange costs
(US$3.9 million) and 48% of the local costs. The proposed IDA credit would
be divided between RUCOM Industries Ltd., which would receive US$4.5 million,
and the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture (MLA), which would receive US$1.5
million for both the smallholder development and coffee research components.
In view of the pilot nature of the MLA components, 100% of the total costs
would be financed.
1/   Generated by the sales of maize and coffee production.
T/   Medium term loan financing, see para 4.31.



- 21 -
Financing of RUCOM
4.31      For the coffee production and processing component, the Government
of Zambia would increase its shareholding participation in RUCOM by US$1.6
million to maintain a sound net worth structure (para 8.04). Assurances were
obtained that the Government would provide such a grant according to a sched-
ule agreed upon at negotiations. The net grant (excluding taxes and duties)
would be US$0.9 million, which represents 12% of the total Project costs. The
remaining gap of US$0.7 million would be met by the self-generated Project
funds. The Government of Zambia would onlend the US$4.5 million to RUCOM
Industries Ltd. at not less than 10% annual interest and 20 years repayment
period including a five-year grace period. The proposed onlending rate is
consistent with the lending-rates from the Development Bank of Zambia and
from the commercial banks in Zambia -- about 10% per annum. The annual rate
of inflation 1/ was 8.5% in 1974/75; 15.8% in 1975/76 and 17.4% in 1976/77;
and is expected to be about 13% for the next three years. The completion of
an onlending agreement between the Government and RUCOM Industries Ltd., in a
form satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of effectiveness.
The project cash flow analysis demonstrates that there would be a gap between
the RUCOM's financial requirements IDA credit disbursements during the first
three years of the Project, and a compensating surplus for the remaining years
up to year 5. This gap, estimated at US$0.5 million would be financed through
medium-term loans from local banks. However, an assurance was obtained at
negotiations that Government would arrange for bridging finance in case RUCOM
Industries Ltd. cannot obtain the necessary loans.
4.32      In order to avoid losing one planting season, the Association has
urged RUCOM Industries Ltd. to begin purchasing tractors and implements,
agricultural inputs, contract land-clearing and initial preparation, labor
wages, and staff salaries, and construct some houses, workshops and sheds,
prior to Board presentation. It is recommended that part of the cost of these
expenditures incurred between July 1978 and the date of the loan signing
(about US$0.4 million) be financed retroactively out of the proposed credit.
G. Procurement
4.33      Procurement under the credit agreement would be in accordance with
the Bank/IDA guidelines: (a) orders for tractors, tipping trailers, imple-
ments, lorries, cars, pick-ups, motorcycles, workshop equipment and associated
spare parts (US$0.5 million) would be bulked as far as practicable and to the
maximum extent possible and procured by RUCOM through local competitive
bidding (LCB) although foreign firms who maintain an adequate after-sales
services and inventory of spare parts in Zambia, would be allowed to compete;
(b) processing machinery (US$0.4 million) would be procurred by RUCOM through
1/   High-income consumer prices.



- 22 -
international competitive bidding (ICB); (c) construction of buildings (US$0.7
million) and pre-fabricated houses (US$0.7 million) and irrigation (US$0.5 mil-
lion) would be too small in any one year to attract international contractors
but would be procurred under local competitive bidding, although foreign firms
would be allowed to compete; (d) land development including landclearing and
initial preparation (US$0.3 million), estate entrance and access tracks (US$0.1
million), and crop inputs including fertilizers, fungicides, insecticides,
herbicides, seedlings, bags, and hand tools would be procured under local com-
petitive bidding; and (e) smallholder development component (US$0.9 million)
and research component (US$0.6 million) would follow Government Standard Pro-
curement Regulations and procedures which are satisfactory. ICB procurement
would follow IDA guidelines, and local procurement would be under local pro-
cedures, acceptable to IDA.
4.34      Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess
of US$50,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval before invitations
are issued. Bid analysis and recommendations for award would be submitted
to the Bank for comment before contracts are awarded. Any contracts placed
in advance of Board presentation would be in accordance with the above pro-
curement procedures. Assurances that the above procurement procedures would
be followed would be obtained at negotiations.
H. Disbursement
4.35      IDA would disburse on the following basis:  (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures and 80% of the local costs when purchased locally for vehicles,
equipment, and processing machinery; (b) 100% of the foreign expenditures and
80% of the local costs for Project identification and preparation, consultancy
for monitoring and evaluation, trailling and expatriate personnel salaries; 1/
(c) 80% of local expenditures for estate development costs including civil
works and land preparation; (d) 80% of local costs for crop inputs inclUd4. %g
labor wages, fertilizers, and other chemical inputs under the project; (e)
100% of all expenditures with regard to smallholder development; (f) 100% of
all expenditures for coffee research component.
4.36      Disbursements against vehicles, equipment, machinery, civil works by
contracts would be fully documented. Disbursement under (b), (c), (d), (e)
and (f) would be made against certificates of expenditures signed by the
General Manager of RUCOM for the estate coffee production or by the Directors
of Agriculture - MLA for the smallholder and coffee research components. The
documentation which would not be submitted to IDA would be retained by
the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions. Any funds remaining in
the accounts at the completion of the Project may be made available for
Project-related items to be agreed upon by the Association and the Borrower.
A schedule showing the estimated pattern of disbursement of credit funds is
presented in the following table:
1/   Includes salaries for a Project/Production and an Engineering Manager
of about US$24,000 and US$18,000 respectively for a five year period.
Further expenditure for these two managers would be a travel allowance
of about US$60,000, education allowance of about US$16,000, free housing
and a company car.



- 23 -
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of
IDA Funds (US$'000)
Cumulative
Disbursement in    Disbursement at
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End       Quarters        the end of Quarter
1979  September
December /1                         -                    -
March /2                          360                  360
June                              240                  600
1980  September                          480               1,080
December                          460                1,540
March                             200                1,740
June                              260               2,000
1981  September                          260               2,260
December                          320               2,580
March                             380               2,960
June                              380               3,340
1982  September                          520               3,860
December                          310               4,170
March                              280               4,450
June                              220               4,670
1983  September                          230               4,900
December                          360               5,260
March                              230              5,490
June                              220               5,720
1984  September /3                       280               6,000
/1   Estimated quarter signing of loan agreement.
/2   Estimated quarter of loan effectiveness.
/3   Estimated quarter of project completion.
I. Accounts, Audit
4.37      Separate accounts geared to producing cost control and management
information related to estate coffee production and processing would be kept
by RUCOM. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above account:s
would be maintained, that the accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and the accounts and auditors reports would be
submitted to the Association within six months of the end of their fiscal year.



- 24 -
V. COFFEE PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING TECHNOLOGY
A. Cultural Practices for Estate Coffee Production
5.01      The recommended cultural measures to be followed under the Project
at Kateshi and Ngoli estates are based on those already in use there, and
on recent findings that have led to high yields of coffee at Misamfu Research
Station with some modifications based on experience in neighboring countries.
Seed of the SL 34 variety of coffee from Misamfu Research Station would be
planted in the Estate nurseries in August each year.  Allowing for 30% wastage
of seedlings, 1 ha of nursery would produce enough planting material to estab-
lish 78 ha of coffee planted at the proposed density of 2,667 tree!s/ha. The
coffee would be irrigated. The coffee seedlings would be transplanted in
December in blocks which would be 100 m wide with a cement-lined distribution
canal along the upper side, a grassed drainage channel along the :Lower side
and 1 m wide border-strip irrigation furrows 3 m apart running ac,ross the
block. The average slope of the land is 3% and the blocks would be orientated
so that the slope of the border-strips was 1%. Seedlings would be planted
at a spacing of 3 x 1.25 m with the rows of seedlings along the center of the
irrigation border strip. A basal dressing and limestone and double super-
phosphate fertilizer would be applied at 100 g/meter (333 kg/ha) of limestones.
These fertilizers are recommended because of the high acidity of the soil and
the low content of calcium, phosphate and sulphur. Nitrogen fertilizer
top-dressings would be applied twice a year initially and then three times a
year when the coffee comes into production. A thin layer of mulch would be
maintained in the borderstrip channel in which the seedlings are planted.
Mulch would be applied in alternate inter-rows in alternate years. The
requirement of mulch material is 20 tons/ha of maize stover, which would be
produced by 1 ha of maize. Weed control in the tree rows would be by hand
weeding. This would be combined with maintenance of the irrigation border
strips in which the seedlings are planted. The inter-row avenues would
be sprayed with the pre-emergence herbicide simazine (3 kg/ha of 80% formula-
tion) in December to control weeds during the first rainy season and any weed
growth would be dug out at the end of the rains. In the second year a
system of weed control by minimum cultivation would be started; the weeds
would be controlled with the contact herbicide paraquat (Gramoxone), which
would be sprayed in the inter-rows using hand-operated knapsack sprayers
fitted with flood-jet nozzles to prevent spray drift.  Perennial grasses would
be controlled by spot application of dalapon.
5.02      Irrigation would be applied at three-week intervals during the
dry season, May until October, except for a six-week period in August/Sep-
tember, when the trees would be subjected to moisture stress in order to
induce flowering. As the total irrigation requirement would be applied
to border strips occupying only one third of the total area (1 m wide strips
at intervals of 3 m), the total net depth to be applied in each irrigation
application would be 195 mm (3 x 65 mm) except after the six-month stress
period when it would be 390 mm. Assuming a field application efficiency of



- 25 -
70%, the gross depth of water required for a net ipplication of 195 mm is
279 mm, which gives a total requirement of 27.9 m for each border strip
100 m long x 1 m wide. During the period of peak demand (September/October)
the minimum net stream flow required to irrigate 400 ha at 14-day intervals
would be 307 l/sec assuming irrigation was carried out over a 24-hour period.
Assuming a conveyor efficiency of 90% the diversion requirement would be 341
1/sec. During the period of lower demand (May/August) the minimum diversion
requirement to irrigate 400 ha of coffee at 21-day intervals would be 220
1/sec.  If irrigation application was confined to daylight hours (12 hours/
day) the stream flow required would be twice the above quantities unless night
storage capacity was available.
5.03      RUCOM's existing water permit for extracting water from the Lukupa
river is for 14.2 million liters per day which is equivalent to a flow of
165 1/sec over a 24-hour period. The normal dry season flow of the Lukupa
river is 1,000 I/sec, possibly falling to 800 1/sec in a 1 in 20 year drought.
Kasama town is supplied by the Lukupa river but the requirement of the town
is adequately covered by tributaries joining the river below Kateshi estate;
the whole flow of the Lukupa river at Kateshi could therefore be made avail-
able for the estate. RUCOM has now applied for an increased permit of
500 I/sec, which would be adequate for 400 ha of coffee, the coffee pulpery
and domestic requirements. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Governm5nt shall cause RUCOM to receive a permanent permit to divert up
to 43,200 m of water per day from the Lukupa River by August 31, 1979. The
existing conveyor has a capacity of only 30 1/sec but an enlarged conveyor
with a capacity of 500 I/sec could be built on the same stone foundation.
During the peak period of irrigation demand (September/October) 341 1/sec
would be required during the 12-hour daylight period for irrigating the 200
ha of coffee below the main conveyor. For irrigating the other 200 ha of
coffee above the main conveyor, 300 1/sec would be pumped into the night
storage reservoir during the 12-hour night period for application to the
coffee the following day. As this would be insufficient to meet the peak
demand, it would also be necessary to pump 100 1/sec (one of the three pumps)
for about 5 hours some time during the 12-hour daysight period. The water
requirement for the coffee pulpery woulq be 22.5 m /ton of clean coffee,
which gives a maximum demand of 112.5 m /day in June and July; this would be
supplied by a flow into a storage tank of 8 1/sec over the 24-hour period.
The water demand for domestic purposes would be less than 20 1/sec over the
24-hour period.
5.04      Copper fungicide sprays would be applied to the coffee six times a
year to prevent premature leaf fall ("tonic" effect) and to prevent lead rust.
When necessary, insecticide would be added to the spray solution to control
leaf miners or Antestia bugs. In the nursery, soil insects would be con-
trolled by raking aldrin dust into the soil before planting the seed; "damp-
ing-off" disease, eye-spot and leaf rust would be controlled with copper
fungicide.
5.05      The trees would be pruned on the conventional uncapped multiple
stem system with two stems in the first cycle and three stems in the sub-
sequent cycles. The first pruning operation would be carried out in the



- 26 -
nursery, about three months before planting out, when the seedlings would be
cut back to 30 cm to 40 cm above the ground level so that they develop two
streams. Only plants that have developed two healthy sucker shoots and also
have a good root system would be planted out; any unsatisfactory seedlings
would be discarded. Red-ripe cherries would be picked at 7 to 10 days inter-
vals during the peak season.
B.  Coffee Processing
5.06      The cherry would be pulped with a 4-disc pulper and the resulting
parchment coffee graded into two grades of heavy coffee and lights (floating
beans). After the fermentation and washing stage, through the coffee would be
dried using air heated by solar energy received on the building's corrugated
iron roof which would be painted black.   As coffee quality is enhanced by
exposure to sunlight during the period of drying from 30% down to 20% moisture
content, this stage of drying would be done by sun-drying the coffee on
tables. Sun-drying would be continued until the parchment coffee is fully dry
after which it would be bagged and taken to Kasama for storage and milling.
5.07      The parchment coffee from Kateshi and Ngoli estates (and also from
smallholders) would be transported to Kasama where it would be stored in a
warehouse until required for milling. The coffee warehouse would be able to
store about 1,000 tons of parchment coffee (800 tons clean). By means of
controlled ventilation, a cool, dry atmosphere would be maintained in the
store so that the coffee could be kept for up to 12 months without appreciable
loss of quality. After hulling and grading, the coffee would be roasted in a
rapid roaster after which it would be ground and packed in polythene bags
by a packing and weighing machine.
C. Maize Cultivation for Mulch Production
5.08      Planting of Hybrid SR 52 variety would be carried out in late
October or early November, using a tractor-mounted 4-row planter with
fertilizer box attachment and applying 20 kg/ha of seeds and 250 kg/ha of
compound NPK fertilizer 10 - 20 - 10. Weed control would be done by herbi-
cides. Crop protection measures would consist of a preplanting application of
aldrin 2.5% dust at 20 kg/ha to control soil pests; and DDT, or an equally
effective pesticide to control stalkborer; a top-dressing of ammonium nitrate
(34% N) at 250 kg/ha would be applied by hand 6 to 8 weeks after planting.
The maize would be harvested by hand; the maize cobs would be shelled using a
tractor-mounted maize sheller; the maize stover would be mowed by rotary
mower, after which it would be windrowed by tractor rake and loaded into 7-ton
tipping trailers with high sides using tractors with front-mounted buckrakes.
The maize stover would then be transported and tipped in heaps on the edge of



- 27 -
the coffee blocks for subsequent application as mulch. It is estimated that
about 4,800 kg/ha of grain and 20 tons of air dry maize stover for mulch
will be obtained by these cultural practices.
D. Smallholder Coffee Production Methods
5.09      It is proposed that the Coffee Extension Officers would have recruit-
ment targets of 30 new farmers each year in each of the four districts of
Mpika, Chinsali, Mbala and Mporokoso, and on this basis, 120 farmers would
join the project each year, giving a total of 600 farmers by year 5. Each
farmer would plant 0.05 ha (100 trees) each year, which means that farmers
starting in year 1 would have 0.25 ha (500 trees) by year 5. The size of the
plot would be restricted to 100 trees each year in order to ensure that the
farmers could give their trees optimum treatment and that the labor demand for
the new coffee plot would not interfere with food crop production or disrupt
the farmers' way of life. The phasing of coffee development over the five-
year period would be as follows: (The investment costs, however, would
go up to year 8 or 9.)
Project Year
1         2          3          4          5
Farms in project                   120        240        360       480        600
100-tree blocks planted            120        240       360        480        600
Blocks in 2nd year                  -         120        240       360        480
Blocks in 3rd year                  -          -         120       240        360
Blocks in 4th year                             -          -        120        240
Blocks in 5th year                 _           -          -         -         120
Total number of blocks             120        360        720     1,200      1,800
Total area (ha)                    6.3       19.0       38.1      63.5       95.2
5.10      Where possible, coffee would be planted on sites where furrow
irrigation could be applied by gravity. Where irrigation is not possible,
coffee would be planted only on sites with at least 2 m depth of soil and a
clay content sufficiently high (say 10% in the top soil and 25% in the
subsoil) to ensure a good waterholding capacity and a reasonable exchangeable
base status. Frost pockets, exposed sites and slopes greater than 5% would be
avoided.
5.11      K 7 is the most suitable cultivar for smallholder conditions because
it has some resistance to leaf rust and also to coffee berry disease (which
is not yet present in Zambia). Under a high level of management it does not
produce as high a yield as SL 34, but under adverse conditions, it is more
vigorous and suffers less from dieback. Seed would be obtainable from Misamfu
Research Station free of charge. Nurseries would be established by the
Coffee Extension Officers in the coffee expansion areas, building up to a
total of 20 (5 per district) by year 5 when a total of 72,000 seedlings would



- 28 -
be required (allowing for 30% wastage). Inputs that would be provided under
the Project for seedling production include insecticide for the control of
soil pests, copper fungicide for disease control, and sulphate of ammonia
fertilizer. One knapsack sprayer would be provided for each nursery/demon-
stration plot for the application of fungicide and insecticide.
5.12      Coffee would be planted at a spacing of 2.3 m x 2.3 m (1,890 trees/
ha) with the rows in one direction following the contour. This planting
density is lower than that proposed for Kateshi estate because most of the
smallholder coffee would not be irrigated. Planting holes of a size at
least 60 cm x 60 cm should be dug several months in advance and infilled
with topsoil mixed with 200 g single superphosphate (378 kg/ha), which would
be provided at a subsidized price under the Project. Grass mulch should be
applied at planting time in a strip 1 m wide along the rows across the slope
in order to conserve moisture and prevent soil erosion, but grass mulch should
not touch the stem of the tree.
5.13      Nitrogen fertilizer top-dressings would be applied twice a year, the
first application being with sulphate of ammonia early in the rains (November)
and the second being with ammonium nitrate late in the rains (March). The
rate of application would be 20 g/tree of each fertilizer in the first year,
40 g/tree in the second year, and 80 g/tree per application from the third
year on. This last rate of application for mature coffee gives a total
annual requirement of 151 kg/ha of sulphate of ammonia (31 kg/ha N) and 151
kg/ha of ammonium nitrate (51 kg/ha N); this requirement would be supplied
to farmers at a subsidized price under the Project. Weed control would be
carried out by hand weeding, the coffee plots being kept clean weeded at all
times. Perennial grasses should be eradicated before planting coffee, as they
cannot later be dug out without damaging the coffee roots. Copper fungicide
spray would be applied six times a year by means of hand-operated knapsack
sprayers, the rates per application being 2 kg/ha of 50% copper formulation
in the first year, 4 kg/ha in the second year and 7 kg/ha from the third year
on. The spray volume for mature coffee would be 450 1/ha. When necessary,
fenthion insecticide would be added to the spray solution to control leaf
miner and Antestia bugs; the rate of application for mature coffee is 2.25
1/ha of 50% formulation and proportionally less in the first two years. In-
secticide application would normally be required twice a year. The require-
ments of fungicide and insecticide would be supplied to farmers at a subsi-
dized price under the Project. The knapsack sprayers would be supplied at a
subsidized price under the Project either to individual farmers or to groups
of farmers. The requirement would be about one sprayer per ten farmers. The
coffee would be pruned in the same manner as the estate coffee.
E. Yields
5.14      Estates.  Kateshi estate would produce a mean annual yield of 1,300
kg/ha of clean coffee over the first pruning cycle of seven years and 1,800
kg/ha for subsequent five-year pruning cycles. When the coffee at Ngoli estate
has been rehabilitated, it would also produce the above yields. The annual
yield would vary with the stage of pruning, approximately as follows:



- 29 -
Mean Annual Yield of Clean Green Coffee (kg/ha)
First pruning cycle           Second (and third) pruning cycles
Years from planting      Yield      Years from planting           Yield
1                  _
2
3                  900         8 (13) (18) (23)             600
4                2,000         9 (14) (19) (24)           1,800
5                3,000        10 (15) (20) (25)          3,200
6                2,200        11 (16) (21) (26)          2,400
7                1,000        12 (17) (22) (27)           1,000
7-year mean      1,300        5-year mean                 1,800
5.15      The estimated yield level of 1,800 kg/ha is higher than the average
estate yield in Kenya (about 1,300 kg/ha in East Rift districts), but it is
well below the average yield of about 2,500 kg/ha obtained on the better
estates in Kenya where inputs are applied at the high level proposed under the
Project. The Kenya estates suffer crop loss from coffee berry disease which
is not now present in Zambia. On Misamfu Research Station some plots of SL 34
coffee have given an average yield of 2,062 kg/ha over the first eleven
cropping seasons. However, yields at Misamfu have risen considerably within
the last few years and in some trials the mean yield over the last four
seasons exceeded 4,000 kg/ha.
Smallholders
5.16      It is estimated that dryland smallholder coffee plots established
under the Project would produce an average yield of 600 kg/ha of clean coffee
at maturity (from the fourth year after planting out) and that irrigat°ed
coffee would produce an average yield of 1,000 kg/ha. The dry land estimate
600 kg/ha is in line with yields obtained in early trials at Old Fife Agricul-
tural Camp, Nakonde, and on the better managed smallholdings under fairly
similar conditions in Malawi and Tanzania. The estimated yield for irrigated
coffee is considerably below the anticipated yield for the estates as it is
presumed that the level of management would be higher on the estates. Growers
within the vicinity of the central pulperies at Ikumbi, Malashi sub-station,
Mpika and Lucheche sub-station, and Mbala, would be their red cherry to the
pulpery where it would be pulped, washed and dried as presently done at
Ikumbi. In other areas where there are no pulping facilities, the growers
would sun dry the red-ripe cherries on wire-mesh trays or on hessian cloth
spread on drying tables to produce "hard" arabica coffee. When production in
an area builds up to about 20 tons/year of clean coffee it would then be
worth constructing a central pulpery.
F. Environmental Effects
5.17      The coffee pulpery at Kateshi estate would have a water recircula-
tion system which would reduce the volume of effluent water to a minimum.



- 30 -
This water would be used for irrigating maize or vegetables or else it would
be discharged into seepage pits. No water from the pulpery would be returned
to the river which supplies Kasama town. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that environmentally safe technology described before would be used.
The irrigation canals would be designed so that there were no lagoons to harbor
mosquitoes; mosquitoes would be controlled in the night storage reservoir.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management and Staffing
6.01      RUCOM would have responsibility for the implementation of the proj-
ect estate coffee production and processing component, including Kateshi and
Ngoli Estates and Kasama coffee processing. Ngoli estate would be transferred
from MLA to RUCOM. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Ngoli's legal
title would be formally transferred to RUCOM not later than December 31, 1979.
The implementation would be carried out within the existing organization and
management structure of RUCOM.  The overall responsibility would rest with the
General Manager, RUCOM, but the Project/Plantation Manager at Kateshi would
have specific responsibility to implement this component and would report
directly to the General Manager who would report to the RUCOM Board.  He would
be assisted by (a) a Plantation Supervisor, an Assistant Plantation Supervisor
and an Administrative Assistant; and (b) by an Engineering Manager whose re-
sponsibility would be to plan and supervise (i) procurement, operation and
maintenance of all the vehicles, farm and processing machinery; (ii) con-
struction and maintenance of the buildings. In particular, he would be
responsible for establishing and operating the coffee pulperies, the coffee
mill and the workshop. The appropriate departments at Headquarters would
handle the accounts, marketing and procurement for this component.
6.02      The Ministry of Lands and Agriculture (MLA) would be responsible for
the implementation of the smallholder and research components. The smallholder
component will be implemented within the existing set-up of extension services
under the overall supervision of the Northern Province Agricultural Officer,
who reports directly to the Director of Agriculture (MLA), Lusaka. Two Coffee
Development agricultural Officers (DAO) would liaise with regular extension
staff and work under the DAO Mpika and DAO Mbala and would operate from
Malashi and Lucheche research sub-station. The senior tree crop adviser in
MLA would also extend technical guidance to the Coffee Development Officers.
6.03      The research component will be implemented by the internationally
recruited Coffee Research Agronomist at Misamfu under the technical super-
vision of the Chief Research Officer at Mount Makulu, who reports to the
Deputy Director of Agriculture (MLA), Lusaka.
6.04      Good management is crucial for the success of the Project.  Since
Zambia does not yet have any expertise in coffee production, processing
and research, it is agreed with the Government, that the Project/Plantation



- 31 -
Manager, the Engineering Manager and the Coffee Research Agronomist would
be internationally recruited for a period of five years. During this time,
Zambians will be trained to take over these responsibilities. The Government
may wish to obtain this staff through technical assistance from bilateral
sources or the UNDP, in which case the Government would obtain firm offers
of such assistance. In case the Government opts to use the proceeds of the
proposed credit to pay for the requisite expertise to ensure that suitable
experts would be recruited, and an international advertisement specifying
suitably attractive terms would need to be issued. It was agreed at negotia-
tions that the post of the Project/Plantation Manager, Engineering Manager
and Research Agronomist would be internationally recruited; and that IDA
would approve their terms of reference and would be consulted prior to
appointments about their suitability in terms of qualifications and experi-
ence, and; that the appointments of the Project/Plantation Manager and Engi-
neering Manager would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit agreement;
that at least one Zambian Coffee Smallholder Development Officer and Coffee
Research Agronomist would be conditions of disbursement for their respective
categories under the loan agreement; and that a qualified counterpart to the
Plantation Manager, Engineering Manager and Coffee Research Agronomist would
be employed by June 30, 1979.
6.05      To avoid loss of one planting season and in view of the need for
advanced civil works design contracts and purchase of tractors, machinery and
land clearing under the Project, RUCOM has been requested to appoint, prior
to completion of negotiations, a Project Coordinator for a period of six months
or until the Project Manager is appointed and thereafter continue with support
services from RUCOM head office to carry on new project identification and
preparation for expansion of state coffee production.
B. Implementation and Reporting
6.06      An implementation schedule for the Project is contained in Chart
19230. Detailed quarterly progress reports of physical progress and the use of
funds under the Project would be prepared by the Project/Plantation Manager,
the Provincial Agricultural Officer of Northern Province, and the Chief
Research Officer for the General Manager and Board of RUCOM, MLA and for the
Association. Agreement on detailed quarterly progress reporting requirements
would be reached with RUCOM and MLA during negotiations. After completion of
disbursement, RUCOM and MLA would prepare a Project Completion Report, analyz-
ing the implementation of the Project and its impact in relation to its objec-
tives. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that RUCOM and MLA would pre-
pare such a report in consultation with the Association and would submit it tco
the Association within six months of the closing date of credit disbursement.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.07      Since this is the first Estate Coffee Production Project in Zambia,
it is essential that periodic internal monitoring and evaluation is undertaken



- 32 -
by RUCOM. Funds would be provided to hire a consultant for about two weeks
each year. The consultant would evaluate the progress and advise on next
year's planting. He would report directly to the General Manager of RUCOM.
6.08      In view of the pilot nature of the smallholder coffee development
component, MLA would engage the services of consultants whose qualifications
and experience be satisfactory to the Association to assist in the monitoring
and evaluation of this component. The objectives of this exercise would be
to (i) set up base line studies and collect data on farm management for the
participating farmers (i.e. their holdings, progress in coffee planting, use
of inputs including labor and other cultural practices); (ii) undertake some
case studies to investigate in more depth the impact of the Project; (iii)
make suggestions and recommend actions for further expansion of the program.
The terms of reference of this study, agreed by MLA and the consultants
would be submitted to IDA for approval together with a proposed contract.
VII. MARKETING AND PRICING
A. Domestic Markets and Prices for Coffee
Characteristics of Marketing Coffee in Zambia
7.01      The supply of coffee in Zambia is dominated by the Government's
control of production, import and marketing. This practice has created
constraints for coffee consumption. The supply is hampered by the small
quantities that are produced locally as well as by import limitations due
to restrictions on foreign exchange allocation. Consequently, the actual
demand does not indicate the "potential" for coffee consumption in Zambia.
Parchment coffee is bought by hullers such as RUCOM (95% of total production
in 1977) and Brooke Bond (5% of total production in 1977). These hullers
provide for transport of the coffee to the hulling mill and storage after
hulling. Green and instant coffee have been imported mainly by Overseas
Services Zambia Ltd., a subsidiary of the National Import and Export Corpora-
tion (NIEC); a parastatal grouping under Zambia Mining Corporation Ltd.
(ZIMCO), and Lyons Brooke Bond.
7.02      RUCOM and Lyons Brooke Bond are solely responsible for the wholesale
transaction channel network. They have few distribution outlets and limited
storage capacity which does not allow for an effective market coverage. Under
this Project, RUCOM proposes to give the wholesale distribution to the Consumer
Buying Corporation (CBC) which can provide a better market coverage by means
of its national outlet network. Retail transactions on a national basis have
been carried out predominantly by CBC, and Mwaiseni Stores Limited - two
further NIEC subsidiaries. These stores cover all the main urban centers and
thirteen of the most important rural centers. The national distribution
network is not effective, but there is no doubt that the provinces with rail
lines are served far better in this regard - a reflection not only of the
fewer logistical problems they pose, but also of their superior purchasing
power.



- 33 -
The Period from 1964 until 1977
7.03      The production of coffee in Zambia reached a record high of 66 tons
in 1977. This expansion from a total production level of 10 tons in 1971
coincided with the establishment of Ngoli Estate (MLA). In 1977, Ngoli Estate
produced 79% of the country's total production; Misamfu Research Station (MLA)
produced 16% and private smallholder farms 5%. Coffee consumption is estimated
to have decreased from 600 tons in 1970 to 403 tons in 1976. Over the same
period, the per capita consumption decreased from 0.140 kg/year to 0.080
kg/year, and total population rose from 4.3 million to 5.1 million. The
decrease in consumption is due mainly to import restrictions resulting from a
shortage of foreign exchange. In 1977 only 20 tons were imported because of
restrictions; instant coffee represented about 80% of those imports. The
production, import and apparent consumption of coffee for the period between
1968 and 1977 is shown in Table 2.
Projections for the Period 1979 until 1996
7.04      Production.  With the rehabilitation of Ngoli Estate and the full
production of Kateshi Estate expected by 1985, total coffee production would
average about 800 tons/year from 1985 onwards. This Project, until 1982 would
contribute with 730 tons/year of this. No additional production has been
assumed for smallholder farms because of the pilot nature of the Project;
however, a potential for increased production by smallholders is apparent. 1/
7.05      Consumption.  Zambia's population is projected to increase from 5.4
million in 1978 to 9.2 million in 1996 (an average growth rate of 3% per year).
The 1977 per capita consumption is not a good base because of import restric-
tions and neither is the 0.80 kg average per capita consumption in 1972/76
because these were also affected by import restrictions and high prices. On
the other hand the 0.140 kg average per capita consumption achieved in 1968/71
may not be applicable today either. The actual rate today probably lies some--
where between these two figures; if these two rates were applied to population
expected in 1987 it would consume 560 and 980 tons respectively. The present
retail prices however are particularly high and there is considerable room for
reduction. Two assumptions 2/ on changing per capita consumption by reducing
prices have been made in the project (Table 2): (i) the average 1972/76 per
capita consumption of about 0.080 kg/year which is similar to Tanzania's per
1/   If this pilot scheme succeeds, it would lead to an incremental production
of about 110 tons of coffee by 1990, and this would be replicated through-
out the country in the future.
2/   In the projections it was assumed (a) an annual per capita income growth
of zero for 1970 to 1981, and 1.5% thereafter; (b) an income elasticity
of demand of 0.6; (c) a price elasticity of -0.44; and (d) coffee price
reduction by an average of 6.6% annually from 1978 to 1985, to balance
the production with the consumption.



- 34 -
capita consumption, would rise to 0.110 kg per capita by 1987 (equivalent to
800 ton/p.a. in 1987); the average 1968/71 per capita consumption of about
0.140 kg/year, which is similar to Kenya's per capita consumption of about
0.140 kg/year, would rise to 0.180 kg per capita by 1987 (equivalent to 1,280
ton/p.a. in 1987). The development of future demand dependent largely on
the Government's price policy and changes in household incomes. If consumer
prices were pegged at levels so as to allow for an annual growth of 4.5% -
5.5% in per capita consumption, the total demand for coffee would increase
to 1,127 - 1,832 tons by 1996 for assumptions (i) or (ii), respectively.
Since the locally produced and roasted arabica coffee would be cheaper than
the imported instant coffee, it is expected that the coffee produced from
the Project would be consumed domestically and there will be no difficulty
in absorbing the Project production.
Domestic Prices
7.06      Minimum producer prices for parchment and clean coffee are fixed by
the Government of Zambia and usually reviewed on an annual basis. However,
the retail price for coffee is not controlled by the Government. The farmgate
price of grade B parchment coffee has increased from K 0.90 per kg in 1976 to
K 1.18 in 1977, and to K 1.56 per kg in 1978. The clean coffee price received
by hullers was raised from K 1.15 per kg in 1976 to K 1.50 per kg in 1977, and
K 2.0 per kg in 1978. The price of roasted coffee - packed in a polythene bag
of 250 gr - delivered at processing plant gate in 1977-78 was K 1.08 or K 4.32
per kg; the retail price was K 1.21 and K 4.84, respectively.  Accurate and
reliable data on importing costs of coffee in Zambia was not available.
However, a price structure of imported coffee for the economic analysis was
calculated based on the following data: (a) the existing data of ocean
freight, insurance, port wharfage, unloading, port handling and storage and
rail freight to Kasama and (b) the Guatemala prime washed, spot New York price
forecast 1/ adjusted to robusta coffee.
Price and Marketing Policy
7.07      Because of the price of imported coffee and high retail margins, the
roasted coffee price in Zambia is high by international standards. However,
as long as there exist domestic shortages, it is appropriate to discourage
consumption through the price mechanism. It can be seen therefore that the
production for this Project can be consumed in Zambia and that Government's
price policies can affect consumption patterns appreciably. The Government
has the option, until self-sufficiency is reached, of either a gradual reduc-
tion in wholesale/retail prices in real terms 2/ at 6.6% p.a. to restrict
the growth of consumption to a level which is consistent with the growth in
production 3/ or to delay such price reduction for awhile until production
approaches demand. It is felt that it would be more effective if such reduc-
tion commenced now.
1/   IBRD, June 1978, Report No. 814/78.
2/   After adjusting for inflation.
3/   Assumption used for the forecast demand in this Project.



- 35 -
B. Prospects for Coffee Exports and Prices
7.08      Although the coffee produced under this Project is meant for the
domestic market, a brief description of the world market is given below in
view of Zambia's potential for expanding coffee production in the future.
Demand and Supply Outlook
7.09      The world demand for coffee is expected to grow at an average
annual rate of 2.7%, that is from 59.9 million bags of 60 kg in 1974-76 to
89.3 million bags in 1990. Assuming that no further frosts in Brazil and no
significant production shortfalls in other major coffee producing countries
will occur, coffee production is expected to grow at an average annual rate of
3% - from 71.3 million bags in 1974-76 to about 112 million bags in 1990.
Prospects for Prices
7.10      After a heavy frost in Brazil during July 1975 which destroyed most
of Brazil's prospective 1976/77 crop, the prices climbed to a peak of 329
cents/lb in April 1977. But there was a sharp decline of coffee prices during
1977 - averaging 240.8 cents/lb and they continued to decline in June 1978.
This decline in prices would discourage new planting which would result in a
strengthening of coffee markets. The average price is expected to be, in
constant dollars, 116.8 cents/lb for 1979; 92.2 cents/lb for 1980; 85.0
cents/lb for 1982; 104.3 cents/lb for 1990. The net price that a Zambian
exporter would received would be K 1,490 per ton in 1981, K 1,371 per ton
for 1982, K 1,551 for 1985 and K 1,708 for 1990. Comparing these prices with
the estimated total cost of production in Zambia 1,400 per ton, the coffee
production in Zambia would only be marginally competitive in the early year.
7.11      The coffee sorts produced at Misamfu Research Station and at Ngoli
Estate were evaluated by a Nairobi coffee broker and were found to have
good quality as well as the characteristic Kenya flavor. Provided proper
processing is carried out to reduce or eliminate the rather large percentage
of defective beans such as blacks and stinkers, the Zambian coffee could
easily be marketed in Europe. However, Zambia is not a signatory of the
International Coffee Agreement at this time. In the future, of Zambia
entered the coffee export market but transportation and storage facilities
and costs in Dar-es-Salaam could cause problems. An economic rate of return,
assuming that the coffee production from this Project would be exported, is
presented in Chapter IX, paragraph 9.06.
C. Maize Production, Marketing and Pricing
7.12      The incremental maize production within the framework of this Project
will be about 1,970 tons from 1982 onwards. RUCOM would sell the whole crop
to NAMBoard who is the buyer and wholesale marketing agent appointed by the
Zambian Government. Under this Project, RUCOM would construct maize storage



- 36 -
warehouses on Kateshi Estate in order to provide adequate facilities for
NAMBoard to cope with the incremental production. The producer price for maize
(September 1977) is K 6.80 per 90 kg bag or K 75.5 per ton 1/ delivered to any
depot. For purposes of economic analysis, it was assumed that NAMBoard would
export the incremental maize production (see Chapter IX).
VIII. FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Financial Analysis
8.01      The analysis indicates that the proposed coffee project investments
are well conceived, sound and financially justified for Rucom Industries, Ltd.
Assuming that a domestic coffee pricing policy along the line suggested in
this Project (para 7.06) is adopted by the Zambian authorities, the projected
financial rate of return on the total investment for a 25 year operation is
14%.
8.02      The possible financial risks for the Project involve RUCOM's opera-
tional viability as a company. Two important factors are paramount in deter-
mining RUCOM's financial performance: (i) that the existing RUCOM line of
operations become at least break-even in terms of profits; and (ii) that
future projects considered by RUCOM do not jeopardize RUCOM's liquidity.
8.03      Based on the indications given so far by RUCOM management and taking
into account the results of financial analysis of RUCOM there is sufficient
reason to expect that Rucom would improve its performance considerably. How-
ever, it was agreed during negotiations that RUCOM would prepare a plan, sat-
isfactory to the Association, for the improvement and restructuring of its
existing operations which would be submitted together with an indicative
timetable for implementation to the Association before December 31., 1978.
8.04      Since RUCOM has recently begun to consider other expansion programs/
projects for their line of operations, which could represent a financial bur-
den on its overall liquidity in the next few years, some precautions would be
necessary in order to prevent an unsatisfactory financial situation. RUCOM
agreed at negotiations that, until the completion of the Project, RUCOM would
not have: (i) any consolidated long-term debt 1/ three times greater than
the consolidated capital and surplus; 2/ (ii) a ratio of current assets 3/
to current liabilities 4/ less than 1.0.
1/   Any debt more than one year.
2/   The capital, cumulative surplus (income from operations less dividends
distributed) and revenues.
3/   The cash available, marketable securities, receivable collectible and
inventories.
4/   All obligation due within one year.



- 37 -
B. Project Financial Projections
8.05      The Project would have a very positive impact on RUCOM's financial
situation. In fact, this Project would serve as a pivotal point in RUCOM's
becoming a profitable company. A 1979 (year 1) - 1989 (year 11) Project
Projections Balance Sheet, income statement and cash flow is presented in
Tables 3, 4 and 5. The main assumptions underlying the financial projections
are: (a) the coffee prices assumed in accordance with the price policy recom-
mended in Chapter VII, para 7.06, and (b) the theoretical quantity of incre-
mental coffee production was adjusted to 1/ avoid unexpected management and
other problems that may occur to a new commercial plantation.
8.06      With estimated Project investments of US$6.7 million, RUCOM would
require a long-term development loan of US$4.5 million to balance expenditures.
RUCOM also would have to obtain medium-term financing of US$0.5 million in
addition to the development loan. Such financing would be available from
local banks and, if required, from Government. To maintain a sound net worth
structure, additional capital grants of US$1.6 million would be required from
Government to RUCOM. By the end of year 4 RUCOM would have an outstanding
long-term debt-to-equity ratio of 74:25, which would subsequently decline
onwards. The worst current ratio (1.0:1.0) occurs only during the pre-produc-
tion phase of the Project (year 1) and increases after that. These ratios,
although low, are acceptable since they occur during the Project development
period.
8.07      RUCOM would generate profits averaging 18% of gross revenues
(Table 3) and a return on shareholders equity of 8% which is adequate for
this type of Project. The Project's internal financial rate of return on
investments over a period of 25 years would be 14% and the risks most likely
to affect the Project's internal financial rate of return are price decreases
and increases in cost. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared which shows
that if the coffee price decreases by 5%, 10% and 15%, the financial rate of
return drops to 13%, 11% and 9% respectively; and if the total costs increase
by 10% the financial rate of return drops to 12%.
C. Government Budget and Foreign Exchange (Tables 6 and 7)
8.08      The Government would generate revenues including K 0.6 million from
Project related taxes and duties and K 1.3 million in debt service payments
1/   The adjustment is the following:
Project Year               Adjustment Factor
3                          50%
4                          40%
5                          30%
6                          20%
7                           10%



- 38 -
from RUCOM and would receive an IDA credit of K 5.0 million. Total cash in-
flow during the initial 5-year period would be K 6.9 million. Against these
cash inflows, the Government would, during the same period, provide a capital
grant of K 1.4 million and a loan of K 3.7 million to RUCOM 1/; spend K 1.3
million in coffee research and smallholder development; and pay K 0.1 million
for debt service to IDA. Total cash outflows would amount to K 6.5 million,
producing a cumulative net surplus for the Government budget of K 0.4 million
in year 5 which would continue to increase thereafter.
8.09      The inflow over 5 years of foreign exchange as an external loan is
estimated at K 5.0 million; maize exports would earn another K 0.6 million.
The foreign exchange content of Project investments and operations would be
K 3.2 million and debt service on external loan K 0.1 million, thus totalling
K 3.4 million in foreign exchange outflows. The actual inflows exceed out-
flows by K 2.2 million. However, if coffee imports were permitted equal to
that which would be produced by this Project, the savings through import
substitution of coffee produced under the Project would be K 1.0 million,
for the 5 year development period, resulting in a positive effect on Zambia's
foreign exchange balance of K 3.2 million and continuing to increase there-
after.
D. SmallhoLder Farmers' Benefits
8.10      Cash flow projections for the pilot program for smallholder farmers
are given in Table 8. Assuming a parchment coffee price of K 1.56 per kg
and a coffee area per farm family of 0.25 ha, the average return per man-day
is estimated at K 2 for unirrigated and K 4 for irrigated areas which compares
with the actual market wage rate of K 1.5. Assuming an average family size
of six persons, the national average per capita income of the smallholder
farmers at present value is currently estimated at about US$45.00 including
subsistence. The per capita income would increase by about $70, for non-
irrigated coffee plots, and US$120.00 for an irrigated coffee.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
9.01      The following benefits would be realized as a result of the Project:
(a)  Consolidation and development of the coffee sub-sector
to meet national, economic and social goals as have been
pointed out in paragraphs 1.06 and 4.01.
1/   Includes a provision for a medium-term financing for RUCOM of US$0.5
million (paragraph 7.10).
2/   Calculations based on 8 years and discounted at 10%.



- 39 -
(b) Incremental production on an average of 800 tons of clean
coffee per annum at full development. This would make a
contribution to the reduction of potential coffee imports
of about an average of K 1.8 million per annum at full
development.
(c) Incremental production of 2,000 tons of maize per annum
at full development would contribute to export earnings
of about K 0.2 million per year.
(d) Benefit about 600 smallholder farmers in the Northern
Province by increasing their real income and standard
of living.
(e) Provide employment for about 900 persons on an average
per year at full development in addition to about 64
skilled and semi-skilled staff positions.
(f) Lay down a sound technical and financial basis for a
progressive smallholders development scheme, principally,
and estate coffee production which would make a sub-
stantial contribution to diversifying the agricultural
production by replicating the Project in other parts
of the country as recommended in the 1975 Agricultural
and Rural Sector Survey. 1/
(g) Train Zambian staff in application of the latest coffee
technology.
B. Economic Rate of Return
9.02      Over a 25-year period, the Project would have an internal economic
rate of return (IERR) of about 21% (Table 9). Costs and benefits are expressed
in constant price terms, with October 1978 prices as base. In the calculation
of all economic Project costs and benefits, foreign exchange has been shadow-
priced at a rate of US$1= K 1.07, to reflect the economic values of foreign
exchange in the Zambian economy, which diverges from the financial exchange
rate primarily because of quantitative import restrictions.  Labor wages have
been shadow-priced at 50% of market wage rates. The underlying assumption
is that the casual labor would normally be employed, together with other
members of his family, on his own farm, however, there exists underemployment
on the farm what restricts actual labor income below the family's potential.
As a result of temporary off-farm employment under the Project, the net value
of farm production attributable to the member moving into hired employment is
assumed to be reduced by the equivalent of about 50% of market wage rates.
1/   IBRD - Report 8413 - ZA October 20, 1975.



- 40 -
Besides this labor impact, no other economic cost of production foregone is
included in the analysis, which benefits is calculated on incremental basis;
because part of the Project area (50 ha at Ngoli) is actually under coffee
and the remaining area (400 ha at Kateshi) is virgin land where nothing is
being produced at present. The value of the Project's incremental coffee
output is based on robusta import parity prices as it would primarily replace
coffee imports, while maize has been valued on the basis of export parity
prices. All Project costs, except the smallholder component, and the costs
of future Project identification/preparation are included in this analysis.
The smallholder component costs are excluded, as it is not possible to
quantity the benefits due to the pilot nature of the component, however, if
the pilot scheme succeeds as expected it would lead to an IERR in the range
of 20% to 30%. The costs of the future Project identification/preparation
and coffee research are excluded because of the fact that its benefits
would be obtained in future projects only.
C. Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
9.03      Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to examine the effect
of changes in the cost and benefit assumptions on the IERR of the Project.
This gave the following results: Changes in Assumptions: (a) benefits
reduced by 10% - IERR 18%; (b) Total Project Costs increased by 10% - IERR
18%; and (c) costs increased by 10% and benefits reduced by 10% - IERR (15%);
(d) one year delay in output - IERR 17%; (e) if foreign exchange were valued
at prevailing exchange rates (US$0.83 = K1.0), the IERR would be 19%.
9.04      One of the risks of the Project is that implementation would proceed
at a slower rate than anticipated, as a result of RUCOM's inability to attract
and retain good managers. This risk has been minimized by the inclusion in
the Project of technical assistance to strengthen RUCOM, and also requested
that the appointment of two key staff positions - Project Manager and Engineer-
ing Manager - would be condition of credit effectiveness. Moreover, estimated
coffee production during the Project period has been phased, anticipating
some delays in implementation. The second possible risk is that since commer-
cial coffee production is not yet well established in Zambia, there may be
some uncertainties concerning attainment of the projected coffee production.
This risk has been minimized by the fact that although potential for high
yields has been demonstrated at the research station located adjoining to the
Project area, the yield targets have been conservatively estimated at less
than half of the existing potential.
9.05      The coffee produced in this Project is marginally competitive for
export. Zambia's competitiveness in the world coffee trade is adversely
affected by the country's land-locked location and over valued currency. In
an unlikely event that the entire output of the Project is to be exported, the
IERR will drop to 7% and 4% with shadow-pricing of foreign exchange and at
prevailing exchange rates, respectively. It is unlikely that the import parity
price would fall below the domestic cost of production for any significant
length of time and therefore the Project would remain economically sound on
import substitution grounds.



- 41 -
X. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points:
(a)  The post of Plantation Manager, Engineering Manager and
Research Agronomist would be internationally recruited
and that IDA would approve their terms of reference and
would be consulted prior to the appointments about their
suitability in terms of their qualifications and expe-
rience; and a qualified counterpart to the Plantation
Manager, Engineering Manager, Research Agronomist would
be employed by June 30, 1979 (paragraph 6.04).
(b)  At least one Zambian Coffee Smallholder Development
Officer and Research Agronomist would be appointed
prior to the commencement of their respective compo-
nents, that is Smallholder Development and Coffee
Research (paragraph 6.04).
(c)  The Ngoli Estate legal title would be transferred to
RUCOM not later than December 31, 1979 (paragraph 6.01).
(d)  The Government shall cause RUCOl to receive a permanent
permit to divert up to 43,000 m of water per day from
Lukupa River by August 31, 1979 (paragraph 5.03).
(e)  The coffee pulpery at Kateshi Estate would have a water
re-circulation system which would minimize the volume of
effluent water; and that no water from the pulpery would
be returned to the river which supplies Kasama town
(paragraph 5.17).
(f)  GOZ would increase its shareholding participation in
RUCOM by US$1.6 million (paragraph 4.31).
(g)  GOZ would onlend approximately US$4.5 million to RUCOM
at not less than 10% per annum including a grace period
of 5 years for a term of 20 years (paragraph 4.31).
(h)  GOZ would provide or cause to be provided to RUCOM the
additional funds of about US$500,000 in case they cannot
secure the necessary loans (paragraph 4.31).
(i)  The proposed procurement procedures would be followed
(paragraph 4.33).
(j)  RUCOM would maintain separate account regarding coffee
operation; and the accounts would be audited by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association and would
be submitted to the Association within six months of the
end of their fiscal year.



- 42 -
(k)  RUCOM and MLA would provide quarterly progress reports
and a Project Completion Report within six months
of completion of disbursements (paragraph 6.06).
(1)  RUCOM and MlA agreed that with the assistance of consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association would
assist them in monitoring and evaluating their project
components (paragraph 6.07).
(m)  RUCOM would prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, for the improvement and restructuring of its exist-
ing line of operations which would be submitted to the
Association together with an indicative timetable for its
implementation before December 31, 1978 (paragraph 8.03).
(n)  RUCOM would not have (i) any consolidated long-term debt
three times greater than the consolidated net worth; (ii)
a current assets/current liabilities ratio of less than
1.0 (paragraph 8.04).
(m)  Plans for small holder coffee development in the North-
western Province would be submitted to the Association
for approval in advance of their execution (paragraph
4.23).
10.02     Conditions of Effectiveness of the Credit Agreement would be:  (a)
the completion of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to IDA between the
Government and RUCOM Industries Ltd. (paragraph 4.31); (b) the appointments
of the Project Manager and Engineering Manager - after prior consultation
with IDA on qualifications and experience (paragraph 6.04).
10.03     Conditions of Disbursement would be that MLA had appointed at least
one Zambian Smallholder Coffee Development Officer and the internationally
recruited Coffee Research Agronomist for their respective categories under
the credit agreement (paragraph 6.04).
10.04     Subject to obtaining the above assurances, the proposed Project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million on standard terms to
the Republic of Zambia.



ZAMBIA
COPPER PRODYUCTION PROJECT                                        Table 1
Sunsary Of Project Costs
Fe ceotage
(K '0005                                     (US18  000)              41stari-
Foreign                        ~~~~~button
Exchange  Local  ForeignofRg
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Total   1   Ant  Coats  E-change   Total   hune Costa
ESTATE COFFEE PRDJTO  51  RCSEN
Baseline Coats
Land clearing and  preparation during development period                           104       84       33        21        6      248  65   162       104       194       298      6
Vehicles, implements and equipment                                                 245       75        65       39         3      427  81   346        97      415        512    10
Development period  agriculturtal vehicles, operational coats                       21       23        23       24        18      109  74    81        34       97        131     3
Development period crop inputs matarial                                             34       40       53        61       48      236  72   169        80       203       283      5
Development period labor wages                                                      34       64        79      109        74      360   -     -       432       -        432      8
-Irrigation cotst                                                                           72       86       160       89       32       439  53   233    247         280       527    10
Estate entrance and acceno tracks                                                   40       10        10       10        7        77  48    3?       48        44        92      2
Proce.Saing machinery                                                               98       32      115        36       37       308  88   247        74      296       370      7
Buildings and structures                                                           202       36      320         7       12      577  49   283    332          340       692    :.3
Developoent period nanagenent and administrative tosts                              96      116      125       134      130      601  28   166    322          199       721    L4
Rousing                                                                            370      133      109       101       -       713  38   270       532       324       956    >~7
Staff training                                                                      11        7         5        5        5        33 62      20       16       24        40       1
Project identification and preparation                                              -        -        83        84       -       167  50    84        99       101       200      4
Project monitoring and evaluation                                                    5        5        5         5        5       25  50      12      16        14        30   __
Total Baseline Costa                                   1,322~    ~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~ 71-1  1, 185  72_5    327   4,32-0 4;9 2,1710  2 ,65-3  2,531    5 ,18-4  Y1500
Continge.cies
Physical                                                                           146       89      141        81       44      501  49   247    305          296       601      12
Price                                                                               35       89      233       215      172      784  43   336       535       406       941      18
Total Contingencies                                                         201      178      394       296      216   1,285  46   585        840       702     1,542      30
Total Estate Coffee Production god Processing                            1.523       889   1,579  1j21l~         593   5.605  482,695  3.493   3.233            6,726   130
SMALLHIOLDER DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Baseline Coost
-Vehicles                                                                            18                 .                           18 61       11       9       13         Zj2     9
Rous ing                                                                            16       -                  -        -         16 30        5      13        6         19       7
Dnvelop~not period oPerational expenses                                             31       30       43        44       46       194  37     71      148       85       233      84
Training                                                                             2       -         -        -        -          278         2      -         2          2      7
Northwestern Sma11holder development                                               40       40        40       40       50       210  37      78     160       90        250    722
Project identification and preparation
and nonitoring and evaluation                                                    5         5        5        95      100      210  50   105       125      12_5       250     32
Total Baseline Costa                                                       112       75       88       179      196       650  42   272    454         322        776   lEO
Contin&mencica
physical                                                                          11        7        8         8       10       44  42      18      31        22        53       7
PriceTtlCntnece                                                                    6       12       22        31       42      113  42    47        79        56       135     17
Total Contingencies                                     ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~17  19  30  39     52       1 57  84    6-5   110O        78       188      24
Total Snal1ho1der Developmsent Component                                   129       94      118       218      248      807  42   33'?    564         4:00      964   1-24
RESEARCHI COMPONENT
Baseline Costs
Vehicles                                                                             8       -         -        -        -             65       5       4        6         10       2
Machinery and equipment                                                              3       13        -   -         -             18  77    14         5       17         22      5
Buildings end inatallationa                                                         10       45        -   -         -             55  40    22        40       26         66     15
DeveIoPmsent period operational expanses                                            46       55        60       60        60      281  33    92    226         i1l        337     77
Training                                                                             1        1        -        -        -          275         2      -         2          2      1
Total Baseline Costa                                                         70      114        60       60       60       364  37   135       275      162       437    101
Coot ingenc ies
Physical                                                                             7       11         6        6        6        36  37      13      27       16         43     10
Pins                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 16   15   22   29    85 37  31   65   37   102  253
Total Cootingencics                                                          10       27        21       28        35      121  37    44        92       53        145     33
Total Roseareb Component                                                     80      141        81       88       95       485  37   179    367         215        582    133
SUMMARY
Total Baseline Costs                                                     1,504       900    1,333       964      633   5,334  47  2,5173,7302                   639       IC
Contingenciea
Physical
Price                                                       ~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~164  107  135  95      60      581  48       4.8    278     363        697     11
64      117      290       268      243       982  42    416    679    499         1.178      19
Total Contingencies                                                        22L2                                   0      ,6        4~ 1    4             r       
Total project Costs                                                      1.3?.2              .7        .Z         3      .9           JA    .±!        3.83      ,275 4
Junce 2, 1978                                                                                                                                                    35          ._;



ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
Production, Importation and Apparent Consumption
Actual 1968-1977, Estimate 1978 and Projections for 1979-1999 1/
7/                                               8
Domestic Coffee Production                     Coffee Importation          Assumption I                                    Assmption II
Coffee                                                   Per                                    Per
Misamfu                    Small-     Project      Total                                       Capita     Total                      Capita          Total
Popu-   Research  Ngoli   Rucon   holders  Incremental  Produc- Green   Instant              Retail31Consump; , Consump-  Surplus (+)        Consumy-      Consump-    Surplus (+)
- Year     lation  Station   Estate  Estate   Farms   Production    tion    Coffee  Coffee 6/ Total   Price-   tion '    tion    Deficit (-1 5/  tion _                 tion      Deficit C-)
('000)   (ton)    (ton)   (ton)    (ton)        (ton)      (ton)    (ton)   (ton)             (K/ton)   (kg)      (ton)       (ton)           (kg)          (ton)        (ton)
Actual
1968    3,950       1        -       -        1         -            2       115      425       540    n.a.     0.140        542      -              0.140           542           -
1969    4,060       2        -       -        1         -            3       120      300      420    n.a.      0.104        423      -              0.104           423           -
1970    44273       5        -       -        2         -             7      125      468      593    n.a.      0.140        600      -              0.140           600           -
1971    4,39u       7        1       -        2         -           10        41      463       504    n.a.     0.117        514      -              0.117           514           -
1972    4,530       5        -       -        2         -             7      151      204       355    n.a.     0.080        362      -              0.080           362           -
1973    4,680       6        4       -        2         -           12        86      199       285    n.a.     0.063        297      -              0.063           297           -
1974    4,830      11        2       -        1         -           14       127      594       721    n.a.     0.150        735      -              0.150           735           -
1975    4,980       8       14       -        3         -           26        54      328       382    n.a.     0.082        408       -             0.082           408           -
1976    5,140      10       19       -        4         -           33        39      331       370    n.a.     0.080        403      -              0.080           403           -
1977    5,270      10       52       -        4         -           66        10       10        20    4,840    0.016         86      -              0.016            86           -
Estimate
1978    5,410      10       47       -        4         -           61       n.a.     n.a.      n.a.   4,840    n.a.         n.a.      -             n.a.           n.a.           -
Projiections
1979    5,550               28       -        4         -           44       -        -         -      4,840    0.080        444       -400          0.140           777          - 733
1980    5,700               37       13       4         -           54       -        -         -      4,840    0.080        456       -402          0.140           798          - 744
1981    5,870               46       28       4          41        119       -        -         -      4,598    0.082        481      -362           0.143           839          - 720
1982    6,050               51       42       4         133        230       -        -         -      4,322    0.087        526      -296           0.148           895          - 665
1983    6,230               47       31       4         320        402       -        -         -      4,019    0.091        567       -165          0.155           966          - 564
1984    6,420               41       14       4         575         634      -        _         -      3,456    0.100        642       -  8          0.164         1,052          - 418
1985    6,610               39        8       4         774        825       -        -         -      2,900    0.112        740      + 85           0.178         1,177          - 352
1986    6,810               45       25       4         781        855       -        -         -      2,900    0.113        770      + 85           0.180         1,226          - 371
1987    7,010               52       45       4         642        743       -                         2,900    0.114        799      - 56           0.182         1,276          - 533
1988    7,220               48       34       4         617        703       -        -         -      2,900    0.115        830       -127          0.184         1,328          - 625
1989    7,440               41       14       4         743        802       -        -         -      2,900    0.116        863       - 61          0.186         1,384          - 582
1990    7,660               39        8       4         847        898       -        -         -      2,900    0.117        896          2          0.188         1,440          - 542
1991    7,890               45       25       4         781        855       -        _         -      2,900    0.118        931       - 76          0.190         1,429          - 644
1992    8,130               52       45       4         642        743       -        -         -      2,900    0.119        967       -224          0.192         1,560          - 817
1993    8,370               48       34       4         617        703       -        -         -      2,900    0.120      1,004       -301          0.194         1,624          - 921
1994    8,630               41       14       4         743        802       -        -         -      2,900    0.121      1,044       -242          0.196         1,691          - 889
1995    8,890               39        8       4         847        898       -        -                2,900    0.122      1,085       -187          0.198         1,760          - 862
1996    9,160               45       25       4         781        855       -        -         -      2,900    0.123      1,127       -272          0.200         1,832          - 977
1/  Based on the assumption of a zero rise for 1979-81 and an average of 1.5% p.a. rise for 1982 onwards in per capita real income; an income
elasticity of demand of 0.6 and price elasticity of demand of -0.44.
2/  Based in Table 1 - Selected Indicators of Monthly Digest of Statistics, Vol. XIII, Nos. 4 and 5, April/May 1977 issued by Central
Statistical Office, Lusaka for year 1971-76; Table 5.1, Annex 5 of Agricultural and Rural Sector Survey, Vol. II - World Bank Report,
No. 841a-2a for years 1980, 1995.
3/  Retail prices expressed in (October) 1978 value terms for the period 1978-80 remain  constant to discourage consumption through the
price mechanism. For the period 1981-85 reflects required reductions as necessary to absorb the increased domestic production and,
eventually, to the level (K 2,900/ton) where retail prices equal economic import parity price.
4/ The high per capita consumption in the period 1968-71 reflects mainly the expatriates' coffee consapticn. The per -rpita consumption of
1977-78 are not representative because of restriction of coffee import by the limited amount of foreign exchange available. The projec-
tion was based on a per capita consumption of 0.080 kg (Assumption I) that almost reflects the average consumption of the period 1972/76 and the per
capita consumption in Tanzania. The impact of higher per capita consumption, like 0.140 kg (Assumption II) that reflects the average for a period 1968/71, was also calculated.
5/  Given the assumptions underlying the supply and demand projections, the projected surpluses represent practical minima.  It was assumed
that the small surplus (170 ton) in 1985-86 could be stored  and as a buffer stock to cover the deficit in the following years.
6/  Converted in green coffee equivalent.
7/  Projection based on 0.080 kg per capita consumption.
8/  Projection based on 0.140 kg per capita consumption.
June 1978



ZAMB1A
COFFEE FRODUCTION PROJECT
(K 'EDO)
Ore-Projec  Autuale ed ForecastWithRout Projet Puccoa1rjc    rjote
1q74  1975  1976  1977     1978        ~~~1979     190         98        1992        1983      1979    1990    1901    1902    19013    194            99      1986      907,    1980       19
Actual   Actul   ActoAl   Aetoa   F-ecess    Foreeset  Forecast  Forecast  Forecast  FerrEtr   Year    Yen"2  Year 3  Yea  4  Year 3  Year6Year 7  Yea  8  Year 9Year 10  Year 11
01AS1C 6IRODUCSTENDATA
Coffee - Clear Coffee ('900 tee)                   2--                 -                                  8         30          74         93         70        -                  41      233       320     373       774      781      642      617       743
R.aetrd Coffer ('000 tee)  2/5                                         -         -             2          45         67          84         70        -        -         37      120      288      317       697      703      578      235       669
OteEso  ('000 tee)-                                          -         -         -                      187        107         107        187        187        822   2,301   1,781   1.973   1,873   1,973   1.873   1.973   1,873   1,073    1.873
COFFE  PRICE  (per toe)  3/                                                                          4,320       4,320      4,040      3,800       3,330      4.320   4,320   4,040   3,000   3,330   3,060   2,3580  2.550   2,558   2,558               2,558
Sale of Coffee           -         -         -         -         -           ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~ ~~~~~108  194  289  363  302  -  -   149      438    1.927   1.372   1.777   1,793   1,474   1,415    1,786
Soeo   aa   K75.3/tee)-                            -         -          -                      14           4   14          14         14              82        98      134      149      149      149      149      14.9     149       149       149
Ode of Other Produte                               861    2,004    2.662    2.740    2.32             6,025     72874       8.183      8.533       9040         -        -        -                           -        -        -                    
TOtal ELovee-                          861    2,004    2,462    2,749    2,832            6,147       8,082      0,486      8,910      9,336          Of       90      283      603   1,168   1.731   1.926   1,942   1,623   1,564    1,955
0ARI0L1 KEXPENSES
Coffee P-ed-ct- Costa (K 1278/toe)  4/             -         -         -         -          -            32         59          86        187        89         -        -         47       233      368      661      881      898      739       709       805
2.1icr prodOmtiee Coets (K 72.7/toe)               -         -         -         -                       14          14         14         14         14          60       95      129      143      143      143      143      143      143       143       143
Ocher  roducts proderoi- Coect39                           1.549    2.502    2,666    2.622           5,290      6.865      7.221       7.592 - 8.025            -        -        -        -        -        -                  -        -        --
sobre-I                                391    1,549    3,502    2,666    2,622            5,341       6,937      7,321      7.713      8,128          60       95      176      296      311       804   1,034   1,041        B8e2     852        "9a
varfable MacfEe                                    270       433       160        74       210          806      1,143      1,165       1,197      1,228           2        3      187      308      833      917      985      801       741     72.2       *37
(A. Ferrar  ef Rev-n)                          (31)      (23)        (6)       (3)       (7)        (13)        (14)       (14)       (13)        (13)        (3)      (3)    (38)      (51)      (56)    (53)      (46)    (46)    (46)       (46)       (44)
FateteOehe-d                                  41        61       123         97       120         160         168        176        183        195         -        -        -        -        -                                                
GE..aral Adi.irtstratfu                            462       595       303       431        470         528         613        627        640        653         -        -        -                 -        -         -        -        -        --
Ceffee Oa,.bormot sod Adi.tes-rttie          .                              -          -    .           -           .          -          -          -          209       137      146      157      153      153      153      1)  153       153            705
Olpelair3                                   71        86       101       121        173         285        240         240        240        240                   5944     7   70            798   79      7979  79                   79             9
Subtetel                               373       742        609       669       763         893       1,023      1,043      1.065      1,087         163      196      o216     035       232      737     2332      232      232      2132       02-
Op-erat...aI marie                                -303      -287      -449      -393       -553         -87        122         122        132        141        -161    -193    -109         74      4 3      405      660       669      589      hp        6
(A. Paroet ef tat...ur)                       (-35)    (-14)    (-17)    (-23)    (-20)              (1)         (2)        (1)         (1)        (2)        -        -      (-39)      (12)    (36)    (410)      (34)    (34)    (35)       (v)        (4
OTHER INC0OME OR EXPENSES
Icce....c                                            4         2         7         4         27          62        133         115        107         93          72      182      262      325       346      336      3313     RE       067      286       221
Eovee.tac  Subedy                                 -230      -230      -200        -         -           -           -          .          -          -           -        -        -        .        -        -         -        .        -        --
Other                                                4         6        -6         -8       -           --                                -          -           -                 -        -        -         -        -        -        -        --
Subtotal                              -750      -254       -99         -4        27         62          133        115         107         85         70      tOO      262       309i     340      336      313      290      267       24-5      721
Rocsa  Befor  Tar                                  -53       -33      -350      -391      -580         -149        -11           7         25         46        -233    -375    -371    -751           75      349      347      379      242      236        404
YccessaTao6/                                                             -            7         4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_3  47  51  M-    Z -      -                  -        -                 -        -          7-
Net Incme-33                                     -33       -330      -392      -380         -148        -18        -36         -22         -5       -733      -375    -371    -251         75      349      347       579      242      236       64k
(A. Fer-et of Re--cu)                 (-6)      (-2)    (-13)    (-22)    (-20)             (-2)        -         (-4)         -    -              (-375)  (-9033)  (-131)  (_ 41)         (4)     (20)      (18)     (00)     (1s)    (15)       (as)
(A. rere-c  ef Rqitty                 (-3)      (-2)    (-13)    (-21)    (-18)            (-4)         (-1)      (-1)         (-1)       -           (-7)   (-is)      (-9)    )-5)       )2)      (8)    ( 7)        (6)    (5)        (5)      (.8)
Flue Ocate)
C,eoueroo  sot oc- e-272                        -305       -653   -1,246   -1026         -1,975      -1,993    -2,029    -2.011        -2,056     -2,208  -2,601  -3,000  -3,281  -3,711  -2,862  -2,513  -7,136   -3,894  -1,658    -1,254
BREAK EVE ANEALYSTS
ftclodEeg Etre
Brek Eve  tRoo-     (K '000)         7        1,050      3,230   10,150   22.308   10,900           6,070      7,310      7,4503    8,190        8,360         -        -        570       469      415      440      505      305       590      5CF5     505
Beth.  Ever Coffee Pfcr- (K/toe)  8/             -         -         -         -          -           -           -          -          -           -          -                 -      3, 830   i, 440      890      725      720       807      910      750
Brat Even Coffe  Fredoetei9..                                        -         -          -           -           -                                                              i41       121      120      145      00   2 07  2078             200      300
(ten ef eeed coff-e)
1oclodi.g lct-rcst
Break E-e  R--oo  (K '080)           7/       I,803      3,210   10,170   72,170  11,285            7,330      0,260       0,270      9,005      9,090         -                ,1.60   1,100   1,035   1,073   1,iAO  1,134D   1,080    1,090             985
Brek Evc Coffee P06cr (K/too)  0/                -         -         -          -                     -           -          -          -           -                   -        -       9,150   3,590   7,073   1,490  0.62(3   i,5i0    9,855   i,4w0
Brook Even Coffer Predoctf           9/          -         -         -         -          -           -                      -                      -          -        -         310      290      795      350      (460    445       425       405      385
(rr ef roated ceffc-)
1/Ppred to Octkar, 1978ple ancostatrtthpojtcueetnto
haIeo-cheet p-ej-tteu. (MahO    7, -cd  -th floe proje-ti...  (Tbhle.
4/nAred that 1 teo of clear ct ffc p-doc.. 0.9 cots of ce..etd coffee,
3/ At projoct proirutio.. iecRodas dopr-cfstEc o,f office hitdltcf , hnunr,  -ekohop/rio-
bolldinos ard sdifriet-tl-  -ehEtl-s
6/j nale-d ,o R,0icc lf           -- ecs   -a  hith0 Es a 2007, ownd o-hotdlar  cc R-r,
I/ KRpr.e..ta  ---ou   at  hi6th the -ve blsh   margie rquoa.       c-.1   bE.nerc 
4/ Reprr...ot..ff.. plt-  ot which eke-01 -egfohl  osrof             .5o t-earibhlrrep--o
9/ Repre...nto  rho q..ctEty ef  -atedc..ff.. prudoced ot ohie  the -ocibla  -terieS  eqoOl
nc--tiarlahi  cOpe......
30.. 2, 1970



ZAI1B16
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
Ruco7SInd Itrie8 Limited
B1alace Sheet. 17-8 rePjet Actuals and Forecast
1979-83 Aggregated Without Projec   rjcin
1979-89 Proiect projections
(KC '000)
Pro-proiect Actuals and Forecast         Without Project Projeotloete I/                                         PTO ject Proiectio-s  I/
1974    1975    1976    1977       1978
AAct,uall  Actual  AtUal  Actual  Forecast   1979  1990  1981  1982  1983   Year 1 Year' 2  Year 3  year 4  Year 5  Yeax 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 20 ~ L11
(1979)-g  (1783   M,9rl T  (!W2  (1-973)  MIT  (I95T  MTM8T  M5~7"   m                 (909
Fixed Assets                                           1354    1515    1552    1734       2262      3366  3366  3366  3366  3366   14472   14B84    57143    60)41    6120    6278    6308    6)402    6)450   614914         6695
Leas Depreciation                                       192     277      378     482       63        860  110   1340  1580  182       ..oi    103    1513    1831    21501   21469    2788    3107         3)2                146
Subtotal                                    1262    1238    2174    1252       1607      2506  2266  2026  1786  1554      3568    3681   14230   14210    3970    3§          35       329      3024    274       263].
Current Assets                                                                                                                                                                                        9     50      169        62
Stocks  2/                                           262      532      467     580       718       895   895   895   895   895    10145    17237    1507    1776    1649    1766    1551    1539         18        69       32
Acecous t  Receivable                                477      506      519     484       434       586   586   586   586   586       586      586  -   86-   -586-- --86-  -586          586      386      586     586       586
FundsanDeposit                                        -       --       100      -                   ---                               -       -        -       -         -       -                 -       -        -        -
Cash adBank Balance                                  .72       9~2    21       100         8         8     a      8     6      8      781      28     2_8       78       30     1       *         868    1026    11614      114014
Subtotal                                     8l12    2130    1201    1164      1160      148   18 1491489          1489    1659    18146    2121    2390    21465    2507    2663                3192    3"82      3612
Less Current Liabilities
Shoort-terms Ioane?Overdratfts                        51      173       16     277       639       936   830   688   533   360       936      830     688      533      360     187      -         -       -        -        -
Accounte Payable and AccrualS           2~~~~64  320     413      587       756      736   756   756   756   756        756     756      756      736     756      736      756      756     756      75_6      75,6
Subtotal                                     313     493      429      864     1395      1693  1586  1444  1289  1116    1692    1586    1444    1289    1116           943      756     756      756      756       756
Net Working Capital
Ret Meets                        1~~~~~~~~~~658    1873    1946    1552  1372  2303  2169   071 - 196   919    3535    3911    4907    511         5319    5373    5147       51      5140    54__
IOIASLIT2SE
L.ong-term Debts
Iistico Loan  3/                                                                                   700   584   522   459   397       70       384     522      459              3g        7       2A 
IDA/Government Loan  4/_                                                                                                             16      p8       o        40                                          5       A          8
Subtotal                                      --         -       -      -       -         700   584   522   459   397   21165    27614    3612   .1L          3877    3582    3289    2W         77011   ~!2l       -8
NET WORTH
Company Equfty - capital                               1850    1850    1850    1850       1850      1850  1850  1850  1850  1850    1850    1850    1850    1850    1850    1850    1850   .1850    1850   1850                1850
Incose free Operations                                 -272    -305    -655   -1246    41826    -1975 -1993 -2029 -2051 -2056   -2208   -2601   -3008   -3281   -3711   -2862   -2515   -2136   -1894  -1658                  3.7514
Capital Grants                                           80     328      751.    948      1348      1728  1728  1728  1728  1728    1728    1928    71453    2803    2803    2803    2803    2803    2883  _2803               2803
Total Net worth                             1658    1873    1946    1552        1372     1603  1585  1549  1527  1522    1370    1177    1795    1372    11442    1791    7138    2517    2759   2995               3399
Total Net Worth Plus Liabi lities           1658    1873    1946    1552       1372      2303  2169  2071  1986  1919    3535    3941   14907    5311    5319    5373   5s14'    535:2-  51460   31100              5487
L.ong-cetm  Debt/EqaitY RAtio                           --       -        -       -         -      30:70 27:73 25:75 23:77 21:79   61:39   70:30   714:26   714:26    73:77  67:33    61:39 -514:46  149:51  145:55  -38:62
Current Assets/Current Liability Ratio                2.6:1   2.3:1   2.8:1   1.3:1    0.8:1   0.9:1 0.9:1   1:1 1.2:1 1.3:1           1:1   1.7:1   1.5:1  1C.9:1    2.2:1  2.6:1   3.5:1    3.9:1  h.2:1  14.5:.1    14.8:.1
Ef xpressed in constant (October, 1978) prices aiRconsistent with project cost estimates
income statement (Table ) and cash flow projections (Table 3.
2/Includes depreciation of: vehicles, implements asd equipmsent, irrigation, access trucks,
procesaing; manhinery and buildings. asmrtiastion of land clearing and incremental preparation,
crop inpuits, labor wages and vehiclea operational costs.
5/Patent company loan 10 years repayment and 102. interest.
4/On-lending froms Government to Rucom at 107. interest, 20 years repayment with 5 years grac..
June 2, 1978



ZLAMOIA
COFFIE PRODUCTION PROJECT
R.com Industries Limited
Casih Flew Projcin
(8 '000)
Without Project Aggregate
Cash Flew Plcjectinee                                                                                                                         Project InCremental caob Flew
in~ Constant Prices.                                PoetnceetaCahFw,iCnsnt Price  I/                                                               inCurrent Pr~ices2/
1979  1980  1901  1982  1983   Year 1  Yea  2  Yea-           Ya  Y     ear8Yar-             Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Yea  10  Year 11   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 3
__    __ (1-979)    (19flO)  (1981)  (187  (98)(nl) Os)   (1986)   (1967)  (oo8)                    (189       (175)7  (180)   (198T1)  (1903)  T ~
G~ASH INF020W
G.R,Z. CoPital Graets                         380 --             --        -       --       200       585     3350      -        --       --       --       --       --         --         --        230      655      465      --
Revnu  Cres Op-rtiona  3                     5989  8082  8480  8910  9356           62       98      283      605    1166    1721    1926    194.2    1623    1564            1855          67      114       351      805    1656
Short-tern' 1,o50, Oenedrafts                 936   830   688   533   360          --       --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --         --         --       --        --       --       --
Ind cn4                                700    -     --                      - --  --  --  --       --       --       --       --                               -          .-                   -       -         --
IDA      5/                                                                     11-65     715      920      9390     --       -         -        -         -       -          -         1515      770    1030        400o     -
Total Cash legilon               8005  8912  9174  9443  9716         1527    1019       1678    1345    1166    1721        1926     1942    1623    1564         1832       isdo      iji4    8096      1670    1656
CANH OUTFLOW
Capital I-vetnsnts  6/                       1104 -pu---                  -       i         412       859      298       79      158       38       94       48       44        201       1151       465    1053       41      145
Spare Parts                                    --22                                           6         7        3      --       --       --       --       --       --         --          23         7        8        4      --
,Coffee Froduetion Espe...e.
14eebani.nA Operations                                                            12       22       29       34       36        38       42       42       40       40         42         12       24        34       42       47
Crop Toput  - Materials-14                                                                 30       50       79       98      113       129      119      118      118       199          14       33        59       98      128
Labor, Wages                                                                      30       67      106      172      237      366      457       461      388      388       444          32        77     133       232      375
Irrigatlen                                                   ~~       ~ ~~~~            ~~~     ~~~~~~6  9  23  27  28  28  28  28    28       28         28          6        10       28       36       38
Accesa.Teaka                                                    -4                          6        7        8        9         9        9        8        9        9          9          4         7        8       10       12
Land Dfleviptnet                                                                  42       34        6        3      --       --        --       --       --       --         --          43        37        7        4      --
piolpery htpenaes                                                                  1        6        6       to       14       15       i6        16      iS        iS        18           1        7         7       12       18
Millieg Expenses                                                                 --       --        16       17       18       20        22       22       22       22         22        --        --        19       21       24
R-ating hsPen...-                                                                           1      _15       17       29       20        25       26       _26      23         23-       --       1A        21        21       26
Subtotal                            29    52      77    97    81       109       175      258      367      480      609      719      723       657      645       705         112      196      313      476       668
Noise Production Expe.ssa
Meebanited Operations-                               -      -    --     -         52       55       40       41        38       38       39       38       38       38         38         54        61       47       51       59
Crmp loputs- Materials                                                            23       37       50       56       56       56        56       36       56       56         56         24       41        59       69       73
T,abor Wag..                                                                       6        9       13       14        14       14       14       14       14       14         14          6        10       16       19        18
Subtotal                            11    11    11    11    11          81       101      103      I11l      8  108       108      108      108ID         108       188          84      112      122       139      143
Other, Products Froduetion Expenses          5392  6065  7331  7392  8025          - --   -   -   -            -- -   -          --       --        --       --       --        --          --       --       --        - -      --
Masagesien  sad Adni.sitration                 688   783   803   825   847         114      132      141       152      148      148      148      148      146       148       148         Ill      142      173      198       209 
Other Expenditures, Mnttr,vloir80                       9    12    13  ,11           8        9             5   8                  5 8              5                             5          ,5        5        5
Pro,ject Td-ntifistion and Preparation          -  -              -=-_=-                    --        83        84     ---    --          --        --     _=_        -        --          ---      -=-        83        84      -
Subtotal                          7304  7720  8124  8538  8975         2435      831    1456      1820      820    1028      1013      1070      966      950      1161       i486       927     1757      1319    1170
Inron'eYaTt71                                  --       7    43    47    51        --       --        --       --       --       --       --       --        --       --        --          --       --       --        --       --
1nterest Faytsnts                               62   133   115   107    95          72      182       262      325      348      036      313      292      267       244       221         75       187      279       351      372
ONerdraft RePsy-tent                           639   936   930   688   533         --       --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --         --         --       --        --       --       --
Laa ie~payn'et                                  _    _116    62    63    62                 --        -                           32      237       2~32     832      232       232         --       --        --       --      _--
Total Cash Gotfiow                8005  8922  9174  9443  9716         7507    1013    1716    1315    i118    1596    1555            0600     1465     1126       i615       is61      mL4    2036       1670    1542
SURpIUSODEFICIT                                --     -       -     -       -       20       --       --       --         2      125       371      342      ±58      i si      210          21                        u~-      - 14
Opening lcsh Balasne                             8      8      0     8      8      -1        20        20       20       l0       22      117       5id      860    icId       1156         --:       21        ax       RI       21
CUESJLATIVC SURPtUS/DEFICIT                      8      8      8      8     8       20        20       20       28       22      147       so8      860    iou8    pi5          1394         21       21        11       21      135
If Epresed i  costan   COEnOe, 199) pice  andconsstet sith, project cost estimates
balance sheet, projections (Table ) and in.cm statosni. (Table 3.
2/ Expressed in ncecprices; i.e  .ncluding price castiges.i..   an,   d ..o.siotest with prajeat cost rati-tate
3/ Constant pr,ice penjetions iron Table ; current Price projections were adjusted fo,, isilation (1978 - 1002)
based en Indes af In,ternational Inilati-n. 1950 - 85; Table 23 - Price Prospects for Major Primary
ceno= ditien - Warld Beok Repert 814/77.
4/ Parent conpan,y lace at 108. interest aed 10 yeats repaSflssnt.
5/ Assutinl tbst Gavr- .et woo ld nn-lend the IDA loa  to  Rcon' at 10%. interest, 20 years repayn'et with 5 yeats
6/ Ineld-s nebile., inpl-uetn, prc.essing stanbicery, buildings, houses, irrigation aonstr'ntinc, access
-rck,  ndnse               r - O
7/ Related La Rulita Limited incoe- tan, which is a 1002. owned subsidiary of Roams.
Jone 2, 1978



- 48 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 6
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
Government Cash Flow _/
(K '000)
Subtotal
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5         (Years 1-5)
(K'OnO) (US$'000)
CASH INFLOW
IDA Credit Disbursement 2/          1,280      860   1,320       920     620    5,000    6,000
Debt Service Payment by Rucom 3/    75         187      279      351     371    1,263    1,515
Taxes and Duties 4/                    39       68      107      164      230      608       730
Total Cash Inflow             1,394   1,115   1,706   1,435   1,221    6,871    8,245
CASH OUTFLOW
Capital Grant to Rucom 3/            -         230      655     465    -         1,350    1,620
Loan to Rucom 2/                    1,515      770   1,030       400    -        3,715    4,458
Smallholder Development
Expenditures 2/                     129       94      118     218      248       807       964
Research Expenditures 2/               80      141       81       88       95      485       582
IDA Debt Service 5/                    10       16       26       33      38       123       148
Total Cash Outflow            1,734   1,251   1,910   1,204         381    6,480    7,772
Cash Surplus/(Deficit)               -340    -136    -204        231     840        391      473
Cumulative Surplus/(Deficit)         -340    -476    -680    -449        391      -         -
1/ Expressed in current prices.
2/ See Schedule of Estimate Disbursement bf IDA Funds (para. 4.33).
3/ Based on Table 3, in current prices.
4/ Based on the tax element of project cost.
5/ Based on commitment charge of 0.75% per annum.
June 2, 1978



-49                                 ANNEX 1
Table 7
ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Inflows and Outflows 1/
Subtotal
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5         (Years 1-5)
(K'000)  (US$'000)
INFLOWS
IDA Credit 2/                      1,280      860   1,320      920      620    5,000    6,000
Maize Exportation 3/                   51      92      127     144      144       558      670
Total Inflows                 1,331      952   1,447   1,064      764    5,558    6,670
OUTFLOWS
Foreign Exchange Content of
Total Project Investment
Costs 4/                           810      530     830      620      421    3,211    3,853
IDA Debt Service 5/                   10       16       26      33       38       123      148
Total Outflows                  820      546     856      653      459    3,334    4,001
Net Inflow (Outflow)            511      406     591      411      305    2,224    2,669
Foreign Exchange Value of Coffee
Potential Import Substitution 6/ -          _         93     280      672    1,045    1,254
Balance Surplus/Deficit              511      406      684     691      977    3,269    3,923
Cumulative Surplus/Deficit           511      917   1,601   2,292   3,269
1/ Expressed in current prices.
2/ See Table 6.
3/ Based on maize export price/ton of K74.6 for year 1,
K83.9 for year 2, K84.3 for year 3, K86.2 for years
4 and 5.
4/ Based on the foreign exchange element of total project.
5/ Based on commitment charge of 0.75% per annum.
6/ Based on the foreign exchange element of import sub-
stitution price adjusted for inflation.
June 2, 1978



ZAMBIA
COFFEE BBOBUCT100 1803ECT
maailsholdee Farm Badget
Materiel      Unit       Quantity Years                 Unit Prire or        Cost per hs years       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      dear 1,    Year 5      Year 6        Year 7    Yeer R      Ysosl        Arerage
1     2      3 onrds            st                  1      2        3                                                                                                    (     rs)    ( Y0a8)
Coffee plantiog  schedole (hU)                                                                                                                 0.053       C.053      0.053       Y.053       0.053       -          -           -            0.265
Par--ehe. coffee prsdnction (kg):
(i)  N-irrigated -offee                                                                                                                       -          -         21.2        58.3      I06.Y       143.1       164.3        159.0       652.o           81.5
(ii) JrrigEend coffee                                                                                                                                              31.8       90.1       169.6       233.2       265.2        259.9    1,050.0           131.0
labor requira-ent (-andayn)                                                                                                                 512         163        206         206         2U6         2kg        206          206       1,911.0          239.0
A. GROSS PVENIIUE
(i)  N4hn-irrigated offe                         kg                                              1.56                                                             33          91        165         223         256          248      1,016.0           127
(ii) Irrigated coffes                            kg                                              1.56                                        -          _         50        141         265         364         414          405      1,639.0          205
B. BXPEkNDITUYRE -/
- See4inags                                     trees/he  1,890    -         -                 free
- FuDgicides                      Copper 50%      kg/hi       02    24      42                   1.70           20.4   40.8   7].4
- Ie-tibides                      Dieldrle 5Y%   kA/ha         0.1  -       -                    4iY             0.4 -4
Fnath_ 582    0/hU          1.3   2.6    4.5                  7.20            9.4   18.7   32.4
- Fertilisera                     SOlphata of
aaeoaia        kg/ha      36    76    152                    0.13            4.9    9.9   19.8
dasnaiaa
Bitrate        kg/ha      38    76    152                    D.16            6.1   12.2   24.3
Sob-T.t.1                                                                                                  71      1      7.
Lass: Gdoreramet 8aied, (50%)                                                                             {9  4StL)(73 9)
sUb-Total                                                                                                  20.6  140877  74,0
- HUmd tools                      Boe, forked
Hoe, asbhette
Pruaiag
seosteesra
Uaw                                                            _             20.0    5,0    5.0
Bub-T-tal                                                                                                  0Q            79W0
Coat ealsulatioa
1 Year old                                                                                                                           2.0         2.0         2.0        2.0         2.0         -
2 Yeara old                                                                                                                           -          3.0         3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0
3 Years old eards                                                                                                                     _          -           4.0        8.0        13.0        17.0        21.0         21.0
Sub-Total                                                                                                                            2.0         5.0         9.0       13.0        18.0        20.0        21.0         21.0
- Keapsack sprayera                             1 6hared by
505 enbeidized                               tea fate-s                                      37.5                                        4.-                          -                -           -           -            -
SYb-Total                                                                                                                            6.a         5.0         9.0        13.0       i8.0        20.0        21.0         21.0
Phyaioal ontdngencies 10%                                                                                                            1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0        2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0
.atal, txcluding labor                                                                                                                7.0        6.o        10.0        14.o       20.0        22.0        23.0         23.0       125.0           i6.o
- Fsr- feily leotb:
WMgma at fall aErket ratas                                                                                                           45.o       59.0        78.0        96.o      114.o        87.0        91 9191 0               661.0           82.0
Maedays                                                                                                                             (27)        (36)       (47)        (58)        (69)        (53)       (55)         (55j        (400)          (50)
Total, iraluding labor                                                                                                               52.0       65.o        88.0       110.0      134.0       1090          4.         114.0   ..786. o            9BO2
C. 47T  FEN4    E
)i) Ens-ireigated rgffee
- Uadlasoaated -
Easludiag labtr                                                                                                                     -7.0       -6.o        23.0        77.0      145.0       201.0       233.0        225.0       891.0          111.0
Yaoluding lbo5/                                                                                                                    -52.0      -65.0       -55.0       -19.0        51.0      136.0       165.0        157.0
P-reset vain, 2
slsindlag labor                                                                                                                     -6.o       -5.0        17.0        53.0        90.0      113.0       120.0        105.0       487.0           61.o
ITaladiag labor                                                                                                                    -47.0      -540.       -41.0       -13.0        32.0       77.0        85.0         73.0       112.0           14.o
(00) Irrigated ucofe)g
-GndiscouDsted_-
Eoludiag labor                                                                                                                      -7.0       -6.0        40.80      127.0       245.0       342.0      391.0        382.0    1,514.0           189.0
Includiag lto/                                                                                                                     -52.0      -65.o       -38.0        31.0       131.0      255.0       300.0        291.0
FExludiag labor                                                                                                                     -6.o       -5.0        30.0        87.0       152.0      193.0       201.0        178.0       830.0          1o4.o
Inoloding labor                                                                                                                    -47.0      -54.0       -29.0        21.0        81.o      144.0       154.0        136.0       406.o           51.0
AY81FAGE RTURN PE82MANDAY:  (i) Noa-irrigated ooffe- K 2.0
(ii) Irrigated roft-e      K 4.0
1/ Expre-eed in -oastEnt Oktb-er 1978 prices.
g/ Saw of _et reyeane Bn cotanat prires.,
3/ Spm of ye-rly aet reve- ars, discounted at 10%, to  -rroant for noeren flow oC rooeour f-ru  roffee.
August 3, 1978



COFFEE RODUCTION PRFJECT
Econoajo Arolycto
S-cotry of Project Ecoon-oc Costs .nd B-eftro  1/ 2/
Year  Year Yr Y  Year  Ye-r  Year  Year  Yer  Y              Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year           Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Yr
1     2      3      4     5      6      7     8      9      10    11    12    13      14     15           16    17    t8    19    20    21    22    23    24    25
COFFEE ESAYTE-                                                                                                                                               _L__
Eapittt avactarente
V7ehtotee & Iapleaante              254    79    66    41        3   162    31    96    50    45   206    39    22    89    43                 207    64    18       8    87   215    91    54    10          2
Irrlgatlos                           82    97   174    82    13                  -         -         -               -         -      - -
Ostntrlontraece 5oocreeA   T-1clc    40    10    10       7      _    -      _      ---                                                        _      _      _
ProIeeaitg K-chi.ery                  94    34   123    39    40              34   123    39    40                                     -                                            34   123    39    40
Boildinge                           202    36   320       7    14                          - _  _32                                                                  -      -      -                      15
Hooustg                              380   136   112   104                                                              324   111    8                      79
Subttoal                        1052   392                                                                             127 70  31 71  5 0 4 5 2  7 3 21    128  83    5 63   1  104    87   87    513   115   177   31    37
Coffee Prodoeti.o
lfarbeataed Oparoriora               12    22    29    34    33    37    42    42    40    40    42    42    42    40    40                     42    42    42    40    40    42    42    42    40    40
Crop Inpote - MEteraild              14    32    52    82   101   117   124   123   122   122   123   124   123   122   122                   123   124   123   122   122   .23   124   123   122   122
- Frrtfil-r r   beidy   1       2      4     7      8      9    18    10    10    10    18    10    1          10    10           10    10    10    10    18    18    18    10    10    10
Labo-r Wogre  3/                     15    34    53    86   129   183   229   231   200   194   222   229   231   200   194                   222   229   231   200   194   222   229   231   200   194
Irr-gatior Costa                      5      9    21    26    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27                    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27
AcoesY Tr-   lMit-ceo                3     5      6      7     9      9     9      9      9      9     9      9      9     9      9            9      9     9      9      9      9      9     9      9      9
Land ivelopaeat                      33    29       6     2                                                          -      -         -      -     -      -
P:lpertyo Cr                          1      7      7    11    14    15    16    16    15    15    16    16    16    15    15                   16    16    16    15    15    16    16    16           3    135
trilliag 006t6                        -     -      16    17    19    21    23    23    23    23    23    23    23    23    23                   23    23    23    23    23    23    23    23    23    23
Rositing otet                        -       1    15    17    21    21    26    27    27    26    26    26    27    27    26                    26    26    27    27    26    26    26    27    27    26
nbthorL                           86   141   209   289   363   439   586   308   473   466   498   506   588   424   466                   498 7j    500   473   466   498   006   588   473   466
lot-e Prod-rtioe
M"echateed Operat-ooc                 52    55    40    41    37    37    37    37    37    37    37    37    37    37    37                    37    37    37    37    37    37    37    37    37    37
Crop Orpore - M            telale    24    38    51    57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57                     57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57    57
_F-ittlter Sobeidy   4          6      8     8      8      8     8      8     8             8      8     8      80                  8 0                 8      8      8     8      8      8      8
Labour Figee  3/3                            5         7      7      7     7          77        7           7          77    7                          77 7- -   7      7                       7 7  7
Sobto.a1                          83   104   I86   113   18    109   189   109   109 09 0     109   18 29:  109   I9N                      109   16   109   309   109   189   189   1079  610i   189
MlAagrnat 4 Adiintetratite             132   134   143   131   143   143   14    14 3   14          113  343 3 1   143   143   143               143   143   143   143   143   i4l   143   143   143   143
Tottl Cote                  1353   771  7263   833   6B5   853   789   856   775   763   956   832   905   853   042                  1313   933   864   812   805   965   873   937   774   775
Coffee  4/                              -     _    103   313   752  1350  2818  2035  1673  1607  1937  2191  2210  1817  1744                   2103  2191  2210  1817  1744  2103  2191  2218  1817  1744
maCce51                                 61   208   250   170   170   170   179   179   179   179   179   181   181   18-1  18t                    182    181     -    181   181   181 1   1   181 161 18    182
Total                             62   189   233   483   922  1520  2197  2214  1852  1786  2116  2372  2391  1998  1925                   2284  2372  2391  1998  1925  2284  2372  2391  1998  1925
Wept 8coofOtS                        -1279  -662 -1010  -350   237   667  1408  1358  1077  10o3  1160  1541  1486  1145  1124                    971  1439  1527  1186  1120  1319  1499  1454  1224  1150
R-oaoset  Rate of Rcent
With eh dee-priaa of foreIgn enoheage  2/
S-1ai  (Irpart Shbetitetia)  4/                    2 71 %
Benefits  lane 102                                 18 %
tcot Pies 10%                                      18 %
EaPart  5/  I/                                       8%
Cot Flne lOZ; B .. fit. hinns lOX                 15 
Withtut chcdar-pric.i.g oP f-reitn  -rohana
Impart 8Obatitrtitn                                19 ,
Eupert                                              6 8
1/ B-ed or the cast date peeceated L. Table    exclodi}g tnee,  ehadowlag  the foreign  -Rhegae of n-a   -aepasart sad labor wages
priced ot 302 of market  arte.   It doen rot ioclnde project id-etificatioo  ord ellhaldor develop-eat red r-o-ach  -opn-nt, It to
aasar. d thot there iE  ro prod-ctito  fopefoge   bhcas-e the pr-Jert nro. iC  netoally od-r c.ffa  or virgir load.
2/ The second nhador fore-ig  exahogre rote is K 1.00 = Us$1.07.
3/ fri-ed at 50% of mrket rte.
4/ R-ed or ilpor-t prity price fer toe of toffee of K 2799 for 1981, K 2612 for 1982, C 2895 for 1985 ood K 3143 for 1990
-arde.  pre-oKted oe Table    .
5/ 3aeed 00 erpore parIty price for tor/-ijee of K 74.6 tor 1Y/t , C 03.9 for 1984, c S4., 'or 19S1, e r62 for 190,0   F 4n-9 for
1985 ood K 91.5 far 1990.
B/ Raced or expore Pority prior for too of coffee of C 1676 for 1981, K 1543 for 1982, C 1745 for 1985 and K 1921 far 1990
rr-arde, pecc.rtad or Thblr
J-oe 1978



ZAMBIA COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
RUCOM INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
Structure, Organization and Proposed Coffee Division
ZIMICO
Zarbia Industrial and
Mining CorpOra-ior Ltd.
\NDECO
Indurtrial Development
Corporation
,RUCOM Giviion
RUCOM Industries Lt.
Board of Directors
| General Manager 
ML.A.
M.L.A.             Smallholger Development|
Coffee Research            Pilot S_b-Project
SERVCES       >DEPUTY GENERAL                                                                                     I
DEPARTMENTS                                            MANAGER                      Coffee Project
DEARTMENTS                                                                                           ,
Fi ..  (1 A uOperatonal                                 Projet/Plantation
Financial Account               Divisions   JMngr                             ___                                                                                 I.
_       ACCO UNTINO                                                    _t
q   Cost Account   |                                                                           | AsIAnt Planta
CANDLE PLANTS|                                                                 p =  .r         --=
RcfinryTran      -|   hAKERIES
rAUTO REPAIR
_  Sec_rity                  SERVICES{
= q     R ENTA LS |                                                                                                                3
PURCHASING               Purchat Offi-er'
EGGTRAY
7       WAREHOUSE  |                                                           I                                          {
Mechanic       l      q    CNEY          l:] Eetiin
MANTNAC                          Electric                   TANNERY                                    EnsO{ rin
-| Coil Works          _METAL & PURNITURE                                                            Strn AeitnaSoeler
F MIARKETING
7__!RE_EARCH
'Could be proided under Coffee Proect.                                                                                                                        World B-1k  19229



ZAMBIA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
tmplementation Schedule
Pre-Pnoject                           Year 1                               Year 2                               Year 3                                Year 4                               Year 5
1977 -1978                           1978-1979                           1979 -1980                           1980 -1981                            1981 -1982                           1982 -1983
Construction               Site
Constructirn     Site          4        1         2        3        4         1        2        3        4         1        2        3        4        1        2         3         4   |    1   | 2   | 2               4    | 1   | 2    | 3
Maie Caal1                   K                                                               .......                              ......                     .          ........                            .......
Sto-ge
Rehrse-ir                   K                                                                                                                                         .......
AccessT-ks                    K                                                               ....... .K                           ........                   .          ........                             .......                    .         .......
implement Shed KFarrni
Office Building               K                                            ....
Coffee Mill                  Ks............u
Coffee Warehouse             Ks
Staff Housesy                                            . ...K ...... ....... .....                            ........ .....                       ....... .......                        .....  .......
Chalet
Vehicles. Eqaip-
ment and Farmieg
Machinery                                                .__          ....... ...............                   .......                               .......                              .._
Pulpery Mach,nery                                                                                                        .-..-....                                                                   .                          .....
Milling Machinery                                                                                                                                     ...
Bush Clearing
Land Preparation (ha)       54                                       100                                 400                         188
Coffee Development (ha)    14                                                                    54                                  154                                  254                                             354               400
Design and preparation of documents, planning.                                                                                                                                                      World Bank -19230
Tendering and review of bids, preparation for implementation.
.    .        ,     Construction or shipping period.
- . -  .    .        Installat,on



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page I
ZAMB3IA
COFFEE PRODUCTION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports on Northern Province and Coffee Sub-sector
A.1       Land Resources of the Northern and Luapula Provinces, Zambia -
a reconnaissance assessment; (6 volumes), Land Resources
Division, Ministry of Overseas Development, Tolworth Tower,
Surbiton Survey KT67DY, England - 1955.
A.2       Summary of agronomic research findings in Northern Province,
Zambia - Ibid - 1973.
A.3       A Policy for Coffee - by F.L. Cockroft.  Economic Planning
Unit, Ministry of Agriculture, Lusaka - 1967.
A.4       Coffee Handbook - by J.B.M. Vogt, Deputy Director of Agriculture
(Research), Ministry of Agriculture, Lusaka.
A.5       Annual Report - Misamfu Regional Research Station, Northern
Province - Kasama, 1975-76.
A.6       Final Report and Handing over Notes - Misamfu Regional Research
Station, Oct. 1977.
A.7        Detailed Soil Survey of the Misamfu Regional Research Station
in Northern Province - Soil Survey Report No. 41, Republic
of Zambia.
A.8       Annual Report 1977 and W4ork Program 1978 - IDZ Program,
January 1978.
A.9       RUCOM Industries Annual Reports for 1975-1977.
A.10      INDECO Ltd. Annual Report for 1974-1977.
A.11      Memorandum of Association of RUCOM Industries.
B.   Selected Reports on the Project
B.1 Zambia Coffee - Project Preparation Report, two volumes,
Government of Zambia, 1978.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
C.   Selected Working Papers
C.1 Coffee Production and Processing Technology
by H. W. Mitchell, Consultant
C.2 Project Costs
Table  1  - Land-clearing and incremental preparation
Table  2  - Vehicles, implements and Equipment
Table  3  - Incremental Agricultural Vehicles Operational Costs
Table  4  - Incremental Crop Input's Material
Table  5  - Incremental Labor Wages
Table  6  - Irrigation Costs
Table  7  - Estate Entrance and Access Tracks
Table  8  - Processing Machinery
Table  9  - Buildings and Structures
Table 10  - Management and Administration
Table 11  - Housing
Table 12  - Staff Training
Table 13  - Smallholder Component
Table 14  - Research Component
C.3 Agricultural Planning
Table 15  - Planting Schedule:  Land-clearing and preparation schedu:le
Table 16  - Agricultural Vehicles Requirements:  Tractors Workload
Table 17  - Agricultural Vehicles Requirements
Table 17b - Agricultural Vehicles Requirements (cont.)
Table 18  - Harvesting and Production Schedule
Table 18b - Harvesting and Production Schedule (cont.)
C.4  Financial Analysis
Table 19 - RUCOM Industries: Financial Rate of Return
Table 20 - Project Production Unit Cost and Net Margin per Ton
C.5 Pricing
Table 21 - Price Structure of Imported Coffee
Table 22 - Price Structure of Exported Coffee
Table 23 - Price Structure for Exporting Maize






REPUBLIC          OF       ZAIRE
'I,  y~~~~~~~~I
(~~~~~ -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<'~~/   > j             Ox/
0                         H~~~~~~M
o                           II                  I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
I,-,R,a
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l






1BRD 13624
T A N Z A N I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Z A       3       A A  I
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lk
MP                                                                e~~~~~~~~ 
LU ~ ~ ~ ~~~EG
U-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
AA P                            .t. R                      t ryCOFFEE PROJECT
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -  ,F fIo pIA>Ore o,As
Al   A>r                                                    l oojndories
LL-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
t<''@+l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol! SonoI!?4, n.  n,ne'   I02,
\   <   y/                 /S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  45  6D 0    io55
KCLOMETE RS
2f/13Z3es , AnCo  n,,,nC Sny h,/ ,,nrt n//n'nDdannn,,                                                                                              C             t  20  M 4I0E  603
L  nc,,i,n,ny,,,ngnD t   n   ,oun,eR Oa.,                                       To, ,us,Ze n,n                         32, ,Po                                  I   eS



