CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 863 ZA
Project Agreement
(Coffee Production Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RUCOM INDUSTRIES LTD.
Dated January 26, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 863 ZA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
RUCOM INDUSTRIES LTD. (hereinafter called RUCOM).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Zambia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million dollars ($6,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that RUCOM agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and RUCOM, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to RUCOM on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS RUCOM, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by RUCOM or by any one or more
subsidiaries of RUCOM or by RUCOM and one or more of its sub-
sidiaries.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. RUCOM shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, economic, agricultural and
engineering practices.
Section 2.02. RUCOM shall:
(a) employ, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to secure the services of, a Plantation Manager and
an Engineering Manager whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association to assist in carrying out Part A of the Project;
(b) employ agricultural consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association to assist in monitoring and evaluating
the execution of Part A of the Project; and
(c) by June 30, 1979, employ qualified counterparts to the
Plantation Manager and the Engineering Manager referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) RUCOM undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by RUCOM to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, RUCOM
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for Part A of the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) RUCOM shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procurement
schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) RUCOM: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose their use in said Part of the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon its obligations pursuant to paragraph (d)
of this Section, enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
said Part of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
said Part of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, quarterly progress
reports on the execution of said Part of the Project.
(c) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between RUCOM
and the Association, RUCOM shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of said Part of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by RUCOM and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit in
respect of said Part of the Project.
(d) RUCOM shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of RUCOM and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. RUCOM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association


﻿shall otherwise agree, RUCOM shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amend..,g, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) RUCOM shall, at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) RUCOM shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RUCOM of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. RUCOM shall install and maintain a water
recirculation system for the coffee pulpery at Kateshi in order to
minimize the volume of effluents and shall take all action neces-
sary to ensure that no effluents from said pulpery are returned to
the Lukupa river.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of RUCOM
Section 3.01. (a) RUCOM shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan the future development of
its business and maintain its financial position in accordance
with appropriate agricultural, commercial, economic, financial
and administrative practices, and under an experienced and
qualified management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, RUCOM shall operate and maintain the coffee
plantings, equipment and facilities at the Kateshi and Ngoli
Estates, as well as its coffee processing facilities, and make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof in accordance with appro-
priate agricultural and management practices.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.02. RUCOM shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. RUCOM shall at all times take all steps neces-
sary to maintain its corporate existence and the right to carry on
its operations, including Part A of the Project, and shall take
all steps necessary to acquire and to retain such land, interests
in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such
licenses, consents, franchises or other rights as may be neces-
sary or useful for the execution and operation of the facilities
constructed or established under said Part of the Project and the
conduct of its business.
Se:-ion 3.04. (a) Before RUCOM shall take any action to
establish or acquire any subsidiary, RUCOM shall satisfy the
Association that such action would not affect materially and
adversely the operations and financial position of RUCOM.
(b) RUCOM shall cause any subsidiary to observe and perform
the obligations of RUCOM under this Agreement to the extent to
which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as
though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
RUCOM shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property and assets relating to its coffee production and
processing operations except in the ordinary course of business.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) RUCOM shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures for Part A of the Project and the
operations of RUCOM relating to the production, processing and
marketing of coffee. Such separate accounts shall be of such scope
and detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested and
shall include separate yearly balance sheets and statements of
income and expenditures regarding RUCOM's coffee operations.


﻿- 6 -
(b) RUCOM shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, re-aipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for Part A of the Project
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
Section 4.02. RUCOM shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such fiscal year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made available
to RUCOM and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of RUCOM and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. In order to strengthen its financial condition
and performtnce, RUCOM shall:
(a) by May 31, 1979, prepare a plan satisfatory to
the Association for the restructuring of its current operations
and the improvement of the financial results thereof, including an
indicative timetable for the carrying out of such plan; and
(b) thereafter carry out such plan in accordance with such
timetable.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, RUCOM shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt
of RUCOM and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would be greater than three times the consolidated capital and
surplus of RUCOM and all its subsidiaries.


﻿- 7 -
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any debt maturing more than
one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
RUCOM or any subsidiary.
(ii) Whenever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt.
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement on the date and to the
extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Kwacha debt
payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by RUCOM for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or if such rate
is not available at a rate acceptable to the
Association.
(iv) The term "consolidated debt of RUCOM and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of
RUCOM and its subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed
by RUCOM to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to
RUCOM or to any other subsidiary.
(v) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of RUCOM
and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of
the unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free
reserves of RUCOM and its subsidiaries, after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent
equity interests of RUCOM in any subsidiary, or of
any such subsidiary in RUCOM or in any other
subsidiary.
Section 4.05. (a) Until completion of the Project and except
as the Association may otherwise agree, RUCOM shall take all


﻿-8-
action necessary to maintain the level of its current assets at
all times at or above the level of its current liabilities.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "current assets" means the sum of
unrestricted cash available for use in current
operations, marketable securities (excluding
securities, whether marketable or not, acquired
for purposes of control, affiliation, or other
continuing business advantage), receivables
collectible in the normal course of business within
one year, and inventories valued at cost or current
market prices, whichever is lower.
(ii) The term "current liabilities" means all obliga-
tions of RUCOM due on demand or within one year or
whose liquidation is reasonably expected to require
the use of existing resources classified as current
assets. Obligations shall include but not be
limited to accrued taxes on, or measured by, income
and current maturities of long-term debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of RUCOM thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
RUCOM of this event.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For RUCOM:
Longolongo Road
P.O. Box 800
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                      Telex:
RUCOMIN                             ZA 41821
Lusaka, Zambia                      FOR RUCOM


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of RUCOM may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of RUCOM or such other person or persons as
RUCOM's Board of Directors shall authorize, and the General
Manager shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
RUCOM INDUSTRIES LTD.
By Is! Putteho M. Ngonda
Authorized Representative


