Report No. 23644
Report No: i068968 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/08/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BOLIVIA         Project ID: P068968
Project: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project      Task Team Leader:
Aurelio Menendez
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 31, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 14, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 77.00
Managing Unit: LCSFT     Sector: TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall objective of the project is to preserve economic development
along key road links of the national network and facilitate the social and
economic integration of the regions and communities in the area of
influence of those links, by arresting the premature deterioration and the
increasing maintenance costs of those links. The project also aims at
consolidating the institutional efforts launched under the Second Road
Maintenance Project (Credit 2395-BO) and continued under the Abapo-Camiri
Highway Project (Credit 3235-BO) to: (a) revamp the institutional
organization for the sector by addressing shortcomings in the governmental
capacity to manage the national road network; (b) support the
implementation of a sustainable mechanism for the financing of road
maintenance; (c) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Prefecturas
(deconcentrated departmental units of the central government) to manage
the secondary (regional) road networks under their jurisdiction; (d)
initiate the development of a road safety initiative, to reduce the
comparatively-high accident rate existing on Bolivian highways (and
particularly affecting travelers with lower income levels); and (e)
consolidate the experience to date regarding the participation of the
private sector in road maintenance by implementing corrective measures to
the contracting of maintenance and expanding the range of alternatives for
that participation (e.g., microenterprises for routine maintenance).
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1: Rehabilitation of priority segments of the national road
network. This component includes the rehabilitation of 353.1 km of
national roads between (a) Calamarca and San Pedro (165.1 km), on the main
road from La Paz to Oruro (and from this town to Cochabamba and Santa
Cruz), and (b) Boyuibe and Yacuiba (188.0 km), providing continuity to the
road Abap6-Camiri (whose reconstruction is being undertaken with support
from Credit 3235-BO). These roads constitute critical existing segments
of the national network that, because they are substantially deteriorated,
require immediate rehabilitation or reconstruction.     The SNC has
undertaken an in-depth analysis of rehabilitation alternatives (using the
Bank-sponsored Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model or HDM) and
selected the ones that would report the largest economic benefits. The



priority of these segments has been confirmed against the results of the
Transport Master Plan, a country-wide modeling tool that under the
Vice-Minister of Transport has allowed to established the transport
priorities for the country in the medium term. All the works will take
place within existing rights-of-way and will not involve the displacement
of population.
Component 2: Pilot of rehabilitation of secondary (departmental) roads.
In order to increase the benefits from the rehabilitation of the degments
of the national network, facilitate transport from low income communities,
and encourage adequate road management practices at the Prefecturas, this
component seeks to rehabilitate around 200 km of secondary roads. The
selection of the these roads would be based on eligibility criteria which
would include: (a) a maximum rehabilitation cost per km (of US$25,000),
(b) specific institutional requirements to be completed by the relevant
Prefectura (in terms, among others, of road investment planning and
maintenance financing and programming); and (c) other socio-economic
criteria.   Component 5 would further provide support to the
implementation of the institutional development actions with the
Prefecturas committed to their application.    This pilot would focus on
the Departments of La Paz, Oruro, Chuquisaca y Tarija, that are the four
departments the segments under component 1 transverse. The Prefecturas of
these departments would compete for the available funds through the
incentives to be established by the compliance with the eligibility
criteria. These criteria include compliance with social and environmental
safeguards. As in component 1, all the (limited) works under this
component will take place within existing rights-of-way and will not
entail any resettlement of population.
Component 3: Support to the Establishment of a Road Maintenance Account.
This component would contribute credit resources to the funding of a Road
Maintenance National Account (or CNCV for its name in Spanish: Cuenta
Nacional de Conservacion Vial), on a yearly declining basis. The CNCV
would be the source of financing for the 2002-2006 routine maintenance and
resurfacing program for the national network. The Government has
demonstrated its commitment to finance adequately the maintenance of road
assets by approving the establishment of the CNCV to be funded with
resources from various users' charges and specifying the details of the
generation and use of those resources. In order to phase in the incidence
of these charges on road users and on the economy as a whole, their amount
will be increased incrementally over the life of the project, while the
credit provides the difference, on a declining basis, to cover the annual
maintenance needs of the network. The credit resources will finance those
contracts with preponderance of periodic maintenance activities
(resurfacing). The schedule of contributions to the CNCV and the use of
its resources will be agreed upon at negotiations based on appraisal
mission findings and agreements. Strict compliance with existing
environmental regulations will be applied to all the maintenance
activities undertaken with resources from the CNCV. Regulations for the
operation of the CNCV, including specific provisions for the processing of
disbursements and the audit of technical and procurement requirements,
will be agreed upon at negotiations.
Component 4: Technical Assistance. This component consists of four
sub-components: (a) development of a road safety initiative (complementing
-2 -



other activities being implemented with support from other donors and from
IDA) to strengthen the country's capacity to attend and reduce road
accidents; (b) pre-investment studies, to support the preparation of
technical, social and environmental studies for new road projects within
the context of the results of the Transport Master Plan and the economic
development strategy of the Government of Bolivia (under terms of
reference agreed upon with the Bank, with due consideration to social and
environmental safeguards), to fill the current gap produced by the lack of
completed new designs for enhancing Bolivia's road infrastructure; (c)
supervision of rehabilitation works of the two first components, estimated
at 8t of the rehabilitation costs; (d) technical, financial and
performance audits geared to confirm that the implementation of the
project components is carried through according to agreed conditions,
including the proper use of the resources from the CNCV and the carrying
out of annual independent opinion of trunk road-network conditions; and
(e) impact evaluations, to assess the short-term impacts of the completed
works and maintenance activities in the livelihoods of the populations
along the areas of influence of the affected road segments.
Component 5: Institutional development. This component includes support
to the following key areas: (a) the consolidation of the institutional
reform of the sector entities, mainly the SNC and the SDCs (of the
Prefecturas), with an emphasis on procurement and contracting practices
and on maintenance and investment programming systems, with an aim at
achieving a more effective, financially-sustainable, and efficient
management of road assets in Bolivia; (b) the development of alternative
mechanisms for carrying out road maintenance activities, from
microenterprises or performance-based contracts, towards enhacing the
efficiency of the use of the resources of the CNCV; (c) the development
of information management systems to strengthen financial accountability
and contract management at the SNC; and (d) training based on a plan to be
agreed upon by project effectiveness. This component would also include
support to the Vice-Ministry of Transport as it relates to the
responsibilities of this Vice-Ministry in the road transport sector.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The location of the key physical investments (component 1) will take place
along road segments that fall within the Departments of La Paz, Oruro,
Chuquisaca, Santa Cruz, and Tarija. The segments are existing and, having
been paved more than 15 years ago and sustaining substantial traffic, they
cross areas that have been set up and consolidated from the point of view
of the the surrounding environment and demographics. The works involved
exclusively repaving of existing roads and will not entail disruption to
the natural habitats or the social fabric of the communities along the
respective corridors.
The location of the physical investments under component 2 will fall
within the same departments listed before and along the same corridors.
The investments are low cost and will not involve raising the standards of
the existing secondary roads, just improving their passability and
-3 -



roughness. No disruption will take place on the surrounding natural
habitat or the communities living alongside those roads.
Along the road segment from Boyuibe toYacuiba, several communities of the
Indigenous People of the Guarani and Weenhayek reside. Through social
assessment and consultantions, these communities have expressed their
agreement with the rehabilitation works, as the roads are key in the
commercialization of the agricultural, articrafts, and fishing products
their economies relied on, and in their access to health services that are
located in the main towns along the road to be rehabilitated.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Since the works entail activities within the existing
right-of-way and will not produce major changes to traffic patterns and
volumes, the expected impacts are minor and all of them controllable.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The type of activities being considered under the project pursue the
facilitation of travel across the regions of Bolivia, with a goal at
reducing the cost of travel for the population of the country and their
associated economic activities. Being Bolivia a country with a strong
prevalence of poverty--particularly in rural areas--the project is
expected to benefit the poor. The executing institution for the project
has a long standing history of environmental management. This history has
been recently revamped in the recent reorganization of the agency with
the establishment of a Socio-Environmental Management Unit at the same
level as the Maintenance or Construction Units. In addition,
environmental manuals developed with the support of the World Bank
environmental staff are required in all the road works. By the nature of
the works to be undertaken under the project, there are no potential
significant and/or irreversible impacts. The only possible risks may come
from the lack of adequate enforcement of the regulations and manuals that
- 4 -



are already in place. This will be minimize through adequate Bank
supervision and emphasizing the application of those manuals in the
contracts with the firms in charge of supervising the works.
In the social evaluation and consultantions with the indigenous people
along the Boyuibe-Yacuiba road, it was found that the road plays a
critical role in the commercialization of the products generated by the
indigenous communities and in their access to health services. The
possible negative impacts on these communities may come from the
interferences that may be caused during the construction period. These
possible impacts will be mitigated through the environmental
specifications established in the construction and supervision contracts.
Furthermore, a Social Action Plan will be implemented for each segment and
enforced through a Coordinating Committee composed of SNC's technical and
social staff, one representative from the contractor, and representatives
from the local communities. Components of the social management plan
include: information, employment generation, environmental training and
social sensitivity raising exercises for work crews, payment mechanisms
for possible damages related to construction activities, signalization and
accident control in critical areas.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not applicable.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
The project will bring about social benefits to areas of influence of the
roads to be rehabilitated and that may be not well integrated to the
mainstream economic activities of the country. During the project
preparation specialized consultants were hired to carry out a Social
Assessment of communities located in the area of influence of the road
segments to hear their voices and their main concerns about the
rehabilitation of those segments, following the methodology denominated
"sustainable livelihoods framework" (which centers around the analysis of
five types of assets: human, natural, financial, social and physical). In
the segments to be rehabilitated there exists the consensus about the need
to advance with the rehabilitation of the roads and ample acceptance of
the related works. They only expected coordination and communication with
the contractors in order to avoid problems and solve those that may come
up during the construction period. The project will not entail any
displacement of population.
In the segment Boyuibe-Yacuiba, two indigenous communities--the Guarani
and the Weenhayek--live nearby. A Social Assessment focused on indigenous
people was carried out along this segment, with meetings held with 11
indigenous communities, some in areas far from the road. Then, a detailed
- 5-



study of the communities in the area of influence was undertaken, carrying
out further consultations with these communities about the rehabilitation
works. During these consultations, the communities expressed they
complete agreement with the rehabilitation works and requested the
solution of some technical problems of the current road.
As a result of the Social Assessment and the Indigenous Study, it was
designed two plans for the construction period: (i) Social Action Plan,
and (ii) Indigenous Development Plan.
Social Action Plan. The main outomes of this plan are: (i) to establish
and maintain good relationships between SNC, contractor, local authorities
and communities, (iii) to prevent and control potential adverse impacts,
and (iii) to enhance the positive impacts. This Plan includes the
following projects: (i) information to local authorities, (ii)
information to local communities, (iii) employment generation during
construction phase, (iv) environmental training and social sensitivity
raising for work crews, (v) attention of potential claims, and (vi)
training for road safety. The target of this Plan will be indigenous and
non-indigenous communities.
Indigenous People Development Plan. The IPDP focuses on the
organizational strengthening of the indigenous population since the
creation of specific organizations are indispensable to enhance their
access to the available resources from different national and
international funds. Special attention will be paid to coordinate efforts
with the other related IDA-financed initiatives under implementation,
namely the Participatory Rural Investment Project (Credit 3065-BO) and the
Indigenous Peoples Development Project (Credit 3471-BO).
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
SNC has created a Socio-environmental Unit. This unit has been set at the
same level within the organizational structure of the SNC as those
corresponding to the engineering, administrative and planning units, with
its head reporting directly to the Executive President of the SNC.
According to the approved organizational structure, the unit will be
staffed with an experienced cadre of social and environmental
specialists.    The IPDP and the Social Plan have been developed and
agreed upon at appraisal and will be initiated by the SNC ahead of the
initiation of works. The Socio-environmental Unit will contract the
implementation of the Social Action Plan and the Indigenous Development
Plan and will be the responsible of its supervision.
Environmental management manuals have been developed and are an integral
part of procurement and contractual documents for the execution of
rehabilitation and maintenance works.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
During project preparation, consultations were carried out with the
communities along the road segments to be rehabilitated under the
project. In addition, for the Boyuibe-Yacuiba segment, a specific
- 6 -



assessment study and a consultation process with the indigenous
communities of Guarani and Weenhayek were undertaken. Detailes on the
consultation process are included in the three social assessment reports
carried out during project preparation. As part of the rehabilitation
activities, social specialists will be hired to implement the Social
Action Plan on each segment.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              12/3/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure          1/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/12/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              12/3/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure          1/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           2/12/2002
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Aurelio Menendez         02/07/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Maximo Liberman
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Elena Correa/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:        Victor Pozadas
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         02/07/02
-7 -



Sector Manager/Director:          Danny M. Leipziger       02/08/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 8-



