Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23625-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR62 MILLION
(US$77 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
MARCH 15, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit - LCC6C
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 12, 2002)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos
1 Boliviano = US$0.142857
US$1 = 7.00 Bolivianos
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIS                 Accident Infonnation System
ARI                 Institutional Reformn Agreement (Acuerdo de Reforma Institucional)
CAF                 Andean Development Corporation (Corporacion Andina de Fomento)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                 Comprehensive Development Framework
CNCV                Road Maintenance National Account (Cuenta Nacional de Conservaci6n Vial)
FMR                 Financial Monitoring Reports
FONPLATA            Financial Fund for the Development of the River Plata Basin (Fondo Financiero
para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata)
GOB                 Government of Bolivia
HDM                 Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IDA                 International Development Association
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
MOP                 Project Operational Manual (Manual de Operaciones del Proyecto)
NDF                 Nordic Development Fund
PCU                 Project Coordinating Unit
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SEPCAM              Prefectural Road Agency (Servicio Prefectural de Caminos)
SINCON              Accounting Control System at the SNC (Sistema de Contabilidad)
SNC                 National Roads Agency (Servicio NVacional de Caminos)
VMT                 Vice ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics
(Viceminislerio de Transporte, Comunicaciones yAeronaztica Civil)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Aurelio Menendez



BOLIVIA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    14
3. Benefits and target population                                                   15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 26
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         26
2. Financial                                                                        27
3. Technical                                                                        29
4. Institutional                                                                    29
5. Environmental                                                                    32
6. Social                                                                           33
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               35



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   35
2. Critical risks                                                                   36
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   37
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          37
2. Other                                                                            38
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       41
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      42
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       43
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       54
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                75
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          77
Annex 11: The Road Maintenance National Account Account (CNCV) and Resurfacing Program  79
Annex 12: The Pilot Program of Rehabilitation of Secondary Roads                       86
Annex 13: The Road Safety Component                                                    93
Annex 14: Social and Environmental Analysis                                            99
MAP(S)
IBRD 31797



BOLIVIA
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: March 15, 2002                             Team Leader: Aurelio Menendez
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero     Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P068968                              Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [] Grant     [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $77.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 35
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                    138.33          61.67       200.00
IDA                                                          43.90          33.10        77.00
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                       4.18           2.82         7.00
Total:                                                      186.42          97.58       284.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Responsible agency: SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
Address: Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz esquina Oniro, Edificio Centro de Comunicaciones, Piso 8, La Paz, Bolivia
Contact Person: Sr. Jose Maria Bakovic, Presidente Ejecutivo, Servicio Nacional de Caminos
Tel: 591-2-2356513           Fax: 591-2-2391724           Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/USSm):
FY  2003  2004       2005      2006       2007
Annual    14.15      23.52     23.48      14.13      1.72
Cumulative  14.1        37.67      61.15     75.28     77.00
Project implementation period: June 2002-June 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OCS P.o F-, Re MdS 2=



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve road transitability and accessibility through the
rehabilitation of key segments of the national and secondary road networks and the strengthening of the
country's capacity to manage road assets. At an overall level, the project seeks to preserve economic
development along key road links of the national network and facilitate the social and economic integration
of the regions and communities in the area of influence of those links.
The specific project development objectives are to: (a) arrest the premature deterioration and the increasing
maintenance costs of key links of the national road network and support the implementation of a
sustainable mechanism for the proper maintenance of the national road network; (b) consolidate the
revamping of the institutional framework by making the national roads agency results-oriented and
improving the efficiency and transparency of contractual practices; (c) pilot coordinating mechanisms that
can help strengthen the institutional capacity of the Prefecturas (deconcentrated departmental units of the
central govenmuent) to manage the secondary road networks under their jurisdiction; and (d) initiate the
development of a road safety initiative, to reduce the comparatively-high accident rate existing on Bolivian
highways (and particularly affecting travelers with lower income levels). These objectives are aligned with
those established in the Bolivia Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) reviewed by the Bank in May
2001.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The selected key performance indicators attempt to capture and reflect the expected development impact of
the rehabilitation investments, the maintenance activities, and the enhanced institutional framework. The
key indicators to measure the achievement of the overall development objective are: (a) percentage decrease
in freight and passenger tariffs along the links to be rehabilitated under the project, and (b) percentage
increase in the number of passengers traveling on buses along those links (compared to routes along links
not subject to similar interventions).
The indicators related to the specific project objectives include: (a) percentage of the national road network
in at least good condition and percentage of periodic and routine maintenance costs covered with sustained
resources from road users' charges (tolls, tariffs on fuel consumption, or vehicle-ownership fees); (b)
progress in the institutional reform by sustaining the implementation of the framework sanctioned by Law
2064 of April 2000, and Supreme Decree 26336 of September 2001, and by generating and sharing with
road users and stakeholders the performance results of the national roads agency and the performance
audits of the use of the maintenance resources; (c) departmental road agencies of participating Prefecturas
able to design and implement network-based maintenance plans and budgets, with indication of
maintenance activities, costs and productivities; and (d) action plan for improving the road safety designed
and decisions made on the implementation of an institutional framework as a focal point for coordinating
efforts related to road safety.
The performance indicators of the Project are consistent and complement those of the PRSP in relation to
the condition of the national road network, the promotion of private sector participation in road
maintenance, and the achievement of efficiencies in the execution of the road sector budget. Furthermore,
the institutional development indicators are interrelated to governance issues identified in the PRSP that are
being addressed at the country level. These indicators have been narrowed down to tailor them to the
specific context of the road sector.
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17890-BO Date of latest CAS discussion: June 16, 1998
The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on June 16,
1998, the Country Development Framework (CDF) presented in document 19326-BO of May 21, 1999,
and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) presented by the Government of Bolivia in March 2001.
The PRSP was reviewed by the Bank and the IMF in the Joint Staff Assessment dated May 10, 2001. On
that same date, a Progress Report of the CAS was presented to the Board who discussed it on June 20,
2001. The project is also consistent with that Assessment and CAS Progress Report.
The CAS and the CDF were prepared following a participatory approach which included frequent
workshops with the World Bank and other external donors. As such the CAS and the CDF reflect a joint
assessment of the new directions of donor-funded projects. The main objective of both the CAS and the
CDF is to support the poverty reduction effort of the Government of Bolivia, with a focus on three pillars:
opportunity, equity and institutionality. One of the three key areas of the opportunity pillar is to improve
the physical infrastructure of Bolivia, with particular emphasis on upgrading the conditions of the road
network and the capacity of the public sector to manage it, with the participation of the private sector to the
maximum possible extent. Infrastructure is then identified as a key element as the country's limited and
deteriorating infrastructure represents a critical constraint to faster growth and more equitable distribution
of economic benefits, perpetuating poverty in those areas with low accessibility to economic opportunities.
Under the institutionality pillar, the key action focuses on the reform of public sector institutions towards
instilling efficiency and transparent practices in their actions and programs. The project is also consistent
with the World Bank Group strategy to facilitate the development of the private sector (as presented in
Annex E of the CAS). The IDA-supported interventions advanced in the CAS are to be complemented by
projects to be financed by other intemational donors, chiefly the IDB and the CAF.
The project is also consistent with the strategies and priorities identified in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) presented by the Government of Bolivia in March 2001 (as well as with other initiatives
such as the World Bank-sponsored study on the competitiveness of Bolivian industry--"Bolivia
Microeconornic Constraints and Opportunities for Higher Growth", dated January 16, 2001). ' The PRSP
singles out improvements in road (and other productive) infrastructure at the national and local levels as
key to enhancing the opportunity to spur economic development (increasing incomes and employment). It
is stated that the lack of adequate roads constitutes a significant obstacle for the commercialization of
products and makes it more difficult for small producers to market their products due to the high costs of
transport and the ensuing monopsonic conditions of the commercialization chain. The priority of the
sub-sector is reflected in the proposed allocation of resources, of which about 50% of the estimated
2000-06 investments of the PRSP are assigned to the enhancement of economic opportunities, and half of
that amount to improvements in road infrastructure. In addition, the PRSP emphasizes the need to increase
the effectiveness and efficiency of institutions in the public sector, and those of the road sector in particular,
as a mechanism to reduce the risks that stem from weak govemance and the presence of corruption.
The economic advancement of Bolivia and the reduction of its poverty levels require a well-functioning
transport system. This involves the establishment of the institutional capacity to preserve road assets and
undertake investments that can help integrate the regions of the country. The Project is a cornerstone of
this overall strategy and aims at attending the goals of the PRSP and the CAS by contributing to arrest the
deterioration of the road network and to improve the management capacity of the sector institutions. The
- 3 -



project constitutes a follow-on operation to strengthen the sector institutional framework and rehabilitate
key sections of the national network started under the (completed) Second Road Maintenance Project
(partially thwarted by the implementation of a deficient decentralization initiative from 1995 to 1998) and
the (ongoing) Abapo-Camiri Highway Project (Credit BO-3235). The project complements specific sector
institutional reform actions carried out under the Institutional Reform Project (Credit BO-3245).
The PRSP reflects the broader consensual strategies agreed upon among the Govemrnment, civil society and international donors, as well as the
opinions gathered through the public consultation process-lmown as National Dialogue 2000.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
This section presents transport sector issues as they impinge on strategies that aim at: (a) preserving and
expanding the road assets required for the proper socio-economic development of the country; (b)
revamping the institutional capacity for managing road assets; (c) redressing the condition of road
networks; and (c) enhancing road maintenance practices and financing. Unfortunately, the lack of reliable
recent statistics on the road network and use--largely caused by the failed decentralization of the road
administration that took place in 1996--does not allow for a more precise in-depth analysis of the trends
during the last ten years. The data provided in this section constitute the best estimates available.
Deferred attention to the road infrastructure needs required by sustained economic development. The
Bolivian economy has been growing at around 4% during most of the 90s (with a deceleration since 1999
caused in part by the effects of external crises). The economic growth has generated additional traffic and
the number of vehicle-kilometers has shown an average annual growth rate of 8.3% between 1991 and
1999 as has the number of registered vehicles. Both of these variables show a combined rate of increase of
more than double that of the GDP (see Figure 1). About 80% of the number of vehicle-kilometers take
place on the 11,000-km national network. Both passenger and freight traffic is provided by a highly
competitive and largely unregulated transport service industry. The increase in the number of
vehicle-ldlometers has been accompanied by a substantial increase in the number of accidents (doubling
between 1994 and 1996 and oscillating at around 1,000 fatalities per year between 1996 and 1999),
making Bolivia one of the countries in Latin America with the highest fatality rates (in terms of number of
fatalities per vehicle-kIn). Accidents on the road network--often involving buses--make unfortunate
headlines in the Bolivian newspapers.
Growth of VehicIo-kms, No. of Vehicles, and GDP
1991-1999, 1991 = 100
190                             No. of Vehic.
180
170
150
140
130
10
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
These traffic trends underpin the importance of infrastructure in facilitating the social and economic
activities that require transport as an input. A 2001 World Bank-sponsored study on the competitiveness
of Bolivian industry ("Bolivia Microeconomic Constraints and Opportunities for Higher Growth")
- 4 -



highlights that "[t]he poor state of transport infrastructure in Bolivia is one of the most severe constraints
on [the development of] its [manufacturing] industry." The study documents the poor state of roads and the
impact produced in the reliability of supply chains, forcing industries to hold high inventory levels (well
above other comparable countries) and reducing productivity. It further reports that the poor state of
infrastructure raises the running cost for truck fleets and hence the final costs for shippers. And it follows
by stating that "the cost of transport in Bolivia--ranging from 2 to 20 times the cost of freight in other
neighboring countries--is clearly a major competitive obstacle for the [economic development] of the
country." The high cost of road transport is largely responsible for this situation given that 95 percent of
all firmns that ship their products do so by roads.
These statistics and facts draw attention to the constraints on social and economic activities generated by
(a) the poor operating condition of the Bolivian highways that serve the largest consumption and production
centers and (b) the deficient network coverage to adequately facilitate the social and economic integration
of the country. Years of chronic deficits in public funding, mismanagement of available resources, and
poor quality of maintenance have compounded those conditions. While Government programs have
underscored investment amounts up to US$500 million per year, the actual investments from 1990 to 2000
have hovered around US$110 million in construction and rehabilitation works and up to about US$20
million in maintenance on the national and secondary networks, with a trend of increasing participation of
external sources in the financing of the construction and rehabilitation works.' These figures reflect an
in-grained management limit to manage, preserve and expand road assets. This limit has diminished the
effectiveness of donor support in upgrading and expanding the road network. This support has been
hampered by a weak institutional base and ill-designed sector policies implemented in the mid 90s.
Striving to reform and strengthen the institutional and managementframework. From 1990 to 1994, with
support from multilateral financial institutions--mainly IDB, IDA and CAF--the Government of Bolivia
(GOB) attempted to strengthen the institutional capacity to manage and maintain the network, with the
development of maintenance management systems and the provision of technical assistance to specific
areas of the sectoral institutions--mainly, Vice-Ministry of Transport and the National Roads Agency (or
SNC for its Spanish name Servicio Nacional de Caminos). However, the Administrative Decentralization
Law, No. 1654, of August 1995 (which became effective for the SNC on January 12, 1996), affected
negatively those efforts because by transferring the entire network to newly created institutions (the
Prefecturas) for the nine regions of Bolivia, human, mechanical (e.g., equipment) and financial resources
were spread too thin, reducing the capacity of the sector institutions to manage the road network and attend
road emergencies during the rainy season. (Before the decentralization, the SNC had more than 3,000
employees, of which 2,200 were force-account workers and the rest administrative and professional staff.)
Furthermore, in the process, information was lost.
The newly created institutions--the Servicios Prefecturales de Caminos of the Prefecturas
(SEPCAMs)--disregarded largely the maintenance requirements of the national network and, taking the
narrower perspective of their internal (departmental) transport needs rather than a national view, shifted
their attention to the secondary and tertiary networks on the basis of non-economic considerations. The
Servicios Prefecturaless de Caminos, in addition, did not have (and have not had) the necessary technical
skills to address the proper upkeep of all the road assets under theirjurisdiction. The SNC remained
exclusively as the entity in charge of the execution of donor-financed projects (though even for this activity
it had to rely on the resources of the Prefecturas to cover the counterpart financing of those projects).
In light of the palpable deterioration of the national network, the governmental administration that assumed
power in August 1997, reversed the course and re-centralized the national network. On September 16,
1997, Law 1788 was passed by the Congress and full responsibility for managing and maintaining the



national network was restored to the SNC with an effective date of January 1, 1999. In August 1998,
Supreme Decree No. 25134 reestablished a national network of about 11,000 km and mechanisms to
improve the financing of the maintenance of that network, including the establishment of a maintenance
account to be funded with 70% of toll revenues (the other 30% to remain with the Prefecturas). The "new"
SNC recovered those goods--such as traffic counters and axle-weight control equipment--which had also
been transferred to the SEPCAMs as part of the decentralization process and departed with a limited cadre
of professionals and the need to outsource the maintenance of the national network (as the previous
maintenance workforce had also been entirely transferred to the Prefecturas). As much statistical
information on traffic and road condition had not been collected during the "decentralized" period, the
newly created SNC lacked the capacity to revamp the maintenance management systems developed
previously and to program investments on the basis of actual economic and traffic data. In addition, the
process had undennined the motivation of staff and instilled non-transparent procurement practices.
This situation led the GOB to focus on reinvigorating the SNC. By December 1999, the GOB initiated a
renewal process by replacing the managers at the helm of the SNC and agreeing with donors on a major
institutional restructuring process and overhaul of that agency, with a shift in its mandate from one heavily
tilted towards administering its own workforce to another one that focused on administering contracts and
managing results. The process consisted of four key elements: (a) definition of a Strategic Plan
highlighting institutional shortcomings and the specific actions to address them; (b) definition of the
organizational structure and functioning of the SNC to efficiently and effectively carry out its
responsibilities as defined under the Strategic Plan; (c) appointment of an Executive President and four
members of a Board of Directors on the basis of technical and managerial qualifications; and (d)
appointment of technical and administrative staff on the basis of merits and the relevant qualifications. The
organizational structure and the related staffing needs were to be sanctioned under an Institutional Reform
Agreement (or ARI for its Spanish name). The institutional reform process was undertaken with the
participation of civil society, all levels of the governmental administration, and other key stakeholders and
was and has been supported with resources from Credit BO-2395 (Second Road Maintenance Project) and
Credit BO-3245 (Institutional Reform Project). (Box I summarizes the key steps of the process.)
-6-



Box 1. Key Steps of the Institutional Reform of the Servicio Nacional de Caminos
At project identification, an overall assessment of the institutional framework for the road sector highlighted important
weaknesses in the capacity of the key sector entity-the SNC-for managing the road assets in the country. A program of
actions was established to revamp that institutional framework with an aim at transforming the entity into a highly technical
entity entrusted with the efficient and transparent execution of the annual road investment and maintenance plans. This
required the appointment of staff on the basis of managerial and/or technical qualifications and the establishment of
sustainable mechanisms for the financing of maintenance.
In January 2000, a two-week long workshop (following the methodology named Situational Strategy Planning, or PES for its
Spanish name of Ptlneacion Estratdgica Situacional) was held in La Paz with the SNC managerial staff and other key
stakeholder to identify the principal problems facing the sector and from them the strategy to address them. Subsequently, a
series of other seminars took place with participation of civil society. The main weaknesses singled out in the Strategic Plan
were: (a) absence of a state policy for road development; (b) inadequate technical and administrative organization of the SNC;
(c) insufficient, untimely and ill-distributed resources to attend the maintenance needs of the national network; and (d)
consequently, high level of deterioration of the national network. These general problems lead to factors that overall generate
substantial economic losses to the country and hampers the social and economic advancement of its poorest regions. The
identified problems have led to the definition of specific actions for addressing them, chief among them: (a) a new system of
staff recruitment and of career development (the so-called "institutionalization"); (b) establishment of a policy of road users'
charges to ensure the adequate financing of the sector requirements; (c) the creation of an institutional planning system; and
(d) implementation of road infrastructure management systems.
As part of this process, the key stakeholders defined a vision and a mission for the entity that would drive their organizational
goals and the activities of its employees, towards transforming the SNC into an organization of high performance, highly
regarded by the Bolivian society. The vision focuses on user-oriented goals, such as the need to (a) know, understand and
attend the needs of road users, and (b) provide the maintenance of the road network with attention to service quality and
environmental issues. On the basis of that vision, the mission statement for the entity was defmed as: "Serve the society
through the provision of a transport system for the core (national) network that is safe and of high quality, promoting the
national and intemational integration, contributing to the development of Bolivia and the social and economic well-being of
the population, through the application of technical norms and the swift and efficient administration of the internal and
external resources." This mission led to the definition of institutional objectives and a performance strategy that allowed to
prepare an organizational structure of the SNC with particular attention to five key functions: (i) strengthening of human
resources; (ii) organization and diffusion of information; (iii) contracting out all the functions that can be undertaken more
efficiently or economically by outside parties; (iv) strict and efficient supervision of contracts; and (v) strategic planning for
management control. The new organization would require about 300 employees, a number similar to that of the number of
regular employees who remained after the decentralization process.
The output of these seminars/workshops became the framework and the basis for including the SNC as a key entity to reform
under the Law of Economic Reactivation of April 3,2000. Since then and until the end of 2001, the GOB moved, albeit ina
protracted manner, to implement the dictates of that Law, with tbe appointment first of the Executive President and members
ofthe Board of Directors in September 2001, and second ofthe unitmanagers by endDecember 2001. In addition, on
September 29,2001, a Supreme Decree (number 26336) was issued establishing the new organizational structure of the SNC
and the framework for the inclusion of road users' charges in the fmancing of maintenance. In January 2002, the new
management team convened at another workshop to revisit, confirm, and update the conclusions of the Strategic Action Plan
(this time for the period 2002-2007).
The executing unit for the Institutional Reform Project, located at the Office of the Presidency, through a private management
firm, has undertaken the process of selection of staff on the basis of professional merits, on the basis of the organizational
structure, including its financial requirements. This program is accompanied with specific institutional development actions
to address the shortcomings identified in the Strategic Action Plan. The program has been formalized under an Agreement of
Institutional Reform (or ARI for its Spanish name, Acuerdo de Reforma Institucional) (to be) signed by the Ministry of
Finance, the Institutional Reform Project and the SNC to sanction and finance the costs of the institutional reform (with the
identification of staffing needs and strengthening actions).
Simultaneously, the Government has proceeded with the establishment of a Road Maintenance National Account, to be
funded with resources from tolls and an increasing tariffs from a portion of fuel taxes, and the SNC has undertaken actions for
improving road collections, and revamping its planning, supervision and intemal control functions to maximize the use of
available resources. This actions, complemented with the development of transparent procurement and contracting systems,
would complete the reversion of the institutional weaknesses singled out at project identification.
Deteriorated road network conditions. The weakness of the institutional framework affected the condition
of the network (particularly, of the     1,000 kilometers of national roads, of which one third is paved). From
1991 to 1995, with support from several multilateral financial institutions in rehabilitation activities, the
condition of the network improved steadfastly. However, the amount of resources allocated to
maintenance, albeit increasing, was not yet sufficient for the proper long-term upkeep of road assets.
- 7 -



Upon the approval of the Administrative Decentralization Law, the level of maintenance of the road
network was further reduced to a third of the previous limited levels, according to statistics from the
Ministry of Economic Development and the SNC. Unfortunately, during the "decentralization" period, data
on road condition (and other traffic data) were scant, and it has become difficult to assess the actual impact
of the decentralization process on road condition. Nevertheless, it is safe to say that the national network
suffered a dangerous deteriorating trend and key sections of the network are in need of urgent
rehabilitation, lest the future rehabilitation and maintenance costs will increase even further. The table
below shows the most up-to-date detailed estimate of the condition of the network based on a visual
inspection of the road network. The table shows that in May 2000, only about 11% of the national network
was at least in good condition (down from an estimated 15% in 1999), though there was a reduction in the
number of kilometers in poor or very poor condition, almost doubling the number of kilometers in regular
condition. With the completion of several rehabilitation projects and a renewed interest and effort on road
maintenance, another visual inspection carried out in September 2001, showed an increased to about 19%
in the number of kilometers in at least good condition. The percentage however remains fairly low by its
own value and by international comparisons.
Lenath {km)l and CondKdion of 1olhn Naonal Netork. 2000
Length of
National                                                   In      Urban
Road                  Condition (number of km)         construction  road
Department   Network Verr Good  Good  Reoular  Poor  Very Poor  Toal  or oroteated seoment
La Paz          1,676     -      146     656     430      89    1,321      330     25
Chuquisaca       731      -       -      512     198      -      710       -       21
Taijia           690      -        5     511      80      66     662       -        28
Cochabamba       816      83     237     143     251      83     798       -        18
Santa Cruz      3,017      1     265    2,135    567      11    2,978      -        38
Orunr            722      61     155     239     210      33     698       -        24
Potosi          1,090     -       45     589     295     137    1,067      -       23
Pando            476              33     397      46      -      476               -
Beni            1.201     -       86     136     384     589    1.196      -        5
Total  10.419    145     972    5.319   2.462   1.009   9.906     330      183
The deteriorating condition of the network during the "decentralization" period was amplified by the low
level of execution of the budget. An analysis of the execution of the road maintenance budget by the main
Prefecturas (traversed by 67% of the kilometers of the national road network) during that "decentralization"
period, shows deficient levels (see Chart below). This inefficiency in the management of the maintenance
budget coupled by the already low levels of that budget (compared to the needs, taking into account the
condition of the network and the traffic on it) compounded to create the deteriorated condition described in
the previous paragraph. At the National Roads Agency or SNC (the acronym for its name in Spanish:
Servicio Nacional de Caminos), the level of execution of the budget decreased substantially during the
"decentralization" period, falling behind the comparator for the overall national government after a high
level during the 1990-1994 (that reflects a similarly high level of investments supported by international
donors).
-8 -



BEmd,SA PFned BaxF                              Budget Execution
FhedWhw*~67%d196991ianak
2D0.0%
1X0%            -                              180.0%
8 90% ,  , , , ,,, ,-4 *                           .0%
2 )6      .    '     "''-                        140.0%    /\
.g70%  __        ..        '        --hxpsac   5 120.0%  /\
ea s                                              i% 100.0%
o3G%               '...... O ,.                 , 40.D%
' 20                                            20.0%
o%                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1990  1992  1994  1996  1998
195 1996    1  9b 97  se                                     Ya
0 E%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The need to establish sustainable road maintenance practices andfinancing. Upon the re-centralization of
the national network, the SNC, lacking the human resource it had before the "decentralization" period,
designed and implemented a program of contracting private enterprises to undertake the maintenance of the
road network. A pilot program was initiated with resources from Credit 2395-BO (Second Road
Maintenance Project). The pilot was successful in providing a testing ground for undertaking road
maintenance with private contractors. However, it proved too short lived and the national program of
maintenance developed thereafter did not count with the same level of resources (for both maintenance
activities and for supervision) and the experience after almost three years was, in general, less than
satisfactory in terms of improvements to the condition of the network. The program however has been a
valuable learning process in contracting out maintenance and helped promote a private industry which can
efficiently undertake road maintenance activities.
The national program of maintenance has been financed with the resources collected from road tolls and,
for emergency works, additional contributions from the National Treasury. The road tolls are deposited in
the Road Maintenance National Account created in August 1998 with Supreme Decree No. 25134. With
this mechanism, the GOB made a clear--even if still insufficient--commitment to the desirability and need to
fund adequately the maintenance of roads. However, as toll collection had been contracted out by the
Prefecturas ahead of the recentralization of the national network on terms in general advantageous for the
private collecting finns, the system lacked the flexibility to reduce the administrative costs claimed by the
toll collection companies and incorporate policy decisions on toll rates. In 2001, the SNC overtook the
legal responsibility over the toll collection contracts and is in the process of reviewing them towards the
implementation of an action plan to improve their future terms.
At the departmental level, upon the re-centralization of the national network with the SNC, the SEPCAMs
of the Prefecturas remained responsible for the secondary network of about 6,000 kilometers and retained
the labor and heavy equipment transferred to them under the decentralization process. The capacity of the
SEPCAMs to perform their activities in their road networks has been reduced. This is due to several
aspects, key among them: (a) the constrains of the resources for the sector, as their administrative costs are
high (labor costs absorb most of the 30% of road tolls that are allocated for the maintenance of the
secondary road networks) and keeping the heavy equipment operational has generated a financial burden,
though the budgets often appears large as the Prefecturas remain responsible for providing the counterpart
financing for the investments undertaken with extemal funds; (b) the tendency to attend requests from
-9-



municipalities to attend with the heavy equipment of the SEPCAMs the periodic and emergency
maintenance activities on rural roads that are not under the jurisdiction of the Prefecturas; and (c) the
deficient planning and management capacity due to lack of appropriate infonnation systems and limited
numbers of qualified technical staff. Furthermore, the decentralization scheme and experience dissociated
the SNC from the SEPCAMs (that to a great extent were built from the previous SNC's district offices)
and the relationship became one more of distrust rather than cooperation (in spite of the fact that the
Prefecturas are deconcentrated units of the central government, with a mandate that should respond to the
strategies of that central government). As part of the Strategic Development Plan, the need for
coordination among the different levels of government and sector institutions, and considering the feeder
(departmental) road network another element of the surface transport system, was identified as another
important institutional action that has become part of the GOB strategy for the sector.
In the past, of all the charges collected from road users only those collected through road tolls have been
allocated to road-related activities. Seventy percent of these resources is deposited into the Road
Maintenance National Account (or CNCV for its Spanish name, Cuenta Nacional de Conservacion Via!)
created in 1998 for the use of the SNC. However, road users pay to various levels of government a variety
of charges through the use, acquisition and transfer of vehicles, the consumption of fuel, and the use of
roads. In 2000, the amount collected through these charges were as follows: from fuel taxes, US$204
million; from tolls, US$21.2 million; from vehicle licenses, US$19.6 million; from used-vehicle transfers,
US$4.4 million; and from vehicle import taxes, US$44.1 million. In all, road users contributed about
US$295 million. With the discount of a valued added tax for fuel consumption (of 12%) and those taxes
that are generally applied to other goods in the economy, the total amount of users' charges in 2000 was
above US$250 million, more than three times the US$78 million estimated to be necessary to cover the
routine and periodic maintenance costs for all the road networks (national, secondary and rural, but
excluding urban roads).
With the progress in the institutional reform and the definition of the definition of the strategic development
plan, the GOB proceeded in September 2001 with the approval of a Supreme Decree that sanctioned the
possible allocation of a broad spectrum of road users' charges to the CNCV. The CNCV constitutes an
account for the exclusive use of the SNC where the collections from the tolls and other possible road users'
charges are deposited. As such, the account, though it does not constitute more than a bank account, it has
the possibility of incorporating mechanisms for increasing the resources as required by the needs of the
road network. On January 23, 2002, the GOB approved another Supreme Decree (No. 26487) allocating
an increasing percentage of the revenues collected from taxes on fuel consumption to the CNCV. In this
manner, the resources allocated to the maintenance of road assets is expected to be built up to achieve the
level of financing required for the proper up-keep of road assets. As a first step the focus of the CNCV is
on the financing of the maintenance needs on the national network. Upon the building up of the resources
further options are expected to be assessed to include other levels of the road network and alternative
options for the management of the CNCV.
In sum, the most salient sector issues center on the underlying weak institutional framework to manage and
finance the improvement and preservation of road assets coupled with shaky maintenance practices which
were difficult to enhance and sustain due to poor management and lack of resources. This overall situation
has created in the past a vicious circle of disinvestment, complaints by the users, an animosity towards the
sector institutions from the general public, and the ensuing reluctance to contribute to the needs of the
sector. The current GOB strategy of "institutionalization" of the SNC, complemented with the allocation of
specific road users' charges for road maintenance, and actions for revamping the inter-institutional
cooperation should follow through to establish a sustainable path. The Project attempts to collaborate in
this direction.
- 10 -



Road Directorate, Ministry of Transport, Denmnark, "Road Safety in Latin America and the Caribbean Analysis of the Road Safety Situation in Nine
Countries," 1998.
2World Bank, "Bolivia Public Expenditure Review," Report No. 19232-BO, Country Managemnent Unit, Country Department VI, Latin America and
Caribbean Region, June 14, 1999.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The design of the project and the institutional reforms in the road sector advanced ahead of project
appraisal emanated from the strategies of the CAS of June 1998 and of the PRSP of March 2001. The
needs of the sector are multifaceted and encompass a variety of institutional and investment actions. A
strategic choice was made to center on assisting the GOB in the consolidation of the institutional reforms
and in tackling the most critical issues on an incremental fashion as a manner to generate the desired effects
and the stakeholder awareness and consensus for further actions and interventions. In this respect, the
Project components largely focus on activities that affect the national network, while initiating a pilot at the
secondary (Prefectura) level.
Consolidation of institutional reform and building up management capacities. The project seeks to
consolidate the institutional reform process initiated in January 2000 to overhaul the national road agency
(the SNC) and with it the management of the national road assets in Bolivia. The key steps undertaken up
to project appraisal were summarized in Box 1 in the previous section. These steps have helped establish
the managerial base at the SNC. The Project will support the GOB in building up the institutional reform,
in coordination with other actions undertaken by other intemational donors, through specific technical
assistance and institutional development actions. These actions focus on strengthening procurement and
management practices, developing a results-oriented culture, improving cost recovery, and enhancing the
contractual mechanisms to maintain road assets. These actions will assist the GOB in continuing and
deepening the development of the legal framework that sanctioned the reform and provided a safeguard
against reversal of the steps taken thus far.
Creation of an accountability frameworkfor thefinancing of road maintenance. In the past, maintenance
activities in Bolivia have encountered a key difficulty in the limited amount of the allocated resources. The
Government, pressed by the need to achieve fiscal targets and encountering competing needs from various
sectors, has restricted the allocation to the amounts being collected from tolls. The reality however has
often been different as the poor condition of the network has often required substantial expenditures on
emergency works. Road users, faced with a deteriorated infrastructure and suspicious of the capacity of
the road agency, have often been reluctant to proposals that would have increased their burden in
shouldering the costs of maintaining road assets. The Project seeks to help the Government redress this
unsustainable situation by supporting the establishment and funding of a maintenance account. (The
associated IDA credit will be provided on a declining basis (in percentage terms) to allow phasing in the
application of increased users' charges.) It is expected that this support coupled with the institutional
reform process would enhance the managerial capacity of the SNC, improve the condition of the road
network, and instill payment by road users for the use of the improved and adequately-managed road
infrastructure.
The support to the establishment of the account constitutes a first step in creating a more encompassing
mechanism for the adequate maintenance of road assets at all network levels. The support seeks to elicit
the knowledge of stakeholders about the maintenance requirements and costs and established a foundation
for increased participation of these stakeholders in the management of that account. Furthermore, over
time, the increased resources coupled with improved accountability and management practices for the
- 11-



national network will allow the consideration of expanding the use of the account resources to the other
road networks in the country.
Preservation of key segments of the national network. The project seeks to complement other (larger)
efforts being pursued with financing from other donors (mainly the IDB and the CAF) in improving the
condition of the network and expanding its coverage. Given its institutional emphasis, the project focuses
on the preservation of existing assets as an additional means to develop the management capacity to
upgrade the condition of the national network. The rehabilitation of key segments of the national network
and the maintenance activities to be funded with the resources of the maintenance account would contribute
to attain adequate service standards and maintain the core network in a satisfactory condition over time and
reduce the infrastructure bottlenecks that currently constrain road transport.
Building-up the inter-institutional coordination to improve management of secondary network.
Furthermore, the Project will start up and test technical assistance and coordinating mechanisms between
the SNC and the Prefecturas' SEPCAMs to ensure consistency of road policies and investments across the
country, help the SEPCAMs revamp its road management capacities and support the SEPCAMs' own
interest in improving the programming of road maintenance and rehabilitation priorities and the
accountability of their activities. This component, with its investment and institutional actions, constitutes
a new initiative for Bolivia and one that the Project will introduce as a pilot in four of the country's nine
Prefecturas. It is expected to constitute a platform for the future collaboration of the SNC and the nine
SEPCAMs and an alternative model for improving the condition of the secondary network.
Develop awareness in areas such as road safety. As a distinct element of the strategy and one to be
pioneered in Bolivia, the Project includes a road safety initiative. Most activities on the subject supported
by donors have been limited to the acquisition of goods to enhance the horizontal and vertical signalization
of roads. The project would go beyond this aspect and initiate the definition and establishment of an
institutional framework that would permit the proper coordination in the attention of road safety issues, and
of an accident reporting system to adequately monitor accident rates and counteract with the relevant
remedial actions.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1: Rehabilitation of priority segments of the national road network This component
includes the rehabilitation of 353.1 km of national roads between (a) Calamarca and San Pedro (165.1 Iam),
on the main road from La Paz to Oruro (and from this town to Cochabamba and Santa Cruz), and (b)
Boyuibe and Yacuiba (188.0 Im), providing continuity to the road Abapo-Camiri (whose reconstruction is
being undertaken with support from Credit 3235-BO). These roads constitute critical existing segments of
the national network that, because they are substantially deteriorated, require immediate rehabilitation or
reconstruction. The SNC has undertaken an in-depth analysis of rehabilitation alternatives (using the
Bank-sponsored Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model or HDM) and selected the ones that
would report the largest economic benefits. The priority of these segments has been confirmed against the
results of the Transport Master Plan, a country-wide modeling tool that under the Vice-Minister of
Transport has allowed to established the transport priorities for the country in the medium term. All the
works will take place within existing rights-of-way and will not involve the displacement of population.
-12 -



Component 2: Pilot of rehabilitation of secondary (departmental) roads. In order to increase the
benefits from the rehabilitation of the segments of the national network, facilitate transport from low
income communities, and encourage adequate road management practices at the Prefecturas, this
component seeks to rehabilitate around 200 km of secondary roads. The selection of the these roads would
be based on eligibility criteria which would include: (a) road segments linking to main economic corridors
and contributing to the facilitation of access to and from those corridors; (b) a maximum rehabilitation cost
per km (of US$25,000), (c) specific institutional requirements to be completed by the relevant Prefectura
(in terms, among others, of road investment planning and maintenance financing and programming); (d)
compliance with social and environmental safeguardsand; and (e) other socio-economic criteria.
Component 5 would further provide support to the implementation of the institutional development actions
with the Prefecturas committed to their application. The pilot focuses on the Departments of La Paz,
Oruro, Chuquisaca y Tarija, that are the four departments the segments under component 1 transverse.
The Prefecturas of these departnents will compete for the available funds through the incentives to be
established by the compliance with the eligibility criteria. As in component 1, all the (limited) works under
this component will take place within existing rights-of-way and will not entail any resettlement of
population.
Component 3: Road Maintenance National Account (CNCV) and Resurfacing Program. This
component would contribute credit resources to the funding of a Road Maintenance National Account (or
CNCV for its name in Spanish: Cuenta Nacional de Conservacion Vial), on a yearly declining basis. The
CNCV would be the source of financing for the 2002-2006 routine maintenance and resurfacing program
for the national network. The Government has demonstrated its commitment to finance adequately the
maintenance of road assets by approving the establishment of the CNCV to be funded with resources from
various users' charges and specifying the details of the generation and use of those resources. In order to
phase in the incidence of these charges on road users and on the economy as a whole, their amount will be
increased incrementally over the life of the project, while the credit provides the difference, on a declining
basis, to cover the annual maintenance needs of the network. The credit resources will finance those
contracts with preponderance of periodic maintenance activities (resurfacing). The schedule of
contributions to the CNCV and the use of its resources were agreed upon at negotiations based on appraisal
mission findings and agreements. Strict compliance with existing environmental regulations will be applied
to all the maintenance activities undertaken with resources from the CNCV. Regulations for the operation
of the CNCV, including specific provisions for the processing of disbursements and the audit of technical
and procurement requirements, were agreed upon at negotiations.
Component 4: Technical Assistance. This component consists of four sub-components: (a) development
of a road safety initiative (complementing other activities being implemented with support from other
donors and from IDA) to strengthen the country's capacity to attend and reduce road accidents; (b)
pre-investment studies, to support the preparation of technical, social and environmental studies for new
road projects within the context of the results of the Transport Master Plan and the economic development
strategy of the Government of Bolivia (under terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank, with due
consideration to social and environmental safeguards), to fill the current gap produced by the lack of
completed new designs for enhancing Bolivia's road infrastructure; (c) supervision of rehabilitation works
of the two first components, estimated at 8% of the rehabilitation costs; (d) technical, financial and
performance audits of the proper use of the resources from the CNCV and the canying out of annual
independent opinion of trunk road-network conditions; and (e) impact evaluations, to assess the short-termn
impacts of the completed works and maintenance activities in the livelihoods of the populations along the
areas of influence of the affected road segments.
- 13 -



Component 5: Institutional development. This component includes support to the following key areas:
(a) the consolidation of the institutional reform of the sector entities, mainly the SNC and the SEPCAMs
(of the Prefecturas), with an emphasis on procurement and contracting practices and on maintenance and
investment programming systems, with an aim at achieving a more effective, financially-sustainable, and
efficient management of road assets in Bolivia; (b) the development of alternative mechanisms for carrying
out road maintenance activities, from microenterprises or performance-based contracts, towards enhancing
the efficiency of the use of the resources of the CNCV; (c) the development of information management
systems to strengthen financial accountability and contract management at the SNC; and (d) training in the
areas related to the technical assistance and institutional development sub-components. This component
would also include support to the Vice-Ministry of Transport as it relates to the responsibilities of this
Vice-Ministry in the road transport sector.
IndlaEt[ve            Bank-      % of
Componnt                    Sector        Coutq     % of    financing   Bank-
.__ _   t    Total     (USM)    financing
1. Rehabilitation works on key   Highways             36.39      12.8     29.11      37.8
segments of the national network
2. Pilot program of rehabilitation of  Highways        5.70       2.0      4.56       5.9
feeder (secondary) roads
3. Road maintenance national account Highways        211.84      74.6     37.76      49.0
and resurfacing program
4. Technical assistance services  Institutional       28.25       9.9      4.57       5.9
Development
5. Institutional strengthening   Institutional         1.82       0.6      1.00       1.3
Development
Total Project Costs                 284.00     100.0     77.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   284.00     100.0     77.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* Facilitating the overall economic development and social integration of the country by supporting
strategies that emphasize the up-keep of road assets towards reducing transport botdenecks and costs
and enhancing the reliability of surface communications;
*   Improving the condition of the road network through the rehabilitation of key segments of the national
and departnental network in order to enhance (i) the integration of main population centers and these to
export corridors and (ii) the interconnection of the communities in the area of influence of the road
segments to the mainstream economy;
* Contributing to the consolidation of the institutional reform of the national sector institution (the SNC)
which was initiated with resources from Credit 2395-BO (Second Road Maintenance Project) and
Credit 3235-BO (Abapo-Camiri Highway Project) and as part of Credit 3507-BO (Institutional
Reform Project), towards revamping the country's capacity to manage its road assets;
- 14 -



*   Opening the reform to the SEPCAMs at the Prefectura level, on a pilot basis, with an aim at enhancing
the prospects for better management of the secondary road network and ensuring consistency of road
policies across the country, which can then further enhance the possibilities for improved access to and
from poorer areas;
* Strengthening the framework, approaches and financing for the maintenance of road assets by
supporting the establishment and financing of a Road Maintenance National Account (CNCV), with
agreed upon procedures and bidding and financial management requirements, and through the
contribution to the CNCV continuing the support to altemative approaches for road maintenance (from
microenterprises to performance-based contracts); and
*   Reducing the incidence of road accidents by designing and implementing a road safety initiative that
attempts to strengthen and coordinate the actions of the related stakeholders.
3. Benefits and target population:
Significant long-term benefits will accrue from the institutional strengthening and technical assistance
programs to enhance the governmental capacity to manage road transport development and operations and
to promote and monitor the participation of the private sector in road maintenance. The project will bring
about cost savings to road users (in terms of savings in vehicle operating and travel time costs and
reduction of accidents), improved all-year-round passability of the network, facilitation of trade, and
avoidance of future major road reconstruction costs. The rehabilitation works will also bring benefits,
albeit temporary, to the local communities from the employment (and related income) generated in the
rehabilitation activities.
Reduced transport costs and travel times would help enhance the commercialization of products and
interchange of comnmunications and interactions between the towns connected with the road segments to be
rehabilitated. The road safety initiative would help to establish the basis for the future reduction (or, at
least, containment) of accident rates on the national road network, positively benefiting lower income
groups which count on buses as the only transport mode for long distance travel. (Buses represent up to
40% of vehicular traffic on some segments and have been the subject of dramatic accidents.)
Economic activities are sparsely distributed though largely along the East-West axis from La Paz to Santa
Cruz. The Departments of La Paz, Oruro, Cochabamba, and Santa Cruz house almost 75% of the
population and produce about 80% of the GDP; in 1991 (latest year for which data have been readily
available) they attracted 76% of the volume of imports and generated 69% of the export volume (though
51 % of the export value). In spite of the concentration of production along the La Paz-Santa Cruz axis, the
three major departments--La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz--combine the highest concentrations of
households with both poverty incidence (share of household with unsatisfied basic needs) and intensity
(share of households without a minimum level of basic services).
About half of the Project rehabilitation funds would be invested in the Altiplano highlands of the
Departments of La Paz and Oruro, where agricultural policies and institutions have not operated as
effectively as in the lowlands. In the highlands, poor, largely indigenous, small scale farmers have often
less access to markets. About the other half of the project rehabilitation funds will be invested in the
proximity of low income, agricultural areas of the Departments of Tarija and Chuquisaca where access to
markets have been limited due to the lack of adequate accessibility (and complementing the ongoing
IDA-financed investments in the reconstruction/rehabilitation of the Abapo-Camiri road). Furthermore,
- 15-



the pilot of the rehabilitation of the secondary network would encourage better management and
maintenance practices at the Prefecturas' SEPCAMs and would benefit the population (of lower incomes)
and farmers along the areas of influence of the rehabilitated corridors. Contributing to the improvement
of rural productivity of those farmers would be supported by the proposed project through the
improvement of transport interconnections in the areas along key segments of the national and
departmental networks.
In all, the target beneficiaries would encompass not only the long-distance transport services and users
between the main population centers and from those to the export markets at the end points of the
rehabilitated road segments, but also the population of the local communities along the areas of influence
of those segments through their better integration to social and economic activities. The support to the
funding of the CNCV would further help reduce overall transport costs for all population.
The World Bank, "Bolivia Poverty, Equity, and Income: Selected Policies for Expanding Eaming Opportumities for the Poor, Volume 1: The Main
Report," page 5, Report No. 15272-BO, Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Country Department III, Country Operations Division 1,
February 22, 1996
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Agency. The SNC, which has responsibility for the national road network, will be
responsible for the overall implementation of the Project and for the direct execution of the Project except
for the components of rehabilitation of secondary roads and implementation of an accident information
system. These components will be implemented respectively by the Prefecturas of La Paz, Oruro,
Chuquisaca and Tarija, and by the National Police Department. For these components, however, the SNC
will be responsible for monitoring compliance with the relevant procedures and eligibility criteria, providing
technical support, and requesting the disbursement of funds.
Within the SNC, a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), currently managing the Abapo-Camiri Highway
Project (Credit 3235-BO), would coordinate the project implementation activities with SNC's technical and
administrative units. These units encompass the road maintenance unit, the socio-environmental unit, the
studies and planning unit, and the financial and administration unit. In all, these units are staffed with
engineers and procurement experts who would provide the necessary knowledge for the execution of the
Project and with planners and financial management specialists who would provide the skills for the
implementation of the technical assistance activities and the management of the Project.
The pilot component for the rehabilitation of secondary roads will be implemented by the respective road
agencies (SEPCAMs) of the participating Prefecturas following procedures, eligibility criteria, and
inter-institutional arrangements agreed upon at appraisal and confirmed at negotiations. The SNC will
enter into agreements with the participating Prefecturas for the purpose of establishing the conditions for
the participation of the SEPCAMs in the implementation of that component of the Project. Such
agreements will provide the obligations of the participating SEPCAMs in: (i) complying with the relevant
set of informational and institutional requirements; (ii) implementing the institutional action plan to be
agreed upon with the SNC; (iii) making the necessary arrangements so that the road subprojects are carried
out following appropriate procurement and contractual practices; and (iv) making the budgetary allocations
and releasing the counterpart funds on a timely basis. The agreements will also provide the obligations of
the SNC in respect of informing the participating SEPCAMs about Project-financed activities, making the
arrangements for the delivery the relevant techrical assistance in roads management; monitoring
compliance with relevant procedures and eligibility criteria; and evaluating jointly with the SEPCAMs the
results of the pilot component for the rehabilitation of secondary roads.
- 16 -



The maintenance component related to the CNCV would be executed by the SNC, using the resources of
the CNCV as the proceeds for financing the routine and maintenance program of the SNC. The SNC
would follow the procedures delineated in the CNCV manual (to be legally approved at the ministerial
level), allocating the resources to the eligible activities (for civil works and consultants' services), and in
accordance with specific procurement and contractual rules (including appropriate environmental
practices). The SNC will also be required to follow specific reporting and audit procedures, to confirm the
appropriate use of the CNCV resources. The SNC will procure and supervise the maintenance contracts to
be financed with the CNCV resources in the same manner as it does for its ongoing maintenance contracts,
and will submit to IDA the pertinent documentation for processing IDA's declining contribution to the
financing of contracts under the resurfacing program. The three year experience of the SNC in contracting
out maintenance activities, albeit with difficuties in achieving its performance objectives (in terms of
imnprovements to road conditions), should ensure the adequate implementation of this component of the
Project.
The road safety initiative will be implemented by the National Police Department. The SNC will enter into
an agreement with National Police Department for the purpose of establishing the PNB implementation
responsibilities for such sub-component of the Project including compliance with the relevant procurement
processes, the provision of support for carrying out the consultant services, and the sharing of information
upon completion of the development of the accident information system.
The project would provide funds (under its technical assistance component) to finance the Project
Coordinating Unit, to be staffed by at least two engineers/managers (with experience in procurement,
institutional relations, and engineering matters), who would also collaborate in following up the
implementation of the ongoing Abapo-Camiri Project. The PCU will coordinate the provision of technical
assistance services to the SNC, the SEPCAMs, the VMT, and the National Police Department, and will
support the SNC in carrying out the procurement for the various Project components and the application of
the procedures set in the Project Operational Manual. The PCU will work closely with the management of
the SNC to ensure the achievement of the project objectives and strategies and the proper internalization of
the lessons to be learned during project implementation into the activities of the SNC.
Project Operational Manual. In order to facilitate the implementation of the project's various components
and clarify the responsibilities and activities of each implementing unit, the SNC will use a Project
Operational Manual that will define the guidelines and procedures to be followed in the execution of the
project. The format and content of the manual were agreed upon at negotiations and its adoption by the
SNC is a condition of effectiveness. Indicatively, the manual would include: (i) description of background,
objectives, and components of the project; (ii) institutional framework and responsibilities of the various
units of the SNC, the SEPCAMs, the National Police, and the VMT; (iii) the list of indicators to assess the
performance of each unit in the implementation of each project component; (iv) procedures for project
administration and flow of funds; (v) environmental and social guidelines to be followed in the execution of
project works and to mitigate any possible adverse impacts to the natural or social habitats which may be
generated by the rehabilitation of national or secondary roads; (vi) procurement procedures for works,
consultants services, and the acquisition of goods; (vii) obligations of the SNC in monitoring the project
and reporting its progress; and (viii) a set of model documents for items such as: (a) agreements with the
Prefecturas and the National Police, (b) Indigenous People Development Plan, (c) Social Plan, (d) terms of
reference for specific consultant services, (e) standard bidding documents and contracts for works, (f)
letters of invitation and contracts for consultant services, (g) terms of reference for operational, technical,
and financial audits, (h) training plan, and (i) the regulations for the use of the resources from the CNCV,
the ARI, and other supporting legal documentation.



Implementation Period. Project implementation is expected to start by July 1, 2002 and be completed by
June 30, 2007.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. At appraisal, an IDA-certified Financial
Management Specialist carried out an assessment of the SNC and satisfactorily vetted that the SNC has in
place the appropriate financial management system. As a result of this evaluation: (i) it was determined
that the accounting system can support the preparation of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
acceptable to the Bank, and (ii) an agreement on an action plan to continue strengthening the financial
management and internal control functions has been reached with SNC. During project implementation,
the SNC would be required to contract independent external auditors and present to the IDA the relevant
audit reports of the project accounts, the Special Account and SOEs and of the entity as a whole within six
months of the closing of the SNC fiscal year. Furthermore, on an annual basis, the SNC would be required
to contract independent technical and financial auditors to undertake a performance audit of the CNCV,
including an independent opinion on the condition of the national road network. Audit fees for the financial
and performance audits are being financed out of the proceeds of the IDA credit related to the Project as
consultant services.
Other Reporting Arrangements. In order to ensure an enhanced knowledge of the activities of the SNC
and encourage more transparent practices, the SNC will be required to prepare and furnish to IDA, an
annual report with respect to the operational and financial perfornance of the SNC and to the schedule of
actions to be implemented to attend identified shortcomings, and disseminate this report to the public. The
report will include information on: (i) status and progress in the execution of construction, rehabilitation
and maintenance contracts under the responsibility of the SNC; (ii) the expenditures incurred in the
maintenance of national roads (routine and resurfacing) in the preceding year; (iii) the corresponding use
and allocation of the CNCV resources in that preceding year by type of maintenance contract; (iv) the
results of SNC's rating of the condition of the national roads; (v) an independent opinion on that rating; (vi)
status and progress in the implementation of the institutional reform; and (vii) statistical information on
traffic volumes and other relevant data. The publication of this annual report is in line with the
requirements established in the ARI.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Annual reviews would be held to assess the progress in
project implementation and to agree on the necessary actions for the next review period. The reviews
would focus inter alia on: (a) advances in the institutional reform and reorganization of the SNC; (b) the
progress in the project implementation schedule; (c) the level and composition of the resources allocated to
the CNCV for the fiscal year in which the review takes place; and (d) the performance against the project
monitoring indicators. Agreement was reached at negotiations that SNC would provide: (a) every six
months, detailed progress reports to the Bank for monitoring purposes on the basis of a format and
methodology acceptable to the Bank; and (b) within six months of the closing date, an input to the Project
Implementation Completion Report. The project includes funds to undertake technical and financial
performance audits, including those corresponding to the use of the resources from the CNCV, and an
evaluation of impacts at about 24 months ahead of the completion of the project.
The results of the reviews will be shared with the Nordic Development Fund, specifically those related to
the technical-assistance components to be financed with NDF resources (pre-investment studies, road
safety initiative, and institutional-development actions).
Mid-Term Review. By December 31, 2004, the GOB and the Bank would conduct a mid-term review of
the progress in implementation, which in addition to the items covered in the annual review, would focus
inter alia on: (i) the adequacy of funding for the maintenance of the national network; (ii) the adequacy of
- 18 -



alternative contractual mechanisms for undertaking the maintenance of the national road network; and (iii)
an assessment of the changes in the stock and conditions of the national road assets. It will further include
a review of the progress made by the Borrower in: (i) managing the maintenance of the national road
network; (ii) implementing the rehabilitation and maintenance components of the project; and (iii) carrying
out the program of institutional building of the SNC and of the SEPCAMs, and the road safety
sub-components of the project. The mid-term review will be carried out with representatives from the
Ministry of Economic Development, the Vice-Ministry of Public Investment (VIPFE), the VMT, SNC,
eligible SEPCAMs, and, as agreed between the SNC and the IDA ahead of the date of the mid-term review,
other donors and stakeholders such as associations of road users and members of the civil society.
Bank Supervision. In line with the precepts established under the Comprehensive Development
Framework, a joint Government/Bank team would supervise the project. Bank supervision will liaise with
other international donors to coordinate actions and strategies that may emanate from the implementation of
projects in the road sector. The presence in a neighboring country (Peru) of the World Bank FPSI Sector
Leader will help ensure the adequate close coordination and communication with the execution institution,
other units of the GOB, and the international donors. It is estimated that an average of about 30 staff
weeks a year will be required for supervising the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project scope. The initial project design focused largely on investments in the rehabilitation of key road
segments. Given the weakness in road maintenance and management, this design shifted to incorporate the
support to the CNCV as a mechanism to integrate the maintenance and rehabilitation functions and instill
an encompassing strategy for addressing road management shortcomings in Bolivia. In light of the
competing issues at various levels, the sector issues selected to be addressed by the project underpin an
incremental process.
The alternative of expanding the use of the CNCV on the maintenance of other networks (such as
secondary roads under the SEPCAMs) was discarded for two main reasons: (i) given the weakness of the
institutional base of the SEPCAMs and their prevailing (force account) maintenance practices the
expansion of the use of the resources from the Project to the secondary network would have posed a
tremendous challenge and demanded substantial technical assistance and reform efforts; and (ii) the sector
priority centers in establishing an accountability framework for the upkeeping of the national network
which carries 80% of the vehicle-kilometers. In this respect, the alternative of focusing on the national
network was selected as a mechanism of raising the management and maintenance stantards on that
network while opening up to the Prefecturasin a pilot.
Rehabilitation investments. At the preliminary identification of the project, the GOB presented a list of
potential road segments which required immediate rehabilitation. As the amount of resources was not
sufficient to cover all the items in that list, a process of analysis was undertaken to screen rehabilitation
projects and select those that represented key segmens of the main road network and helped achieve the
high economic returns. The screening of road segments was supported with cross referencing the list
presented by the GOB to the results of the Transport Master Plan (completed at the Vice Ministry of
Transport in November 2000). The Transport Master Plan generated a priority list of road segments with
a schedule for the implementation of the relevant interventions. A more detailed analysis of the screened
road segments was undertaken using the HDM program, in such a manner of identifying the optimum
rehabilitation alternatives which allowed to maximize net economic returns. The final selection of the
-19-



rehabilitation alternatives took then place by identifying those with the highest economic return.
For the pilot component for the rehabilitation of segments in the secondary road network, several
alternatives were explored for the establishment of the eligibility criteria for the assignment of this
component's resources, including a simple division among the beneficiary Prefecturas to an assignment
based on the corresponding length of the network to the finally selected criteria based on institutional
comnitment to reform and compliance with specific economic, social and environmental requirements. As
the main objective of this component is to help strengthen the management capacity of the Prefecturas, the
institutional criteria were given a greater weight over other physical and economic factors.
Lending instrument. Even if the project has not been prepared as an Adjustable Program Credit (APC) or
Programmatic Lending (PL) operation, its preparation and approval has pursued the achievement of
specific policy and institutional reforms that could have been part of a first phase of APC or a PL ahead of
project appraisal. Taking advantage of the existence of ongoing road projects and other IDA credits
(chiefly, the Institutional Reform Project), project preparation has accompanied the implementation of a
series of institutional and policy measures that should establish a solid basis for the future development of
the sector and the sustainable maintenance of road assets. During project identification, extensive
discussion has been given to the structuring of this operation as an APC or a PL. However, no major
advantages have been identified for this operation as the conditions for proceeding with the new project
have been largely implemented (including the approval of the legal framework) ahead of Project appraisal.
As such the project would be a vehicle for the consolidation of the institutional reforms underway with
support from other IDA credits. The options for the institutional reform were extensively discussed
through project preparation in consultations with key stakeholders and governmental entities, and finally
reflected in the Strategic Action Plan (see Box 1 in section B.2).
Setting up the CNCVas a commercially-managed roadfund. Strong consideration was given to design
the CNCV as a road fund, managed by a separate board with representation of road users' and the private
sector, and support this CNCV with disbursements to be made against achievement of specific performance
targets. However, the institutional conditions are not yet ripe for the implementation of such a scheme and
a more traditional system--based on an account at the Central Bank for the use of the SNC and
disbursements against specific contracts--was adopted as further progress takes place in building up the
institutional framework. At the annual reviews, an assessment of the management capacity and of the
experience with the CNCV will be undertaken and the alternative of switching to performance-based
disbursements or the establishment of a separate board--with participation of road users--for the oversight
of the CNCV will be vetted for future consideration. The expansion of the use of the resources of the
CNCV to other networks was discarded for the reasons explained earlier in this section. However, the
building up of the resources in the CNCV and the strengthening of the management and accountability in
the sector (and, in particular, at the SEPCAMs) may allow in the future the financing the maintenance
requirements at other network levels. An extensive study on the alternatives for the design of a road
maintenance account was carried out during project preparation (complete report in project files). An
in-depth analysis of the various potential road users' charges provided the analytical basis for the
Government's final preference of an incremental approach, starting by the establishment of an special
account--the CNCV--where the resources from users' charges are deposited for the use of the SNC in
carrying out its road maintenance plan (see details in Annex 11).
Inclusion ofpilot of maintenance microenterprises. During project preparation, a pilot of maintenance
with micro-enterprises was designed with resources from the Second Road Maintenance Project for
inclusion under the Project. However, the pilot was finally implemented with resources from the CAF and
its concept and approach adopted and internalized within the SNC. The structuring of this component was
- 20 -



based on experiences in other neighboring countries, largely in Peru and Colombia. The scheme currently
counts with resources from various donors. With these advances, the Project does not finally include the
pilot of maintenance microenterprises that was envisioned at the stage of the definition of the concept for
the Project Nevertheless, the maintenance program of the SNC includes activities that can be more
efficiently be performed with microenterprises and as such it should be part of the maintenance contracts to
be financed with the resources of the CNCV. As a mechanism to monitor the progress in expanding this
type of contractual arrangements for routine maintenance, the annual reports of the use of the resources of
the CNCV will include information on the scope and amount of activities undertaken with microenterprises
and about the productivity of the various types of maintenance contracts towards evaluating the most
adequate means to carry out maintenance activities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The table at the end of this section shows the list of key ongoing projects in the road sector financed by the
Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Andean Development Corporation (CAF), and the
Fondo para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata (FONPLATA). All projects are financing the
rehabilitation or maintenance of specific segments of the national network. And most projects include
specific technical assistance activities that attempt to strengthen the governmental capacity to manage road
assets. As a complement to that table, another table (immediately below) presents the main institutional
actions being undertaken with support from ongoing IDA and IDB credits as a map of the actions that
would be complemented with those to be pursued under the proposed project.
USS Amount
Activity Name                     Activity Description                                                        (Indicative)
Ventilla-Tarapaya Road Project
(IDB flnancing, with suplementary                                                               Total         5,800,000
financing from the NDF)
Strengthening of the national sectoral  Support to the Vice-Minister of Transport and the SNC in the development and use  600,000
planning function                of a Transport Geographic Information System and a Pavement Management System
Strengthening of the SNC planning  Support to the Planning Office of the SNC to develop an inventory of road assets and  1,000,000
function                         of the conditions of the roads
Strengthening of SNC information  Support to the SNC in the definition and implementation of an entity-wide   1,400,000
systems                          computer-based information system, mcluding the installation of an intranet, web
site, and e-mail systems
Strengthening of SNC capacity to  Support to the SNC in the design of a strategy for enforcing axle-load controls,  1,200,000
enforce axle-load controls       including the acquisition of axle-weight control scales
Strengthening of SNC on the      Support, with the hiring of specialized consultants, to the development of (i)  1,200,000
preparation of technical manuals  technical, environmental, economic and engineering manuals, and (ii) technical
studies on the use of new methodologies for stabilizing unpaved roads
Strengthening SNC's capacity to  Acquisition of equipment for measuring condition of the network and for developing  300,000
monitor condition of the network and  the SNC's quality control functions
its quality control functions
SNC Coordinating Unit for IDB    Internal and external coordination for project implementation, provision of   100,000
Projects                         administrative support and liaison with the IDB
Abapo-Camiri Road Project (IDA
financing)                                                                                      Total          500,000
- 21 -



Design and initiation of         Support, with the hiring of road concession experts, to undertake a feasibility study  100,000
implementation of a concession   of a road concession initiative for the (fuiite) San Jose-Puerto Suare= highway. (This
program                          technical assistance component has been cancelled as the IDA financing for this
project has been phased out. Its resources are being reallocated to the component of
the routine maintenance program)
IDA Coordinating Unit at SNC     Internal and external coordination for the implementation of IDA's projects in  100,000
Bolivia
Strengthenmng of the Enviromental  Continue the support iitiated with the Second Road Maintenance Project to  100,000
Unit at SNC                      strengthen the capacity of the Enviromnental Unit at the SNC
Routine Maintenance Program      Support to the definition of strategies for the routine maintenance of the national  100,000
network
Goods and services               Acquisition of cornputing equlpment and other office technologies and mformation  100,000
system  echmcal support to complement institutional developmnent actions
Training and other technical     Traning of SNC personnel and preparation of technical and financial audits  100,000
assistance
In addition, there are two other IDA-funded projects that relate to some of the strategies and components of
the proposed project. These two projects are the Institutional Reform Project (IRP), currently under
implementation, and the Decentralization Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC), approved
by IDA on May 15, 2001. The former attempts to address the institutional inefficiencies of the public
administration in Bolivia, through the change in the rules for hiring public officials, under the so-called
Institucionalizacion. This process is being applied, among others, to the National Customs Office, the
Intemal Tax Administration, and the National Road Agency (SNC). The IRP has supported the financing
of technical assistance studies for the design of the organizational structure of the SNC and the selection of
its managers and technical staff on the basis of professional merits. On June 13, 2000, a pre-agreement
was signed among the office of the Presidency--the unit responsible for the implementation of the
Institutional Reform Project--the Ministry of Economic Development and the SNC. The final agreement
was signed in January 2002. This agreement allows disbursements from the credit to finance the
incremental salary costs associated with "institutionalization" of the SNC in the years 2002 and 2003
(incremental to current staff expenditures and on the basis of a financial plan) and support specific
institutional development activities.
Based on an analysis of deficiencies in the decentralization framework of Bolivia, the Decentralization
PSAC attempts to support Government efforts, among others, to clarify responsibilities, establish clear
rules for access to credit, and help clean-up the finances of the Prefecturas and municipalities. The Project
would also emphasize the institutional strengthening of these entities and enhancements to their
accountability. As such, the proposed project would undertake actions at the Prefectura level that would be
fully coordinated with the strategies and components of the Decentralization PSAC.
latIst Siupervision
Sector Issue                               Project                         (PSR) Ratings
Bank-financed  I      DVr    only}
ImplementaUon      Developn ent
Bank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP)    Objectve (DO)
Improve conditions of key segments of       Abapo-Camiri Highway Project               S                 S
road network and strengthen                 (Cr. 3235-BO): closing date of
- 22 -



institutional capacity to manage road  June 30, 2004
assets
Support the institutional reform of key  Institutional Reform Project  S       S
governmental agencies, and change the (Cr. 3245-BO): closing date of
selection of staff to those under civil  June 30, 2005
service regulations
Clarify responsibilities, establish rules Decentralization PSAC (Cr.  S        S
for access to credit, and clean up  3507-BO): closing date of
finances of Prefecturas and      March 15, 2002
municipalities
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank  Cotapata-Santa Barbara Road:
(IDB): help improve competitiveness of 49.1 km, under construction,
the country's productive sectors, by  expected to finish in June 2002
enhancing the level of service of the
highway system and reducing costs for
users
Technical Assistance to the
Vice Minister of Transport on
prospects and framework for
road concessions, under
implementation, expected to
finish by mid 2002
Ventilla-Tarapaya: 60 kIn,
recently awarded, expected
closing date by December 2003
Pailon-San Jose: 219 kIn, under
preparation, studies expected to
finish by March 2002 and
approval by June 2002
Rio Seco-Desaguadero
(including bridge at the border
with Peru, in Desaguadero):
95.3 km, completed in January
2002, with co-financing from
the CAF
Andean Development Corporation   The following projects are
(CAF): help reduce vehicle operating  under construction with partial
costs and improve integration across  CAF financing:
regions in the country            Puente Sacramento-Surima (25
km): under execution
Padcaya-Campanario: 25 km
and extended 23 km to La
Mamora;
La Mamora-Emborozu: 20 km
Yotau-Ascension de Guarayos:
48 km
Ascension de Guarayos-San
- 23 -



Pablo: 113.51Im
Yamparaez-Tarabuco: 35 km
Potosi-Cuchu Ingenio: 37 kmn
Cotapata-Santa Barbara: 49.1
San Isidro-Mairana
(maintenance)
Cobija-Porvenir (maintenance)
Challapata-Ventilla: 93 km
Oruro-Toledo: 36.8 kmn
FONPLATA: strengthen planning    The following pre-investment
capacity through the support to the  studies are under preparation
preparation of new investment projects with FONPLATA financing:
Boyuibe-Hito Villaz6n: 135 kmn
Cuchu Ingenio-Villaz6n: 323
km
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) The Cotapata-Santa Barbara
Project (49.1 km) is under
construction with partial KfW
financing:
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank Group's first involvement in roads took place in 1978 with the Highway Maintenance Project
(Ln. 1567-BO) when Bolivia was an IBRD borrower. Later, after the stabilization program of 1985, The
Export Corridors Project (Cr. 2012-BO) was approved in May 1989. This project was completed on June
30, 1996, one year after the original completion date. Credit 2395-BO, the one that partially financed the
Second Road Maintenance Project, was closed on June 30, 2001, two-and-a-half years after the original
closing date. The Implementation Completion Report for the Export Corridors Project was completed on
May 15, 1997, while that for the Second Road Maintenance Project was completed on December 21, 2001.
The implementation of those two projects and of the on-going Abapo-Camiri project provide the following
lessons:
*      Projects often take longer than expected to be implemented as a consequence of the reshuffling of
managerial staff with changes in governmental administration. Employment instability decreases staff
morale and increases the possibilities of corruption. Shielding project implementation from staff changes
and low morale is not a simple task, but it could be improved by carrying out reforms in the civil service
through which a more limited but well-remunerated human resource base, subject to satisfactory
performance, assumes the responsibility for managing investment projects in the public sector. This lesson
is even more critical in countries like Bolivia where the managerial and technical human resources in the
public sector is limited. By delaying the implementation of the proposed project awaiting the necessary
institutional reforms along these lines, a stronger ground has been established for the effective
implementation of the Project within the agreed timetable.
*      The experience of the implementation of the Bolivian institutional reforms confirms that reform
processes, when undertaken without a clear consensus or pre-defined strategies, unlikely would produce the
intended results. The abrupt application of the Administrative Decentralization Law (ADL) to the road
- 24 -



sector during the implementation of the Second Road Maintenance Project lacked a clear strategy and
created havoc to the management of the road network. The experience showed that legislation is not
sufficient to achieve results, as it is also crucial to internalize strategies and concepts into the relevant
institutions, and to define an incremental process which would allow change to materialize in light of the
acquired practice and institutional capacities. This lesson has been applied to the on-going institutional
reform of the SNC as the preparation of the strategic development plan was undertaken in collaboration
with a wide spectrum of affected stakeholders with an aim at achieving the proper internalization of
strategies and actions.
*      The following issues have also arisen during the implementation of the Second Road Maintenance
Project: (a) enforcement capacity in the central administration for maintenance programs has been
inadequate; (b) commitment of central government to implement a sustainable financing mechanism for
maintenance has been weak, mainly because of the fear of political backlash if users do not perceive
noticeable improvements in road conditions ahead of new charges; (c) the financial and execution capacity
of local contractors has been limited; (d) the project management and internal control capacity of the SNC
has been less than adequate; (e) the contracting out of routine maintenance and all maintenance activities
does not produce the desire outcomes (in terms of road condition) when supervision is deficient and
resources are limited, particularly in a country like Bolivia with a large territory and road segments far
from the main populated centers; and (f) severe rains during the rainy seasons affected the pace of project
implementation. These issues would be incorporated in the design of the proposed project by advancing the
institutional reform process, enhancing the quality of designs and bidding documents, and defining
strategies (already identified in the Strategic Development Plan) to confront the need to revamp the users'
charges policies and improve the supervision of works and maintenance. The support to the CNCV will
allow to build up the institutional base and the necessary trust to the institution as road conditions are
improved and road users' charges are aligned with the maintenance needs of the road network.
The experience of other countries (in particular in Africa and Central America) with the implementation of
(so-called) second-generation road funds has been considered in the design of the CNCV with an aim at
ensuring a mechanism for the allocation of the necessary resources for the upkeep of road assets. These
funds are managed by a separate board representing in various degrees the interest of the road users. In
general, these funds have been somewhat sucessful in improving the administration of road funding and the
results in terms of better road conditions. However, in most cases the final definition of the level of
resources and their allocation has rested not as much within the separate board but with the government
budgetary authorities. Furthermore, governance issues and effective planning and execution capabilities
appear to be the essential elements to bring about sustainable reform effects, and the procedures for
securing the necessary resources and ensuring their proper use appear as inportant as the establishment of
a separate management of the fund. Considering this experience, the design of the proposed CNCV
emphasizes an incremental approach to allow the building up of execution capabilities of the sector entities
and the generation of awareness of users (and the general public) before advancing into more sophisticated
schemes for the sustainable financing of road maintenance.
Gwilliam, K.M. and Z. Shalizi, "Road Funds, User Charges and Taxes," The World Bank Research Observer, Volume 14, Number 2, August 1999;
and Gwilliamn, KIM. and Kumar, Ajay, "Road Funds Revisited: A Preliminary Appraisal of the Effectiveness of "Second Generation" Road Funds,"
Discussion Paper in TWU Series, TWU-47, The World Bank, January 2002.
- 25 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
From the outset of the identification of the project, the Government has been involved in the definition of
the project's logical framework and its components. The Government requested an earlier date for Board
presentation, but the preparation has taken longer than the Government wanted due to the need to advance
the institutional reform agenda to establish a solid ground for the implementation of the proposed project
(and of the one under execution). The strong commitment shown by the Government to the reform agenda,
with the most difficult key specific steps already accomplished, some of which required the approval by the
Congress with a majority of two-thirds of the representatives, provides a strong indication of borrower
commitment. In addition, the Government's support to the establishment and funding of the CNCV
(through the passage of a Supreme Decree that allocates a percentage of the receipts from the sales of
petrol fuels), shows a genuine commitment to ensure the proper financing of road maintenance.
Furthermore, the substantial advance in the preparation of the various documents related to the project is an
additional proof of the high priority the Government is assigning to the project. In addition, stakeholder
participation at the various events that took place during project preparation (logical framework, strategic
institutional reform plan) has always been high and active, showing further commitment and underpinning
the ownership of the project.
In the context of the CDF the project's objectives and components have been presented and discussed with
a wide spectrum of Governmental institutions, stakeholders and other international donors. This ensures a
stronger commitrnent and ownership not only from the borrower but also from a broad spectrum of
institutions which can be affected in a more direct or indirect manner by the implementation of the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The experience of IDA in providing advice and financial support to the sector in Bolivia spans for a period
of almost 10 years. In coordination with the IDB and the CAF, IDA has helped establish the policy and
institutional framework for the development of the sector. Through its sequence of loans to the transport
sector, IDA has built up credibility for adding value to the sector, by providing alternative models and
strategies about how to strengthen road management, how to establish financing and contractual
mechanisms for adequate and efficient maintenance, and how to plan and program investments and
maintenance activities. IDA involvement is also expected to benefit the quality of engineering designs and
bid documents, and foster improved practices in the areas of road safety, institutional reform, and
environmental protection. IDA will also bring its extensive knowledge on developing road management and
maintenance systems in the Latin-American countries and worldwide.
Given that the IDB has already lent a large amount of its available resources for road construction in the
past years and is planning another major operation in the coming year, and the CAF presents limits to the
additional amounts it can lent to Bolivia (due to debt reduction agreements, from which Bolivia is
benefiting through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Program, there exist limits on the amounts the
country may borrow on commercial terms), the GOB is seeking additional financing from the IDA to
confront Bolivia's needs for expanding and preserving its road assets.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$2 1.76 million; ERR = 27.0 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis of the key investment components of the project was carried out with the use of the
- 26 -



Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-3), which simulates the deterioration of the
road on the basis of existing conditions, the climate, and the traffic on the road, and measures the
incremental benefits to the users compared to a base, do-nothing alternative. The analysis encompassed the
simulation of about 6 different alternatives for each of the two key road segments in order to ascertain the
optimum level of investment considering a 10-year horizon. Under stringent demand-growth assumptions
of only around of 3.5 percent increase in normal traffic (from a base of about 1,200 vehicles per day for the
Calamarca-San Pedro segment and of 850 vehicles per day for the highest-travelled link on the
Boyuibe-Yacuiba segment) and no generated traffic, the HDM analysis yielded an economic rate of return
of 20.3 percent for the Calamarca-San Pedro segment, and of 33.3 percent for the Boyuibe-Yacuiba
segment. The prorated economic rate of return (on the basis of the size of the total size of the investments)
amounts to 27.0%. The net present values amount to US$5.10 million and US$16.66 million, respectively,
for a combined total of US$21.76 million. The two projects continue to show economic rates of return
above 12 percent in the event of decreases of 20 percent in the average daily traffic or/and increases of 20
percent in the rehabilitation and maintenance costs.
For the pilot component of rehabilitation of segments of the secondary network, to be undertaken through
the Servicios Prefecturales de Caminosof the Prefecturas (SEPCAMs), eligibility criteria has been
developed during project preparation, on the basis of (a) specific requirements to the SEPCAMs regarding
the preparation of maintenance plans and commitment to future adherence to them (e.g., in terms of
allocated resources) and agreements on coordination with the SNC, (b) the socio-economic viability of the
segments proposed for rehabilitation (based, in turn, on a combination of social indicators and, depending
on the traffic level and the cost of the investment, net economic benefit from potential agricultural
production in the area of influence of the road), and (c) compliance with environmental requirements
(summarized on a check list). Further details are provided in Annex 12.
Finally, maintenance activities to be financed with resources from the Road Maintenance National Account
(CNCV) would be programmed according to the results from the application of the HDM-4 maintenance
programming tool. This will ensure that maintenance priorities and activities respond to economic
principles. The first-year program of resurfacing activities include high priority segments with economic
rates of return well above 30%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The proposed project is aligned with the budget appropriations already approved for 2002 and the support
that the Government is receiving from other donors, such as the CAF and IDA to support the counterpart
financing of the project and the funding of the institutional reform process. The Government budget
program for the coming years shows a renewed interest in propping up economic growth and the reduction
of poverty through increased investments in road infrastructure as a mechanism to generate employment
and reduce transportation (and transaction) costs within the country. Project funding (counterpart)
requirements start at about US$24 million and rise to around US$47 million by project's end. As such the
finding requirements of the proposed project are kept within 20-25% of the expected road investment and
maintenance expenditures on the national network for the period of project implementation.
The overall investment program for the road sector has oscillated around US$120 million which has
represented between 20% and 30% of the total government budget. The project itself will not affect largely
the overall level of the public investment budget but it will require the allocation of an increasing share of
road users' charges in the future (under the CNCV) to ensure the sustainability of the project investments.
The estimated annual maintenance budget (for routine and periodic maintenance) has been estimated, on
- 27 -



average, at around US$43 million. The IDA Credit will help build up these financing needs contributing on
a declining basis (in percentage) to the resources of the CNCV.
Fiscal Impact:
The amounts collected from road users' charges in 2000 (about US$267 million, after discounting the taxes
generally applied to other goods) and those effectively allocated to road maintenance, rehabilitation and
construction (about US$130 million), show that, while cost recovery in the sector is not an issue, actual funding
allocations for the various roads program is highly dependent on budgetary decisions and external borrowing, with
very limited allocation to maintenance activities. Currently, the sector has only the road tolls as the direct
resources, but additional resources are necessary to keep the overall maintenance (routine and periodic)
needs well covered. The study carried out during project preparation calculated the alternative forms of
collecting charges from road users in the form of (a) vehicle import duties or annual licenses; (b) gasoline
and diesel taxes (above the standard level for value-added taxes); (c) road tolls; (d) used-vehicle transfer
fees; and (e) any other possible fee or tax. These data allowed to estimate the extent to which users are
contributing to the maintenance and rehabilitation needs of the road infrastructure and would provide an
first assessment of the extent to which recurrent costs (those related to routine and periodic maintenance)
can be covered through users' charges (hence generating a more sustainable fiscal balance for the sector).
The Government has expressed its commitment to implement an efficient and equitable road users' charges
policy and, on the basis of the analysis mentioned in the previous paragraph, submitted to the Bank a
(national) road maintenance program for the period 2002-2006 and an action plan for the sustainable
financing of that program. On January 23, 2002, the Government approved a Supreme Decree through
which it allocates to the CNCV an increasing share of the receipts obtained from the taxes charged to the
consumption of fuels. The share will increase from 5% in year 2002, to 10% in year 2003, and to 15%
from January 1, 2004, remaining at that level thereafter. In addition, the SNC has approved a plan of
action to enforce, update and improve toll collections. With both types of road users' charges,
complemented with resources from the IDA Credit, the routine maintenance and resurfacing program will
be adequately funded.
The projected revenues, including the decreasing contribution of the IDA Credit, would be enough to
achieve significant improvements in the condition of the national road network, provided the funding
allocated for road maintenance is actually spent on road maintenance (in line with the regulations for the
use of the CNCVs resources agreed upon at appraisal). The table below summarizes the maintenance
program for the period 2002-2006, including the financial requirements and the sources of financing. This
program will be reviewed on an annual basis. At negotiations, agreement will be reached about the specific
requirements that will be necessary to sustain the estimated level of users' charges for the appropriate
financing of the maintenance program. In addition, the approval of the regulations for the use, monitoring
and auditing of the resources from the CNCV will be a condition of effectiveness.
- 28 -



CNCV: Costs and Financing of Routine Maintenance and Resurfacing Programs
USS million, 2002-2006
Year                                                    2002      2003      2004     2005      2006   Total
Rotlae MNtnaw
Estinmated cost                                        20.6      24.2     21.8      19.7     20.0     106.3
CNCV Projected Sources of Financing
Tolls revenue                                           9.1      11.0     11.6      12.3     13.0      57.0
Fuel Tariffs                                            9.5     13.2      10.2      7.4       7.0      47.3
Total fmnancing  18.6     24.2      21.8     19.7      20.0     104.3
Rawfafig                                   -
Estimated cost                                         11.7     16.0      27.6      30.7     22.0     107.9
CNCV Projected Sources of Financing
Tolls revenue                                           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Fuel Tariffs                                            0.0      7.8      20.8      24.6     26.0      79.2
IDA Credit                                              9.3      9.8       7.2       8.0               34.3
Total financing   9.3     17.6      28.0      32.6     26.0     113.5
Total Routime Mantem e and Rnriklq
Estimated cost                                         32.3     40.2      49.4      50.4     42.0     214.2
CNCV Projected Sources of Financing
Tolls revenue                                           9.1      11.0     11.6      12.3     13.0      57.0
Fuel Tariffs                                            9.5      21.0     31.0      32.0     33.0     126.5
IDA Credit                                              9.3      9.8       7.2       8.0      0.0      34.3
Total fInancine  28.0     41.8      49.8      52.3     46.0     217.9
IDAfinancingas % oftotal                               33%       23%      14%       15%       0%       16%
IDAfinancingas%ofresurfacing                           800%     61%       26%       26%       0%       32%
Projected revenues tolls & fuel tariffs                18.6      32.0     42.6      44.3     46.0     183.5
Other financing (IDA Credit)                            9.3      9.8       7.2       8.0      0.0      34.3
Balance: National Treasury contributions/CNCV surplus  4.3       1.6       0.4       1.9      4.0       3.6
3. Technical:
The projects identified present no major technical difficulties in their design, supervision or rehabilitation.
They all consist on standard rehabilitation procedures with the use of available materials and machinery.
The project physical investments will continue the practices of the Second Road Maintenance and
Abapo-Camiri projects and, in this manner, will not incorporate novel technologies or exceptional
construction procedures. Furthermore, with resources from Credit 2395-BO, the SNC has developed a
manual for labor-intensive works to be undertaken in the rehabilitation of gravel roads and in maintenance
activities with microenterprises. In addition, the SNC's three-year experience with maintenance contracts
(based on quantities and unit prices) and the upcoming implementation of the comprehensive maintenance
component under the ongoing Abapo-Camiri Highway Project, has also established the basis for improving
the implementation of maintenance contracts and exploring alternative approaches, such as
performance-based maintenance contracts.
4. Institutional:
The capacity of the sector institutions to execute the project on time is one of the main risks, as the
institutional reform process, though sufficiently advanced that can unlikely be reversed, is still incipient.
The pace of approval of new projects (with financing from external donors) has intensified recently and,
given the institutional weakness, the program of road rehabilitation and improvement has moved at a slow
pace. The implementation capacity of the country for the last five years hovers around US$120 million per
year, which apparently has represented a maximum capacity for implementation of capital investments (in
construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and resurfacing). However, the institutional reform process
advanced ahead of project appraisal, is expected to yield efficiency improvements and an strengthened
management capacity to increase the use of investment resources in line with the infrastructure needs of the
country.
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 29 -



The SNC has a long tradition of executing project with external financing. However this tradition has been
at times sketchy and protracted. As stated above, risks and concerns remain as to whether an adequate
skills base exists or can be developed to deliver the maintenance and resurfacing program as envisaged by
the SNC. Completion of its ongoing reform is paramount for the future development and management of
the road network in line with the transport requirements for the economic development of the country.
Prefecturas also are weak in management capacity and lack accountability, as are their road agencies
(SEPCAMs). The project will help build up the management capacity of these institutions. With support
from other projects--mainly, the Institutional Reform Project and the Decentralization PSAC--a concerted
effort is being carried forward to address these institutional weaknesses.
The National Police is hampered by both technical and financial shortcomings in dealing with road
accidents, and its data collection of accidents is sporadic and unreliable. However, there is a sincere desire
to improve the accident information system and bringing about sustainable interventions. The project
supports this commitment and will help develop the information and institutional framework to start
addressing the current shortcomings.
4.2 Project management:
The institutional reform of the SNC should help ensure the proper management of the project.
Nevertheless, the management of the on-going road project (Abapo-Camiri) is being supported by a small
Project Coordination Unit (of two professionals) located at the SNC. This arrangement has proved useful
in the past and would be continued in the future. From IDA's side, the presence at the Bolivia Country
Office of supporting staff knowledgeable of institutional, financial management, procurement, and
engineering issues should help speed up response to project implementation difficulties and requests from
the executing institution.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A full procurement assessment of the SNC was undertaken during project preparation. No major
procurement issues have taken place at the SNC, aside from the slowness at some junctures in the
implementation of ongoing projects, particularly as a consequence of staff reshuffling. Nevertheless, the
procurement assessment vets the SNC as a high risk institution and delineates a plan of action to redress
current shortcomings that affect largely the length it takes to prepare procurement documents and reach bid
award and contract signature. The procurement assessment concluded with an action plan to enhance the
procurement function at the SNC. Among the key actions identified five stand out for their positive impact
in the overall management of the SNC and improvements in the coordination across the different units of
the institution, positively affecting the pace of project implementation, namely: (i) the reallocation and
reformulation of activities and responsibilities; (ii) the preparation of organizational manuals and
administrative procedures, and for project operations; (iii) intensive training in key activities of the
organization; (iv) development of information systems for the administration of contracts, and project
monitoring, control, and report generation; and (v) the establishment of technical and administrative
systems of control.
At the country wide level, procurement issues are being tackled as part of the study "Diagnosis of
Procurement Procedures in Bolivia and Action Plan for Improving Public Contracting" which is being
managed by the Country Office with support from, and the supervision of, the Office of the Regional
Procurement Adviser (LCOPR).
The components to be financed with resources from the NDF would be procured under NDF procurement
guidelines.
- 30 -



I Repablica de Bolivia y Banco Mundial "Diagn6stico de los Procedimientos de Adquisiciones del Paisy Plan de Acci6n para el Mejoramiento de la
Contrataci6n PuLblica," Abril 2000.
4.4 Financial management issues:
One of the negative spillovers of the drastic decentralization process that took place beginning in 1995 was
the deterioration of the financial management and internal control functions at the SNC. Specifically, since
1997, the SNC has presented serious difficulties in their external audits, though the audits for
IDA-financed projects have come out with an opinion acceptable to IDA. The external audit for 1998
concluded with a denial of opinion by the independent auditors given the limitations in the scope of the
audit. The new management team that took over at the end of 1999 quickly reacted to the conclusions of
that report and committed itself to adjustments to the internal control function. Another, permanent,
management team took over in September 2001 and has continued to strengthen the financial management
function. With support from Credit 2395-BO, that provided financing for technical assistance, the
institution has been steadily strengthening the financial management systems and capacity and the latest
external audit for 2000 provided an opinion, still with qualifications, but showing a substantial progress in
redressing the shortcomings identified in the external audits for 1998 and 1999.
In light of the weaknesses identified at the SNC in recent years, the Bank has undertaken continuous and
close monitoring with the support from the financial management specialist at the World Bank Country
Office in La Paz. Furthermore, as a requirement in the latest extension of the closing date for Credit
2395-BO (until June 30, 2001), the SNC has been submitting monthly reports to IDA on the progress in
enhancing the financial management functions. This continuous supervision has allowed to make an also
continuous assessment of the financial management capacity of the institution. As of end 2001, the SNC
had improved markedly its financial management and control capacity with the implementation of a
computer-based system--the SINCON--that allows to track expenditures and uses of funds on a monthly
basis. In a supervision by the FMS in November 2001, it was determined that through the SINCON system
the general ledger to end March 2001 contains all the transactions to that date and the balances are
supported by reconciliations to external evidence. It was also determined that the budget charges in the
budget module and the expenses in the accounting modules matched each other. As such, it was concluded
that the integrated financial management system, SINCON, is now operating in SNC and meets the Bank
minimum financial management requirements.
Although the SINCON has also been installed in the current Project Coordinating Unit (for the
Abapo-Camiri Highway Project), no data are input by this PCU in the system as SINCON only allows the
recording of transactions in local currency--Bolivianos--and the PCU keeps control of the project accounts
in US$. SINCON's chart of accounts allows the SNC to segregate and to accumulate transactions and
balances by subprojects financed by each credit agreement. This feature of the system allows the SNC to
prepare adequate reconciliations between SNC accounting records and the records kept by the PCU on a
monthly or quarterly basis allowing the preparation of reliable financial statements, both for general
purpose (entity's financial statements) and for fulfilling with Bank requirements (special purpose financial
statements).
- 31 -



Based on this progress, the assessment of the financial management capacity of the SNC can be rated as
medium risk, given that the improvements have taken place recently, but with prospects to be downgraded
to low risk in the short term if the progress is sustained and the comnmitment of the newly appointed
technical and financial managers to the enhancement of the financial management capacity is sustained. To
update the Bank's knowledge of the entity, a financial management assessment was performed at appraisal
and an action plan agreed with the SNC. The action plan is included in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will finance the rehabilitation and repaving of two existing segments of the national grid
(Calamnaca-San Pedro and Boyuibe-Yacuiba) and no new construction is planned along the existing
alignments. The project would thus not cause any direct negative impacts. There will be no population
displacement. The selected segments traverse well, long-ago consolidated areas and as such, no indirect
negative impacts on natural habitats or on remote areas are envisioned. Nevertheless, the SNC carried
screening/analysis of these two segments and these reports have been sent to the Infoshop. In addition,
Social Assessment reports on these segments was carried out (see below). Other environmental work
carried out during project preparation included: (i) the preparation of an environmental manual for road
contractors and site specific environmental requirements for the segments to be rehabilitated; (ii) designing
and adapting a rapid environmental screening methodology for feeder roads; (iii) preparing and
environmental manual for road maintenance by microenterprises; and (iv) designing an environmental
strengthening program for SNC. All of these documents have been sent to the Infoshop.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP included in the project includes: (i) enforcing environmental guidelines and site specific
requirements for contractors through environmental supervision efforts by engineering supervision and
audits carried out by SNC's environmental unit; (ii) applying rapid screening criteria and procedures to all
feeder roads as condition of eligibility for proposed roads; (iii) disseminating and training programs to
contractors and microentreprises for the environmental manual for road maintenance; and (iv)
implementing the environmental capacity strengthening program.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
The following reports have been prepared and have been sent to the Infoshop:
* Evaluacion del Impacto Social en las Comunidades Indigenas de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de
la Carretera Boyuibe-Yacuiba (con Plan de Desarrollo Indigena), preparado para el Servicio Nacional
de Caminos por Argentina Antunez R, Diciembre 2001, La Paz, Bolivia.
* Plan de Acci6n Social para el Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n y Mantenimiento de Carreteras, Enero 2002.
*   Evaluacion del Impacto Social de las Actividades de Rehabilitacion de la Carretera Boyuibe-Yacuiba,
preparado para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos por Magaly Barba de Matsuzaki, Noviembre 2000,
La Paz, Bolivia.
*   Evaluacion del Impacto Social de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera Calamarca-San
Pedro, preparado para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos por Ivonne Farah, et. al. Octubre 2000, La
Paz, Bolivia.
* Estudio de hmpacto Ambiental del Proyecto de Mantenimiento Periodico del Senkata-San Pedro,
Servicio Nacional de Caminos, Departamento de Medio Ambiente, Mayo de 1999, La Paz, Bolivia.
-32 -



*   Estudio de Impacto Ambiental por las Actividades de Mantenimiento Periodico del Tramo
Boyuibe-Yacuiba, Servicio Nacional de Caminos, Departamento de Medio Ambiente, Junio de 2000,
La Paz, Bolivia.
*   Estudio de Impacto Ambiental Puente Arce-Puente Sacramento, Anexo Complementario, preparado
por Consultoria y Planificaci6n, S.R.L., para la Prefectura del Departamento de Chuquisaca y el SNC,
2001, Sucre, Bolivia.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Conmnunities along the right-of-way of the two segments to be rehabilitated were consulted for the
preparation of the Social Assessment. Extensive meetings were held during project preparation and the
appraisal mission with participation of the SNC, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, and
representative of NGOs working with the communities in the proximity of the two road segments.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
References to the environmental manual and site-specific measures will be included in bidding documents
and contracts for rehabilitation works. Enforcement of these specifications will be included as part of the
supervision contracts. In addition, SNC's environmental unit will perform audits and spot checks during
construction. Carrying out the rapid environmental screening report will be a condition for feeder road
eligibility. Finally, SNC's environmental unit will disseminate road maintenance environmental manuals
and train contractors and supervisors on its use.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project will bring about social benefits to areas of influence of the roads to be rehabilitated and that
may be not well integrated to the mainstream economic activities of the country. During the project
preparation a specialized consultants were hired to carry out a Social Assessment of communities located in
the area of influence of the road segments to hear their voices and their main concerns about the
rehabilitation of those segments, following the methodology denominated "sustainable livelihoods
framework" (which centers around the analysis of five types of assets: human, natural, financial, social and
physical). In the segments to be rehabilitated there exists the consensus about the need to advance with the
rehabilitation of the roads and ample acceptance of the related works. They only expected coordination and
conununication with the contractors in order to avoid problems and solve those that may come up during
the construction period. The project will not entail any displacement of population.
In the segment Boyuibe-Yacuiba, two indigenous comnmunities--the Guarani and the Weenhayek--live
nearby. A Social Assessment focused on indigenous people was carried out along this segment, with
meetings held with 11 indigenous communities, some in areas far from the road. Then, a detailed study of
the communities in the area of influence was undertaken, carrying out further consultations with these
communities about the rehabilitation works. During these consultations, the communities expressed they
complete agreement with the rehabilitation works and requested the solution of some technical problems of
the current road.
As a result of the Social Assessment and the Indigenous Study, it was designed two plans for the
construction period: (i) Social Action Plan, and (ii) Indigenous Development Plan.
- 33 -



Social Action Plan. The main outcomes of this plan are: (i) to establish and maintain good relationships
between SNC, contractor, local authorities and communities, (iii) to prevent and control potential adverse
impacts, and (iii) to enhance the positive impacts. This Plan includes the following projects: (i) information
to local authorities, (ii) information to local communities, (iii) employment generation during construction
phase, (iv) environmental training and social sensitivity raising for work crews, (v) attention of potential
claims, and (vi) training for road safety. The target of this Plan will be indigenous and non-indigenous
communities.
Indigenous People Development Plan. It has two components: organizational strengthening and training
on rights and management of their territories.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During project preparation, as part of the definition of the strategies for the institutional reform of the
sector institutions and as part of the elaboration of the social assessments, several workshops were held
between January 2000 and December 2001, with wide participation of stakeholders, including
representatives from governmental entities, Prefecturas, chambers of construction and commerce, civic
committees ("Comites Civicos"), and construction and engineering consultant firms. The preparation of the
component of rehabilitation of priority segments of the national road network included consultations with
the communities along the roads (see 6.1).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See previous point.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
SNC has created a Socio-environmental Unit. This unit has been set at the same level within the
organizational structure of the SNC as those corresponding to the engineering, administrative and planning
units, with its head reporting directly to the Executive President of the SNC. According to the approved
organizational structure, the unit will be staffed with an experienced cadre of social and environmental
specialists. This Unit will contract the implementation of the Social Action Plan and the Indigenous
Development Plan and will be the responsible of its supervision.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Social Action Plan and the IPDP have specific indicators to assess the achievement of the outcomes
listed in 6.1.
- 34 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                          _ Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental management manuals have been developed and are an integral part of procurement and
contractual documents for the execution of rehabilitation and maintenance works. An IPDP and Social
Plan have been developed and agreed upon at appraisal and will be initiated by the SNC ahead of the
initiation of works. The necessary budget have been allocated to these activities and are part of the project
costs. Bank supervision will include the participation of the relevant specialists to ensure compliance with
the agreed plans and environmental regulations.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The key element to the sustainability of the Project--and of the sector in general--resides on the effective
revamping of the institutional framnework, including the five key aspects of (a) the definition of a sector
policy that transcends the periods of Governmental administration; (b) the establishment of organizational
structures and processes that promote transparency, coordination and efficiency; (c) the reform of the
hiring and retaining qualified personnel; (d) the need to secure resources sufficient to maintain the country's
road assets; and (e) the (re)creation of an informational base that can allow to make informed decisions and
carry out objective planning. The previous absence of actions on these key aspects has hampered the
development of the sector along with the transport needs of the economy. Furthermore, in the past several
years, road projects financed with loans and credits mainly from the IDA, the IDB and the CAF have taken
longer than expected to be executed (due to weaknesses in management) and presented premature
deterioration not too long after their completion (due, largely, to the lack of proper maintenance).
In a concerted effort, the international donors are currently supporting the efforts of the GOB to address
those two key aspects. They are reflected in the Strategic Development Plan (see Box 1 in Section 2 of
Part B, "Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy") which has been approved by the GOB and in the
advancement of the civil service reform of the SNC (under the auspices of the Institutional Reform
Project). The first steps in the implementation of that Strategic Plan have been sanctioned through a legal
framework that includes the approval of specific Laws and Supreme Decrees (Law 2064, and Supreme
Decrees 26336 and 26487). Keeping the validity of this legal framework and following through with the
implementation of that Strategic Plan will allow to consolidate the basis for the sustainability of the sector
(and hence of the extemally-funded projects), and from it an array of other related activities (such as
- 35 -



environmental management, road safety initiatives, expansion of the paved network, etc.) will be realized in
an effective manner.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Uneven commitment and protracted           M        (a) Addressing institutional issues, implementing
implementation of institutional reforms for         key reform steps, and approving legal provision
the sector                                          ahead of project approval, and (b) establishing
conditions and remedies in the Credit Agreement
to ensure the continuation of the reform and the
upholding of the principles of the legal
framework
Decreasing governmental interest in        S        Advancing key elements of the institutional
supporting the Road Maintenance                     reform and including focused technical
National Account, and in approving the              assistance activities to strengthen the
necessary resources for that Account, due           management capacity for the execution of
to political considerations                         ongoing projects and of improved maintenance,
towards changing image of the SNC as a way of
showing efficient use of resources and securing
public support to charges for the use of road
assets; inclusion of specific reporting
requirements and legal conditions and remedies
as part of credit agreement
Unfavorable natural conditions in the      N        Proper consideration of normal rainy season in
areas of the project                                engineering designs, implementation timetables,
and contractual arrangements for works
From Components to Outputs
Protracted release of counterpart funds    M        Pace of investments aligned with reasonable
hamper project execution and slow down              budgetary appropriations and financial and
institutional measures                              technical support incentives established with
Prefecturas (which are currently responsible for
providing counterpart funds)
Delays in awarding contracts due to        S        Advancing institutional reform ahead of project
non-transparent and inefficient                      effectiveness to count with qualified managers
management of tendering processes,                  and key technical professionals; coordination
increase project costs, damage image of             with the Institutional Reform Project (and
sector entities, and undermine confidence           through it, incorporation of the offices of the
from contractors and consultants on bid             Minister of the Presidency and of the Ministers
processes                                            of Finance and of Economic Development in the
institutional reform to ensure accountability and
objectivity); development, and agreement on its
implementation, of a procurement action plan;
close monitoring of tendering processes to
ensure compliance with World Bank guidelines;
and training and dissemination with the World
- 36 -



Bank Institute support.
Lack of interest in pursuing                M         Building incentives for institutional coordination
inter-institutional coordination initiatives          and performance into project design through
between the SNC and the Prefecturas, and              co-financing arrangements and technical
between the SNC and other sector entities             partnerships with the Prefecturas, and through
(e.g., the National Transit Police).                  technical support with other entities (e.g., the
National Transit Police).
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The institutional reform of the sector entities has been initiated and deepened by project appraisal. One
would expect that the Government would not later renegade away from the concept and strategy of that
reform and would continue to support it, particularly in the aspects related to the selection of managerial
and technical personnel and of the status of the SNC as an "autartic" entity (like an autonomous entity
under the overall realm of the Ministry of Economic Development). Nevertheless, there remain the
controversies that may arise from the establishment, funding and use of the CNCV. At project appraisal,
the Government expressed its full commitment to the concept and objectives of the CNCV and to its
priority as a mechanism for the sustainable maintenance of road assets. A proof of this commitment is the
issuance of Supreme Decree 26487 and the mere inclusion of this component under the project. At
negotiations, clear statements related to the contributions the Government, through users' charges or fiscal
resources, would have to channel into the CNCV, will be agreed upon, as well as in the manner
procurement and monitoring would be applied for the use of the CNCV's resources. The component related
to the CNCV is structured in a manner that the credit contributions fall (proportionally to the size of the
periodic maintenance program) every year, with the Government making up the difference to cover the
estimated needs for the timely maintenance of the road network. Controversies regarding this structure may
come up later in the project implementation period if general macroeconomic or fiscal conditions may tempt
the Government to reduce the contributions to the CNCV and redirect them to other uses. The specific
wording of the credit agreement attempts to enforce the compliance with the CNCV conditions and includes
specific statement regarding the remedies the IDA would put in place in case of non-compliance or in case
of changes or deletions to the legal framework established and approved at appraisal.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
In addition to the conditions for credit effectiveness set forth in the General Conditions, five other
conditions are set:
* The Borrower shall have approved the legal and procedural regulations for the establishment and
functioning of the Road Maintenance National Account (CNCV) in a manner acceptable to IDA.
* The Borrower shall have furnished to IDA evidence, satisfactory to IDA, about the progress in the
SNC Institutional Reform Plan, including the selection and appointment of all the managerial positions
and of at least one half of the technical positions.
- 37 -



* A Financial Management Reporting (FMR) system satisfactory to IDA shall have been established in
the SNC and become operational.
* The SNC shall have approved the Organizational.Manual for the SNC (Manual de Funciones) in a
manner acceptable to IDA.
* The SNC shall have approved the Project Operational Manual in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Reporting and Reviews
* The SNC shall prepare and furnish to IDA every six months a detailed progress report for monitoring
purposes, and within six months of the Credit closing date, an input to the Project Implementation
Completion Report.
* Not later than October 31 of each of the years of Project implementation, starting in 2002, the
Borrower shall prepare and review with IDA: (i) the SNC's annual road maintenance and resurfacing
program for the following calendar year; (ii) the corresponding plan of road users' charges or fiscal
resources to be deposited in the CNCV in the following calendar year in line with the financial plan
agreed upon at negotiations; and (iii) the road investment program for the following calendar year. The
annual road maintenance and resurfacing program shall include, inter alia: (i) the portion of the
national road network to be maintained through the execution of contracts with microenterprises; (ii)
the portion of the national road network to be maintained through the execution of contracts with other
types of maintenance contracts aside from microenterprises; and (iii) the expected productivity targets
for the aforementioned two portions of the national road network.
* Not later than March 31 of each of the years of Project implementation, starting in 2003, the Borrower
shall prepare and fumish to IDA, a report of such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably
request with respect to, inter alia: (i) the expenditures incurred in the maintenance of national roads
(routine and resurfacing) in the preceding year; (ii) the corresponding use and allocation of the CNCV
resources in that preceding year by type of maintenance contract and in respect of the portion of the
national road network maintained through the execution of contracts with microenterprises and other
types of maintenance contracts; (iii) the productivity targets of the portion of the national road network
maintained through either microenterprises or other types of maintenance contracts; (iv) the results of
SNC's rating of the condition of the trunk (national) roads; and (v) an independent opinion on said
rating. The SNC shall compile this information on an annual report on its operational and financial
performance, including the actions the SNC intends to take to redress the identified shortcomings. This
annual report shall be disseminated to the public immediately after its publication.
* Not later than March 31 and October 31 of each of the years of Project implementation, starting in
2003, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to IDA, a report of such scope and in such detail as IDA
may reasonably request, describing: (i) the progress in the execution of the components of the Project
during the preceding 12 months; (ii) the status of the use of credit resources by each component; (iii)
the results achieved under the project, on the basis of the Performance and Monitoring Indicators; and
(iv) the estimated timetable of disbursements for the following 12 months.
- 38 -



*   The annual review to be held by March 31, 2004 (the mid-terrn review), will focus, inter alia, on the
progress made by the Borrower in: (a) managing the maintenance of the national road network; (b)
implementing the rehabilitation and maintenance components of the project; and (c) carrying out the
program of institutional building of the SNC and of the SEPCAMs, and the road safety
sub-components of the project. The annual review will also encompass an assessment of the changes in
the stock and conditions of the national road assets. The Borrower will be represented at the mid-term
review meeting by representatives from the Ministry of Economic Development, the Vice-Ministry of
Public Investment and Extemal Financing (VIPFE), the VMT, the SNC and the eligible SEPCAMs.
The mid-term review shall also include, as agreed between the SNC and the IDA ahead of the date of
the mid-term review, the participation of other donors as well as stakeholders such as associations of
road users and other members of the civil society.
Financial
*   The Borrower shall open, and maintain thereafter until completion of the Project, a Fiscal Account,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, for the purpose of managing all funds required to make
payments in Bolivianos under contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
*   The Borrower will contract independent auditors to undertake an audit of the records, account and
financial statements of the Project and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal
year, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, and furnish to IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year certified copies of the financial statements, an opinion on such
statements, records and accounts, and the report of such audit by said auditors.
*   The Borrower shall allocate the necessary budgetary resources for carrying out the social and
indigenous people development plan under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
* Not later than December 31 of each of the years of Project implementation, starting in 2002, the
Borrower will contract extemal auditors with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to IDA
to carry out an extemal performance audit of the CNCV including the procurement and
implementation of IDA-financed contracts for resurfacing, and compliance with environmental
requirements, during the preceding fiscal year.
*   Retroactive financing, in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$5,000,000 equivalent, may be made in
respect of eligible project expenditures incurred after May 1, 2002.
Implementation
General Project Management:
*   SNC to continue the Project Coordinating Unit and designate within this unit a professional, with
qualifications, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to serve as liaison with the IDA
in the carrying out of the Project's institutional building and renewal program.
Functioning of the CNCV:
*   The proceeds of the CNCV to be utilized exclusively for routine maintenance and resurfacing contracts
(including engineering designs, civil works and supervision) on the national trunk network. No
proceeds from the fund can be used to pay for administrative expenses or any other recurrent costs.
- 39 -



However, for (calendar) year 2002, the CNCV may finance the annual administrative costs, up to the
amount established in the legal and procedural regulations of the CNCV, for the control of the toll
collections and the operation of truck axle-weight control stations.
* Government commitment to provide the budgetary resources to meet the requirements of SNC's routine
maintenance and resurfacing programs, in a timely manner.
* SNC to establish appropriate mechanisms for the supervision of the road maintenance activities and for
strengthening its financial management and accounting systems as well as the procurement process for
maintenance activities.
* SNC to strengthen the information system and the programming of road maintenance activities in order
to create a continuous and reliable source of information that would provide information on the
trade-off between certain levels of maintenance and the economic benefits to the country.
* Before committing funds for a resurfacing subproject, IDA would require the following: (a)
confirmation that the subproject is part of the resurfacing program agreed with IDA; (b) adequate
information and analysis carried out indicating the economic viability of the subproject; (c) the
subproject should neither require changes in alignment nor involve negative environmental
implications; and (d) the subproject should comply with procurement standards satisfactory to IDA.
* As stated above (under financial), the Borrower will undertake an external performance audit of the
CNCV.
Pilot ofRehabilitation of Feeder Roads:
* The Government , through SNC and each participating Prefectura, to make the necessary
arrangements so that the subprojects for rehabilitation of secondary roads are carried out with due
diligence and efficiency.
* SNC to assign two senior professionals to assist the participating SEPCAMs with the planning,
execution and evaluation of the rehabilitation of rehabilitation works of secondary roads and with the
related institutional improvements.
* The Govemment, through each participating Prefectura, to define and subsequently implement an
institutional action plan to improve the road management practices of the SEPCAMs by end of year
2006.
* Any subproject under the rehabilitation of secondary roads component should be evaluated and selected
following a methodology satisfactory to IDA, which would include an environmental assessment in all
cases warranted.
* All subprojects for the rehabilitation of secondary roads proposed to be partially financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be approved by IDA only if:
*   The Government, through SNC, presents evidence that the concerned SEPCAM has presented
a satisfactory rollover three-year road rehabilitation and maintenance program expressed in
physical and financial terms, with appropriate socio-economic justification of the priorities.
*   The concemed SEPCAM's capital and recurrent budget for the current and previous years and
-40 -



the projected budget for the following year are consistent with the above road rehabilitation
and maintenance program.
*   The candidate sub-projects include either the rehabilitation of road segments or construction of
bridges that would allow keeping those roads transitable all-year round, avoiding interruptions
to the traffic, and that contribute to enhance accessibility to and from main economic corridors.
* The cost per km does not exceed US$25,000.
* The sub-project complies with the requirements of SNC's environmental manual, and does not
imply impacts to the natural or social habitat or entail resettlement of population.
Road Safety Component:
* The Government, through the National Police, to make the necessary arrangements so that the Accident
Information System is carry out with diligence and efficiency, and the information is shared with other
stakeholders.
* Not later than June 30, 2002, the Government to appoint a road safety task group to study the different
alternatives and to recommend the most adequate institutional framework to manage the road safety
issues at a national level .
*   The road safety task group to submit its findings and recommendations before June 30,2003 and the
Government to decide on those recommendations not later than December 31, 2003.
Procurement
* The Government, through the SNC, to carry out the actions included in the Procurement Improvement
Action Plan.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[II 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Procurements documents for the rehabilitation works under component I are complete and the tender
process has been initiated. Procurement documents for the first-year periodic maintenance activities under
component 3 are under preparation. They are expected to be completed by credit effectiveness.
- 41 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Aurelio Menendez                 Danny M. Lei zi r
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director             Country ManagerlDirector
-42 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Key Performance        Data Colleetion Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                   : Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve transport         Freight transport tariffs per  Representative sample of data Macro-economic stability
inter-connections across  ton from La Paz to Oruro and to be collected through traffic
Bolivian regions, facilitating  from Boyuibe to Yacuiba  counting and surveys  Stability of social/poverty
their integration into the  reduced by 15% in constant                         reduction policies
country's economic and social values at project completion
activities                 from an average of US$36 at                         Continuity in fiscal policies
project start.
Passenger transport tariffs per
person from La Paz to Oruro
and from Santa Cruz to
Yacuiba reduced by 15% and
10% in constant values,
respectively, at project
completion from 15
Bolivianos and 120
Bolivianos, respectively, at
project start.
Number of bus trips per day  Statistics on passenger
increased by 16% between  transport collected through
Patacamaya and Caracollo  traffic counting
and between Villamontes and
Yacuiba by the end of the
third year of project
implementation and by 28%
by project end, from about
400 and 60 bus trips,
respectively, at project start.
- 43 -



Key Performance       Data Collecton Strategy
Hiearchy of Objectives          Indicators                                    Critical Assumptlons
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Improve transitability and  Number of freight transport  Statistics on freight transport Stability of complementary
accessibility through the  units (trucks) between   collected through traffic  policies for economic
rehabilitation of key segments Calamarca and Oruro and  counting             development
of the national and secondary  between Boyuibe and Yacuiba
road network and the      increased by 16% at third year
strengthening of the country's of project and by 28% by
capacity to manage road   project end, from about 450
assets                    and 300, respectively, at
project start.                                      Stability in gasoline and
diesel international prices
Percentage of the national  Data from the SNC on road  Sustained commitment from
road network in at least good  condition, and from  the Government in the
condition increased from 19% independent technical audit of implementation of
at project start to 30% at  the CNCV               institutional reform program,
project's mid-term review and                       including the establishment
to 40% at project completion.                       and functioning of the Road
Maintenance National
Account
Timely preparation and public Data from the SNC on road
dissemination of an annual  maintenance activities, and
report on operational and  from annual external
financial performance of the  operational performance audit
CNCV.                     of the CNCV
Network-based road        Annual Operative Plan
maintenance plans and     (POAs) of Prefecturas and
budgets at four participating  SEPCAMs
(Prefecturas') road agencies
(SEPCAMs) developed and
implemented (with indication
of maintenance activities,
costs and productivities).
One hundred percent of SNC's Reports related to the
managerial and technical staff implementation of the
positions selected and    Institutional Reform Project
appointed on the basis of  and SNC internal staffing
managerial and technical  data
merits and appropriate
budgeting of salaries by
project mid-term and through
project end
Legal framework as        Legal regulations and
established by Law 2064 and amendments
Supreme Decrees 26336
upheld through project end
-44-



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Priority sections of the  353 kilometers of the national Project progress documents  Sustained commitment and
national road network     network rehabilitation    and documents on final    effective implementation of
rehabilitated             according to technical    reception of works        institutional reforms for the
specifications and contractual                      sector
terms-of-reference
Eligible sections of the  200 kilometers of the     Project progress documents  Sustained governmental
secondary network         secondary network         and documents on final    interest in supporting the
rehabilitated             rehabilitation according to  reception of works     Road Maintenance National
technical specifications and                        Account, and in approving the
contractual terms-of-reference                      necessary resources for that
Account
Management capacity       90 percent rate of execution of Supervision reports and final Normal natural conditions in
strengthened in supervision,  projects planned (in terms of reception minutes for works,  the areas of the project
maintenance and road safety, budget and of numbers) under and independent operational
and improved              the Road Maintenance and  audit of the CNCV
inter-institutional       Resurfacing Program
coordination (with
Prefecturas)              Procedures and systems for  Progress reports on the
implementation of transparent implementation of the
and efficient procurement,  procurement action plan
contract, and financial
management implemented at
the SNC by project mid-term
and through project end
Quality control management  Progress reports on the
systems installed at the SNC  implementation of the
by project mid-term, allowing Procurement Plan for project
compliance with timetable of components
Procurement Plan
80% of counterpart        Ministry of Finance reports on
disbursements (from       execution of budget by the
Prefecturas) for          SNC and the relevant
donor-financed road projects  Prefecturas
made effective within three
months of request
Maintenance of road network  80% of periodic and routine  Reports of collection of tolls
carried out with appropriate  maintenance needs covered  and other charges
contractual arrangement with  with sustained resources
private contractors and   (from road users' charges)
microenteprises and properly
funded                    80% of routine maintenance  Project progress documents
on the national road network  and supervision reports
appropriately carried out with
microenterprises and/or
maintenance contracts, and
-45 -



achieving planned
maintenance targets by project
end
Accident Information System  Reports issued by Task Force
developed and operational in in charge of the Road Safety
the Departments of La Paz  Component and supervision
and Santa Cruz, with      reports
appropriate external linkages
to key stakeholders, by project
end
Options for institutional
framework for road safety
developed and decision on
preferred institutional
structure made, by project mid
term
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Rehabiliation of 353 kn of  US$36.39 million        Progress reports on project  Timely release of counterpart
key segments of the national                        implementation by component funds allow execution of
network                                                                       project works and institutional
measures according to
procurement plan
Rehabiliation of 200 km of  US$5.70 million         Disbursement statistics by  Timely awarding of contracts
eligible secondary roads                            project component         with transparent and efficient
feeding into the key segments                                                 management of tendering
of the national network                                                       processes, allowing projects to
be completed within estimated
costs, improving image of
sector entities, and increasing
confidence from contractors
and consultants on bid
processes
Establishment and         US$211.84 million                                   Sustained interest in pursuing
Implementation of Road                                                        inter-institutional
Maintenance National                                                          coordination initiatives
Account (CNCV)                                                                between the SNC and the
Prefecturas, and between the
SNC and other sector entities
(e.g., the National Transit
Police)
Road Safety Initiative    US$1.35 million
Pre-investment studies of key US$5.06 million
new road projects on national
-46 -



network
Supervision of rehabilitation  US$3.98 million
works on the national and
secondaiy networks
Superivision of routine and  US$15.55 million
periodic maintenance
activities (under CNCV)
Community relations and  US$0.57 million
indigenous development plans
Performance audits, impact  US$1.74 million
evaluation, and coordinating
unit
Institutional strengthening for US$0.65 million
the consolidation of the
reform of the National Road
Agency
Institutional strengthening of US$0.64 million
participating Prefectural Road
Agencies
Institutional strengthening of US$0.12 million
the Vice Ministry of
Transport
Auscultation equipment and  US$0.18 million
information systems
technology
Training                 US$0.23 million
-47 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$36.39 million
Rehabilitation of priority segments of the national road network This component entails carrying out
rehabilitation works consisting of reinforcing the pavement structures of (a) about 165 km of the
Calamarca-San Pedro section on national Route 1, on the road from La Paz to Oruro, and (b) about 188
km of the Boyuibe-Yacuiba section on national Route 9, providing continuity to the road Abap6-Camiri
(whose reconstruction is being undertaken with support from Credit 3235-BO).
The identified roads represent key segments of the national network that, as a consequence of their
substantial deterioration, require immediate rehabilitation. The last rehabilitation of these roads took
place about 10 years ago, and the substantial traffic--particularly of heavy trucks and buses--have
produced signs of pavement distress, requiring urgent rehabilitation to prevent further deterioration. The
SNC has undertaken an in-depth analysis of rehabilitation alternatives (using the Bank-sponsored
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model or HDM) and selected the alternative that would
report the largest economic benefits. The priority of these segments has been confirmed and contrasted
against the results of the Transport Master Plan, completed in November 2000.
The works to be undertaken in each of the segments can be summarized as follows:
*   The Calamarca-San Pedro road segment is presently an asphalt-concrete paved road with a width of 7
meters and gravel-treatment shoulders of I meter each. The road presents varying degrees of distress
that require corrective rehabilitation or preventive maintenance to restore the riding quality and
structural integrity of the pavement and reduce excessive maintenance costs. The works consist of
repairing all damaged areas on the existing roadway and shoulders, resurfacing the existing roadway
with a 5-cm flexible pavement and of the existing shoulders with asphalt concrete of a thickness
varying from 2 to 5 cm, reconstruction of pavement structure and undertaking deep lift where
structural failure may exist, repairing the drainage systems, and installing traffic markers and signals.
* The Boyuibe-Yacuiba road is currently an asphalt-treated base road with a width of 7.3 meters and
gravel-treatment shoulders of 1.8 meters. The segment presents severe structural sections and
cracking, with negative effects on the riding quality along the road. The rehabilitation activities to be
undertaken under the project are of a similar nature as those mentioned for the Calamarca-San Pedro
segment.
The rehabilitation works will take place within the existing right of way and will not require any
resettlement of population. An extensive social and environmental analysis (Annex 14) has provided the
information to (a) adjust the design of the works to maximize the benefits to the population in the areas of
influence of the road segments to be rehabilitated; and (b) minimize any possible minor environmental
impacts to the natural habitat. Regarding the latter, an environmental manual is integral part of the
rehabilitation contracts and the related supervision.
-48-



Project Component 2 - US$5.70 million
Pilot of rehabilitation of secondary (departmental) roads. In order to increase the benefits from the
rehabilitation of segments of the primary network, facilitate transport from low-income communities, and
encourage adequate road management practices at the Prefecturas, this component seeks to rehabilitate
around 200 km of secondary roads. This pilot would focus on the Departments of La Paz, Oruro,
Chuquisaca y Tarija, that are the four departments the segments under component 1 transverse. The
Prefecturas of these departments would compete for the available funds on the basis of readiness of
candidate subprojects that comply with eligibility criteria. These criteria would include: (a) subprojects
involve road segments linking to main economic corridors and contribute to facilitating access to and from
those corridors; (b) specific requirements to be completed by the relevant Prefectura (a rollover three year
road rehabilitation and maintenance program, a capital and recurrent budget); (c) a maximum rehabilitation
cost per km (of US$25,000); (d) environmental requirements; and (e) other socio-economic criteria. The
rehabilitation works would take place within the rights-of-way of the existing secondary roads and will not
require any resettlement of population. The regulations set for in the SNC's environmental manual for road
works would be an integral part of the rehabilitation contracts and the related supervision. In addition to
the technical requirements for the individual subprojects, the interested SEPCAMs would have to comply,
or have a program to comply, with institutional improvement priorities that guarantee reliable systems for
road condition and traffic inventories, accounting, contracting works, and road maintenance.
To implement this component, the Government through SNC and each participating Prefectura would
make the necessary arrangements so that the subprojects are carried out with due diligence and efficiency.
More specifically, (i) SNC would assign two senior professionals to assist the participating SEPCAMs
with the planning, execution and evaluation of the rehabilitation works on secondary roads and with the
related institutional improvements, and (ii) the SEPCAMs would commit to the definition and subsequent
implementation of an institutional action plan to improve their road management practices by end of year
2006. SNC will commit itself to provide the necessary technical assistance and coordination to the
SEPCAMs. These agreements would be confirmed at negotiations. Details of this component are further
described in Annex 12.
Project Component 3 - US$ 211.82 million
Road Maintenance National Account (CNCV) and Resurfacing Program. The Government has shown
its commitment to the establishment of a sustained source of revenues to timely attend the maintenance
needs of the network. As current country conditions do not allow increasing user fees drastically, a process
of building up the constituencies and resources is necessary. To start the process the Government has
established a Road Maintenance National Account (CNCV) and has requested IDA to initially fund the
CNCV portion allocated to resurfacing/strengthening works. Under the project, IDA would participate in
the financing of the resurfacing works of about 600 km of roads per year during five years. The estimated
cost of these works is about US$108 million and the amount of IDA participation would be US$34.3
million, which would be disbursed, on a decreasing basis (in percentage terms, compared to the size of the
resurfacing program). In addition the Project includes the financing of annual audits of the CNCV and
independent annual ratings of the primary roads condition, under its technical assistance component.
The use of the resources of the CNCV are delineated in a manual of procedures (to be legally approved at
the ministerial level) that include: (i) the description of the routine and periodic maintenance activities that
are eligible for financing with the resources from the CNCV; (ii) the description of any other possible
- 49 -



eligible activities (such as studies that may need to be contracted out to enhance and monitor the use of the
CNCV resources); (iii) the reporting and audit requirements for the use of the CNCV proceeds; and (iv)
overall procurement and contractual regulations. The completion and approval of this manual in a manner
satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The contracts to be financed partially with
the proceeds from the credit will follow IDA procurement rules and environmental regulations.
The 2002-2006 program of activities of SNC's Maintenance Unit, including the routine maintenance and
resurfacing program to be financed out of the CNCV, was evaluated during project appraisal. The
complete program of the Maintenance Unit for the period 2002-2006 is summarized in the table below.
2002-2006 Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program for the National Network
USS million
*        -. .2002  2003m  2004 .  2 .  20066
Routine maintenance           20.6   24.2   21.8   19.7   20.0   106.3
Periodic maintemance (resurfacing)  11.7  16.0  27.6  30.7  22.0  107.9
Sub-total (Maintenance, CNCV)  32.3  40.2  49.4  50.4  42.0  214.2
Ernerg-acy and spot improvements  9.0                             9.0
Rehabilitation                 8.0   17.6   19.4    5.0           50.0
Special projects               5.5                                5.5
Comprehensive maintenance (Abapo-Camiri)  4.6  2.8  2.8  2.1     12.4
Total  59.4   60.6   71.6   57.4    42.0  291.1
The 2002-2006 program should be considered a tentative program because of the uncertainty about the
condition and needs of the national road network. The increased funding for highway maintenance resulting
from the creation of the CNCV is to be welcomed, particularly in view of the long-term commitments to
sustained investment on maintenance activities. It will result in significant improvements to the condition of
the fundamental road network so long as the funding earmarked for maintenance is actually spend on
maintenance. Under the project, the Government would commit itself to maintain the level of budgetary
resources to meet the requirements of the routine maintenance and resurfacing program in a timely manner,
and to use CNCV proceeds exclusively for routine maintenance and resurfacing works. Certain actions,
related to the operation of the CNCV, such as its annual auditing and annual reviews with IDA of its
requirements were reviewed and agreed upon during project appraisal. Furthermore, SNC would undertake
commitments, with support from the institutional building component of the Project, to strengthening its
institutional capabilities.
The level of routine maintenance and resurfacing expenditure compared with the audited rating of the
condition of the roads will be used to monitor the effectiveness of the program financed by the CNCV.
More details on the 2002-2006 routine maintenance and resurfacing program, the functioning of CNCV
and the selection criteria for the eligibility of subprojects to be financed by IDA are presented in Annex 11.
Project Component 4 - US$28.25 million
Technical assistance. This component includes the following sub-components:
(a) Road safety. This sub-component supports building the institutional framework and capacity to
address some of the most pressing needs in the road safety sector. Available statistics show that about
1000 persons are killed in road accidents in Bolivia and that about 70 % of the accidents take place in the
departments of La Paz and Santa Cruz. The project includes the development of: (i) an institutional
framework that would permit the proper management of road safety issues. A task group, comprising the
most concemed stake holders, would be formed under the coordination of SNC, to study the different
alternatives and to recommend the most adequate institutional framework to manage the road safety issues
at national level. The Government would decide on these recormmendations before the end of year 2003;
(ii) an accident information system for the departments of La Paz and Santa Cruz as a first step to
- 50 -



develop a national system. As commitment of the police is crucial for an accident information system, the
National Police will be responsible for implementation of this sub-component; (iii) a systematic auditing
of new or existing roads for the specific purpose of accident prevention, including the preparation of a
road auditing manual and the auditing of about 1000 km of roads. SNC would be responsible for the
implementation of this part of the project sub-component. Each of the above parts of the sub-component
includes training and technical assistance and is further develop in Annex 13.
(b) Pre-investment studies. This component would support the preparation of engineering studies for new
road projects within the context of the results of the Transport Master Plan and the economic development
strategy of the GOB. The current lack of completed new projects for the sector makes imperative the
preparation of these pre-investment studies to continue the support of the rehabilitation and improvement
of the road infrastructure in Bolivia. All these studies will include the environmental impact and social
assessments necessary to comply with all the IDA environmental and social safeguards related to the
design of this type of projects. Terms of reference for these studies will be therefore approved by the IDA
to check compliance with those safeguards.
(c) Supervision of rehabilitation works and maintenance activities. This component consists of the
consultant services for the supervision of the first two components, the rehabilitation works on the key
priority links of the national network and on the secondary roads of the pilot to be undertaken with the
SEPCAMs, and of the maintenance activities to be financed with the resources of the CNCV. The
estimated cost of this component is equal to about 10% of the rehabilitation costs and about 7.5% of the
maintenance costs.
(d) Community relations and indigenous peoples development plans. This component consists of the
services to be provided to ensure that the rehabilitation works on the national network are carried out with
due consideration to the living conditions and cultures of the populations living in the area of influence of
the roads, in order to minimize and mitigate any possible adverse impacts to the social habitats that may
arise from the rehabilitation of the two key segments of the national network. The contents of the IPDP
and Social Plans were agreed upon at appraisal. The financing of the costs related to these plans will be
assumed by the Borrower. Further details on the contents of these plans are included in Annex 14.
(e) Technical andfinancial audits. This component would finance the hiring of specialized consultants to
undertake technical audits of the projects components, specifically those related to the use of the CNCV
resources and the pilot program of rehabilitation of secondary roads. It will also include support to
undertaking the financial audits of the institution. This component will also finance the hiring of
consultants to carry out an impact analysis of the implementation of the project. This will be undertaken
at a time sufficiently after the completion of the rehabilitation works in order to allow most impacts to
materialize.
Project Component 5 - USS1.82 million
Road sector management and institutional building. During project preparation, discussions and
seminars were held to identify the key institutional development activities that would be financed under the
project. The identification of these activities was undertaken with due consideration to those already
being undertaken under other World Bank projects and those of the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) and the Andean Development Corporation (CAF). Nevertheless, given the ongoing institutional
restructuring and reform process of the SNC, one should expect adjustments to the scope of the activities
as that project is implemented and the reform process advances.
- 51 -



The component includes key gaps that need to be filled in order to revamp the institutional framework for
the road sector and to facilitate the implementation of the project. The activities are directly related to the
various components of the projects and the strategy for the transformation of the SNC in improving its
efficiency in managing the Bolivian road assets and confronting the opportunities for corruption. The
activities focus on three key areas, each with technical assistance, training, and acquisition of
computer-based equipment and software. The three key areas are: (a) strengthening the maintenance
programming capacity at the SNC and the Prefecturas; (b) building up the procurement and contracting
systems for the efficient and transparent management of all type of road works; and (c) strengthening of
the information base for the analysis and definition of maintenance programs. Additional resources are
allocated to supporting the building up of the capacities of the newly-created socio-environmental unit.
Further details on these activities follow.
Maintenance programming. Within this component, support will be provided to restore the capacity of
the SNC in planning and programming the maintenance of the national road network and, in general, of
investments in roads, in coordination with the Office of the Transport Master Plan at the VMT. In this
respect, this component includes training and application of the HDM-4 Model and would complement to
the extent necessary the activities to be financed under IDB's Ventilla-Tarapaya Project related to the
recollection of information on road conditions and on traffic characteristics that would allow the effective
application of the HDM-4 Model. Furthermore, the component includes support to the strengthening of
management information systems that can take advantage of the outputs of the HDM-4 for the purpose of
supporting decisions not only at the level of the Executive President of the SNC but also of the Ministries
of Finance and Economic Development and of the Office of the VMT. The results of the HDM4 Model
constitute also inputs to the definition of the resources required for the CNCV.
Procurement and contract management. The procurement assessment of the execution entity revealed
several areas that required strengthening in order for that entity to carry out its mandate in an efficient and
transparent manner. Key among them is the development of a comprehensive procurement and contract
management information system. The project would support the development of this system including
training activities and equipment acquisition. This is an element in the broader strategy of increasing the
transparency of procurement and the efficiency of execution and management of contracts. The
Institutional Reform Project (Credit 3245-BO) has also allocated funds to support other initiatives in this
respect (such as, the drafting of an Code of Ethics or the development of an archiving system).
Contract maintenance. The experience of the contract maintenance program (for which an initial pilot
was financed with resources Credit 2395-BO, Second Road Maintenance Project) has shown deficiencies
in the management of maintenance activities (see Annex 11 for a more extensive treatment of this topic).
It has become important to re-assess the maintenance mechanisms and explore alternative options from
micro-enterprises to concessions. The SNC must develop the capability for an integral management of
road assets and for vetting the adequacy of the diverse maintenance strategies and mechanisms, and
extend this knowledge to the Prefectura's SEPCAMs. This sub-component would include support to: (a)
the analysis of the current system of contract maintenance by unit prices and development of improved
approaches to it, including the possibilities of incorporating modifications towards moving into a system
of contract maintenance by performance; (b) the establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation
of the various maintenance strategies; and (c) the strengthening of the coordination between the SNC and
the VMT in the overall planning of road investments and the definition of the program of road concessions
(responsibility that is currently under the realm of the Office of Concessions of the VMT with limited
coordination with SNC's own programming of maintenance tasks and lack of an integral perspective of the
management of the road network).
- 52 -



Road users' charges policy. Though during project preparation, studies were advanced regarding the
identification of efficient road users' charges and the possibilities of allocating them to the sustainable and
sufficient financing of the maintenance of the road network (with the purpose of defining the needs and
the structure of the CNCV), it will continue to be necessary to strengthen the capacity of the SNC and of
the Office of the VMT in evaluating the financing needs of the sector to program adequately the routine
and periodic maintenance of the road network. This sub-component will complement the activities listed
above under the heading "strengthening of the planning and managerial capacity." This sub-component
will also include support to the development of procedures for the proper accountability of the use of
resources from the CNCV and, subsequently, to the evaluation of the achievement of targets in improving
road conditions and in executing the annual maintenance budget.
The following table summarizes the sub-components of the institutional building components and their
estimated cost, with a tentative allocation of the financing between IDA, NDF and counterpart resources.
Mtmtized Ust of InstItutional Buliding Sub-Components
(US$, without contingencies)
Technical                                 Distribution of financing
Total    Assistance   Training  Equipment       IDA          NDF     Counterpart
Swlaio Nacinat de Cari       (SNC.
Support on Socdo-Enmironmental Issues
Technical Assistance on Social Management Issues                          76,000     76,000                               60,800                  15,200
Training                                                                 28,000                 28,000                    22,400                   5,600
Publicabons and disseminaton                                             20,000      20,000                                           20,000
Subtotal     124.0DO     96.00)0    28.000         .          83.200      20.000      20.8000
Support on Planning and Programming
Auscultabon Equipment                                                    95,000                             95,000                     95,000        -
Information Systems Equipment                                            30,000                             30,000        24,000                   6,000
Training                                                                  35,000                 35,000                   28,000                   7,000
Technical Assistance on Maintenance Programming                          80.000      80,000                                           80,000         -
Technical Assistance on HDM-4                                             70,000     70,000                               56,000                  14,000
Subftotl     310.000    1500000     35.000     125,000       108.000      176.000     27.000
Support on Maintenance Practices
Analysis of Maintenance Contracts                                         75,000     75,000                               60,000                  15,000
Development of Altemative Maint. Contracing Approaches                   90,000      90,000                               72,000                  18,000
Training                                                                  35,750                35,750                    28,600                   7,150
Subtoto      200.700    165.000     35.750         .         160.000         -        40,150
Support on Financial-Administrative Management
Tech. Assist. on Procurement and Contract Monitoring Informaton System   150,000    150,000                              120,000                  30,000
Information Systems Equipment and Software                               50,000                             50,000                    50,000
Training                                                                  30,000                 30,000                   24,000                   6,000
Other Technical Support to Audits and Internal Control                    50,000     50,000                               40,000                  10,000
5ubtd       I 280,000   200.000      30.000     so.x0        164000         000so     46000
TotalSNC        I     o.1!5 0,51(,30D0  -      *i2ilh0 .: 175,9D0 0                      _
Sevidos Prabsa w     fC Camwnos (SEPCAMeJ
Support to Maintenance Planning and Programming
Technical Assistance                                                    387,500     387,500                              182.000      160,000     45,500
Training                                                                 30.000                 30,000                    24,000 .                 6,000
Subtotl      417,500    3s7,s00      30.000                  206,000      160,000     51,000
Support to Procurement and Contract Management
Technical Assistance                                                    220,000     220,000                               98,400       97,000     24,600
Training                                                                  30,000                 30,000                   24,000                   6,000
Subtota      2000       2200         300122.400                            87.00      2.0
Total SEPCAMs fl
tvlo-#*Aty of T-mzoatt(V   T)
Suppon to Ro,a Sectry Pu,I  E ernnirg I T Co,s users Bha;gr s)
Technical Assistance                                                     120,000    120,000                               56,000       50,000     14,000
Training                                                                 30,000                  30.000                   24,000                   6,000
Subtotal     150000D    120000       300                      000          0002000 s
Total VMT   1     i     _
rbawTotal                             -                 -              1,?73a2,0  1.3NAW,          21I#475M 53  -- 176t
-53 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Projct Cost By Component                 US Smillion  US SmHilon    US $million
Rehabilitation works on key segments of the national network  13.15    19.72        32.87
Pilot program of rehabilitation of secondary roads         3.00         2.00         5.00
Road maintenance national account and resurfacing program  138.71      59.66       198.37
Technical assistance                                      18.21         8.34        26.55
Institutional strengthening                                0.66         1.08         1.74
Total Baseline Cost                                      173.73        90.80       264.53
Physical Contingencies                                    5.28         2.78         8.06
Price Contingencies                                       7.49         3.92        11.41
Total Project Costs             186.50        97.50        284.00
Total Financing Required             186.50        97.50        284.00
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By CaWory                  US $million  US $mliion    US $million
Goods                                                       0.06          0.13          0.19
Works                                                     166.53         87.40        253.93
Services                                                   19.84          9.81         29.65
Training                                                    0.07          0.16          0.23
Total Project Costs     186.50         97.50       284.00
Total Financing Required     186.50         97.50       284.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 12.19 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 271.81 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 28.33%
of total project cost net of taxea.
- 54 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Introduction
An economic analysis of the investment component of the project was undertaken as part of project
preparation. The investment component includes two major projects: the rehabilitation of the
Calamarca-San Pedro and the Boyuibe-Yacuiba road segments. For component 2, involving the
rehabilitation of secondary roads, Annex 12 describes the eligibility criteria that would need to be followed
by the participating SEPCAMs for the selection of those investments. Component 3 involves the financing
of the routine and periodic maintenance of the national network with the resources from the Road
Maintenance National Account (CNCV), following the maintenance program described in Annex 13. The
routine and periodic maintenance activities designed for the first year of the project yield rates of return
well above 50%. Future maintenance activities with resources from the CNCV will be subject to their
analysis as part of the development of a programming approach with the use of the Bank-sponsored
HDM-IV model.
The table below summarizes the results of the analysis of the rehabilitation component. The present value
of the economic and financial benefits have been calculated using a 12% discount rate.
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows   I                 Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis1
Analysis                             Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:                   45.16             60.99            15.83
US$ million
(Incremental values compared
to the base altrnative)
Costs:                      23.40             27.51             4.11
US$ million
(Incremental values)
Net Benefits:               21.76             33.48            11.72
US$ million
IRR:                        27.0%            31.0%
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The proposed project components of rehabilitation and maintenance would reduce road-user transport costs
by (a) lowering vehicle operating, accident and travel time costs, (b) removing physical constraints to road
transport of goods and people within Bolivia and from Bolivia to the neighboring countries of Argentina
and Chile, and (c) allowing the provision of more reliable and safer transport services.
- 55 -



The project represents a key element of the 2002-2006 maintenance and rehabilitation program of the SNC
(see Annex 11). With local (road users' charges) and external financing (IDB, CAF, IDA, and
FONPLATA), the program has a total budget of about US$290 million to finance rehabilitation works and
periodic and routine maintenance activities. An analysis of the current condition of the network, based on a
series of service indicators, shows that about 22 percent of the national network is in at least good
condition. If the program is not implemented, the network condition will deteriorate, affecting the transport
connections within Bolivia and its export channels to Argentina and Chile. With the implementation of the
proposed project and with it the rehabilitation and maintenance program, it is expected that the condition of
the network will improve, reaching a percentage of 47% by project's end of roads in at least good condition.
More specifically, the two main sub-projects of the rehabilitation component will bring benefits to the
population living along the roads' areas of influence, as follows:
*   Calamarca-San Pedro Road. This segment crosses over the Altiplano for an extension of 175
kilometers, on the main road from La Paz to Oruro, and from this town, southward, to Potosi and
Sucre and, eastward, to Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. The segment connects the national network of
the Altiplano, through the perpendicular Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado Road, to the Chilean border.
The segment therefore is a key link within the road network of Bolivia, facilitating the long-haul
transport of export products with their port of exit at the Chilean port of Arica. It was one of the first
paved roads of the country. The population in the area of influence--of about 183,000 people--consists
mostly of rural villagers scattered over the Altiplano, mostly dedicated to agricultural production of
traditional products, such as potatoes and quinua. The road has become an important economic link
facilitating commerce and access to services.
*   Boyuibe-Yacuiba Road. This road has an extension of 180 kilometers, crossing provinces of the
Departments of Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca and Santa Cruz. It is the single road that communicates the
westermost section of the last two departmnents to the Department of Santa Cruz and of all them to the
border with Argentina. The road is a continuation of the Abapo-Camiri road, currently being
rehabilitated with support from the IDA. The population in the area of influence of the road amounts
to around 220,000 people. Economic activity takes place around livestock production and related
activity, agricultural production of com, soy beans, and other cereals, and fishing along the Pilcomayo
river (that traverses the road at Villa Montes). The latter represents an important production as its
production represents about 48% of the national consumption of fish (according to figures of 1995).
Improvements in transport conditions would spur the development of these activities, favoring
economic activities that benefit the indigenous and poor population of the area and improving their
living conditions. This perception was expressed through the social evaluation of the project. Besides
the facilitation of economic development around its area of influence, the improvement of the road
would also reduce costs for the long-haul of products from the Santa Cruz and Chapare Regions.
Those both areas have crops--like pineapple, strawberry and bananas--whose production would
increase were transport costs reduced (helping, subsequently, with the development of alterative
crops).
In both cases, the improvement of the road conditions-along with the improvements currently being
implemented under other projects, such as the Abapo-Camiri Highway Project--would facilitate the
development of productive activities in the areas of influence of the segments to be rehabilitated, benefiting
the rural population. The rehabilitation works would also facilitate the overall transport of export products
from other regions in the country. As such the rehabilitation works would generate benefits for the country
- 56 -



as a whole.
Main Assumptions:
The economic analysis of the rehabilitation component was carried out with the use of the Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III), which simulates the deterioration of the road on the basis of
existing conditions, the climate, and the traffic on the road, and measures the incremental benefits to the
road users from a base do-nothing alternative. The analysis encompassed the simulation of different
alternatives for each road link in order to ascertain the optimum level of investment considering a 10-year
horizon.
The SNC estimated the rehabilitation and maintenance costs in financial and economic terms (net of taxes).
Economic costs of the rehabilitation and maintenance activities are estimated to be 85% of the financial
costs. The SNC also defined representative vehicle fleet characteristics and road user unit costs for six
vehicle classes. The vehicle and user costs were translated to economic costs using an average conversion
factor of 71% for the vehicle and tire prices (to account for taxes and import duties), of 87% for labor and
driving crew costs, and of 84% for fuel and lubricants costs (to account for taxes). The value of time was
estimated considering that average hourly income is US$1.59 for car passengers and US$0.70 for bus
passengers, and assuming that 85% of the passengers are on work-related trips and that the value of leisure
time is 25% of the hourly income. With these assumptions, the tables below summarize the key inputs to
the HDM-III model.
Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Economic Unit Costs
-  -      - .           -                 . - Medium   Heavy  Arzculate
Car    Pick-up.   Bus     Truck    Truck    Truck
Gross vehicle weight (tons)     1.5     2.8     17.0     15.5     19.7     42.7
Standard axle load factor      -        -        3.9      2.7      4 6      5.3
Number of axles                  2        2        2        2       2         5
Numberoftires                    4        4        6       6        6        18
Number of passengers             3        3       48      -        -        -
Service life (years)            10       10       10        7        7        8
Hours driven per year          500      750    1,000    1,200    1,280    1,280
Km driven per year          30,000   45,000   55,000   60,000   64,000   64,000
lnterst rate (%)                 12       12      12       12       12       12
Vehicle prices (US$)         14,135  21,079   107,683  44,924   83,862  111,182
Tire price (US$)               30.7    88.9    223.8    193.2    223.8    223.8
Maintenance labor (US$Ihour)  2.05     2.05     2.05     2.05     2.05     2.05
Crew time (US$/hour)           -                2.00     1.41     1.54     1.86
Passenger time (US$/hour)      1.45    1.45     0.64      -        -        -
Fuel costs (US$/liter)        0.37     0.36     0.36     0.36     0.36     0.36
Lubricants costs (US$1/iter)   1.70    1.70     1.70     1.70     1.70     1.70
Unit costs of main rehabilitation operations
:- ..    Frinaial- Economic
Ped made                  Unl        Cosgs    Costs
Calamarca-San Pedro
Patching              US$/m2        12.25    10.41
Resealing             US$/m2         2.38     2.02
Overlay (5 cm)        US$/m2         7.15     6.08
Routine maintenance  US$ikm/year  2,300.00  1,955.00
(Re)construction     US$ 000/km    104.30    88 70
Boyuibe-Yacuiba
Patching              US$/m2         5.66     4.81
Resealing             US$/m2         3.12     2.65
Overlay (5 cm)        US$/m2        13.01    11.06
Routine maintenance  US$/km/year  1,600.00  1,360.00
(Re)construction     US$ 000/km     98.30    83.60
- 57 -



In both cases, the rate of growth of the vehicular traffic was estimated based on past trends and other
indicators such as the growth of the number of vehicles, the increase in gasoline consumption and the
growth of population. Conservatively, it was estimated that traffic would grow at a rate of 3.5% for light
vehicles and buses and of 4% for trucks until the horizon year of the project. The average traffic values
and the estimated annual increase, by vehicle type, are shown in the next table.
Aver daily traffic and annual increas
Calamarca-San Pedro
Average daily traffic       223     124     447      112     162      174
Annual increase (%)         3.5%    3.5%    3.5%     4.0%    4.0%     4.0%
Boyuibe-Yacuiba
Average daily traffic       239      79      131      98      88       95
Annual increase (%)         3.5%    3.5%    3.5%     4.0%    4.0%     4.0%
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The analysis of the sensitivity of the results show that both projects will continue to show rates of return
above the customary cutoff of 12% in the event of a 20% increase in the investment costs, a 20% decrease
in the benefits or a combination of the two. In these latter event, the rate of return results to be 16.9%.
The following table summarizes the results of the sensitivity analysis:
Sensivity analysis
Increase in costs
0%                    20%
NPV (USS milion)  ERR (%) | NPV (USS milion) ERR (%)R
Decrease       0%         21.76    27.0%1       17.08    22.2%
in benefits  -20%         12.73    21.2%1        8.05    16.9%
Switching values were calculated for the increase in costs or the reduction in benefits. In the case of the
Calamarca-San Pedro sub-project, costs would have to increase by more than 72% or benefits reduced by
more than 42% for the sub-project to yield a rate of return lower than 12%. In the case of the
Boyuibe-Yacuiba sub-project, costs would have to increase more than 1.5 times or benefits reduce by more
than 61% for the project to become not economically feasible.
In all, these results show the robustness of the economic worth of the rehabilitation investments.
-58-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Years Ending
June 30
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD          .
| Year2 I     Year2            3     Year 4   | Year 5      Year 6      Year7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             19.2        36.4       52.8        43.7       29.4         0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              19.1        22.8        21.1        19.5       20.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs            38.3        59.2       73.9        63.2       49.4         0.0        0.0
Total Financing                38.3        59.2        73.9       63.2        49.4        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    14.2        23.5        23.5        14.1        1.7        0.0        0.0
Government                   8.2        20.3        26.0        14.9        9.3        0.0        0.0
Central                   8.2       20.3        26.0        14.9        9.3        0.0        0.0
Provincial                0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                0.3         1.7         2.2         1.7        1.2        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     15.7        13.7        22.2       32.5        37.2        0.0        0.0
Others                       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       38.4        59.2        73.9       63.2        49.4       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
User Fees/Beneficiaries represent the contributions from road users in the form of tolls and vehicle-fuel tariffs to the
Road Maintenance National Account (CNCV) as estimated on the basis of (a) Supreme Decree 26487 of January 23,
2002, and (b) Action Plan for the Financing of Road Maintenance, issued by the SNC on January 31, 2002.
Investment and recurrent cost include, as applicable, physical contingencies (5.9% of physical components) and price
contingencies (3.5% of cost estimates in US$). These contingencies are not applied to the routine maintenance
sub-component of Component 3, as this would be ajusted in its scope to the amount of resources available. Investment
costs apply to components 1, 2, 4 and 5, and to the resurfacing program (periodic maintenance) of Component 3.
- 59 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Procurement
All IDA-financed procurement under the project would follow the Bank's guidelines ("Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" of January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999; and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions
stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
The sub-components to be financed with resources from the NDF would be procured following NDF
procurement rules. These components involve consultant services for the development of the road safety
initiative and the preinvestment studies (under Component 4) and institutional building to the SNC, the
SEPCAMs and the VMT, and the acquisition of auscultation and information systems equipment, as
detailed in the table at the end of Annex 2 (under Component 5).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Implementing Agency. All procurement of works and goods, and consultant's services for the
implementation of the various components of the project, except for component 2, would be undertaken by
the Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC), the project Implementing Agency. The procurement of works
under component 2 (Pilot of Rehabilitaton of Secondary Roads) will be carried out by the relevant
Departmental Road Agency but subject to the no objection of the SNC and subject to Bank rules and
supervision. At appraisal, the SNC developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). At project
effectiveness, and every six months afterward, the SNC shall update the Procurement Plan, including a
detailed procurement schedule for the forthcoming semester and a preliminary plan for the subsequent
semester.
Procurement of Works. All contracts for the road upgrading component (Component 1), amounting more
than US$3 million equivalent each, and totaling about US$36.4 million equivalent including contingencies,
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
All rehabilitation works on the secondary roads (Component 2) and the resurfacing works to be financed
with the resources from the Road Maintenance National Account (Component 3), amounting between
US$250,000 to US$3 million equivalent each, and totaling about US$109 million equivalent including
contingencies, would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to
IDA. NCB procedures are recommended because these contracts are unlikely to attract foreign
competition. The average value of these road rehabilitation contracts is relatively small and the works are
scattered over the country. In this context, the local industry is developed enough to ensure competition,
economy and efficiency.
Those maintenance works to be financed with the resources from the Road Maintenance National Account
(CNCV) estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract, and totaling about US$10 million
equivalent including contingencies, will be procured on the basis of price quotations acceptable to IDA.
The price quotations should be obtained from three qualified local contractors or microenterprises (with
capacity to successfully complete the contract) in response to a written invitation. The invitation will
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings when necessary. The award will be
- 60 -



made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the bidding documents.
Procurement of Goods. Goods to be procured under the project include: (a) various information
technology equipment including road-auscultation equipment, communication networks, servers and
workstations, and (b) software to develop a data base management system and complete the implementation
of a financial information management system. The total estimated value of these goods amounts to about
US$200,000 equivalent including contingencies.
Goods and equipment costing US$200,000 equivalent or more would be procured using ICB procedures.
Goods and equipment costing less than US$200,000 equivalent but more than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract would be awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) acceptable to IDA. Goods and
equipment costing US$50,000 or less per contract will be procured using shopping (International/National)
procedures on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three suppliers and a model request
satisfactory to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants & Training. About US$6.8 million equivalent including contingencies would be
allocated to consultant's services and training. The selection and hiring of consultants would be done using
the Bank's Standard Request for Proposal - Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and revised April
1998 and July 1999. Consultant contracts amounting to about US$5.7 million equivalent including
contingencies would be selected using a Quality-Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method or other Bank
methods which are determined to be more appropriate and specified in Procurement Plans to be agreed with
the Bank.
Those consultant services and goods to be financed with resources from the Nordic Development Fund (for
an estimated total amount of US$7 million) would be procured under NDF General Procurement
Guidelines.
Operational Costs. Credit resources cannot be used to finance operational costs.
B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement. An assessment of the SNC's
capacity to do project procurement was carried out for this project during the pre-appraisal mission of
October 16-21, 2000, and it was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on November 2, 2000.
The Bank's Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Bolivia, completed in May 2000 was
used as an input in the assessment and the general findings of the assessment of the SNC conformed to
those of the CPAR. At the time of appraisal for this project the SNC is implementing the Abapo-Camiri
Highway Project, Credit 3235-BO. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the SNC and
the procurement procedures followed by the various departments. The assessment identified weaknesses
and risk factors and proposed specific actions to be addressed before project implementation becomes
effective. An update of the proposed plan of actions was performed with the SNC's project staff during a
preparation mission conducted on October 15-23, 2001.
The risk of the overall procurement capacity of the SNC has been assessed as high. The main risks
concem the lack of proper information dissemination, weak support and control systems, the lack of
qualified staff, and a weak general procurement environment. To mitigate these risks, an series of actions
will be undertaken under the project. Among others, the procurement process/capability of the SNC will be
improved through the implementation of an action plan designed during the assessment exercise. This plan
is shown in the table below. Further strengthening of the SNC's capability and capacity to execute
procurement will be pursued through the use of local standard bidding documents for procurement of works
and goods under NCB procedures acceptable to IDA and the provision of specialized training activities to
- 61 -



be financed under the project In all, this action plan along with the other institutional strengthening
activities included under the project (see Annex 2) attempt to improve the efficiency of the executing
institution and the transparency of procurement processes, reducing the length of time and administrative
steps for procurement processes and contract execution, with an aim at reducing the possibilities of
corruption. This plan is being undertaken in coordination with parallel initiatives being supported under
the Institutional Reform Project (Credit 3245-BO).
Road Rahabiltadon Projct Prpatlon
Precuv*M Ca    NyA    sw   t Repr
AcOon Plan Poposed fbr huprowlaoft In Procuramnt
(C>lsl asaauiiit dadt: Oct l. 200) FinlR w Mmrh 7. 2002
AdMty                            Spad6stion                                      Popoaed Complosin Date  Stabia
I P  lwmt PlanIng                1.1 Pa a Pmamnhlt Pn11 bf  d prad  sun             J.  y 30,2002    Colltd
1.2 FrWe a P_ro ri Pion rNh_mdon                   Jaluy 30.2002    Completed aid Cared
2 Pst and Cw*a Mmtgams  ftinaon  2.1 PFWm TOR bkwtocio cal  Vrtb                     ApfN 15,2002    TORS hI praaDon
2.2 Select s*o  id  a  - ibmfor  htma md            J*y 30, 2002
2.3 Dawfgwt  hiiplaaufstgton wid p1o1ig  SYzIAa    Odr 30, 2002      Not yet due
2A P,ovide sp.cibldaks- hI n-udadmlniftroion       Odar 30.2002      Not yet dJl
3 SWddW It BotaSlew (090)       3.1 Agre WM IAoni S8D0 fpsommaot ofgdo n waft wid NW"  Mari S6,2002  Done
d wwAb nb amdad u    K8 aid NCB Psodte
32 hikdol vw pvA.on Inlhe OCA                       6,ft wa d.1  Marh 6.2002  Done
SBD md DOPA  -  Su D 0  m_y
4 Sped_ nd a   6on          r    4.1 Design an vznwa4 g prmn at 5NC                 By Etiveneus      In pnsgre
4 2 Fboht at * pso_swsm  3* foedio b i fo1r hopolg  I no0 itbr Effdona
speddn t d
4.3                                                 Juneulnsa eblgpognk  30,2004  Not yet doe
5 Osgm    id Fwdfos              5.1 Es~ a  a pso   aipport un5 d  SNC               JUN 30,200      To ha foald wOM Om Fkhnca
& Admind. Dap.
52 PniWld dlid ddf b to.SNCs pw.lwsw a mippot urt   AO 31. 2002
a Ba*d Oparosi 1Mm1l             &1 C     &osubea  d    umjaop.atfm iasforli NC  Condbsi of 6ldnmE a
7 PFsFd Pman_mt Aih             7.1 praa WYNN poma    mi m                      Not iartN SIX umsea idar  DNA TORS to be praed. IDA
onretaon ciadih yea of pdod  wI liAda swfpa TOR
6 Teda*a NW Adilhehv Coilor      &1 Su&dit a plan of adw for dmiafog $NC's T&IA-  Jl   y 31, 2002    In
9 Cod" d Eof  r                  9.1  h psaa Coded EbfornaimidyuaaoaNamelst heauro cilia eCode Irot*rgarton MOPs COfia ctmidS dod
appion i lia PFouned Laus reaponiaa for b poapEon
viumbn bafng dloimd in  and hrplnmaiion
Cosin.
92 l_xoporda a Code d Ei for bM SNC std             July 31, 2C02    Fh tg subjad ID apprvwal of
11.1R Agraaneet (MRI) wli the
RP. Enpada agret data
Larch 30, 2002
10 Arbaoon _IItseve.            10.1 honda apadlo pvAsu on fAd aid oxrtos h psoed     Iiiately        Conrptd
102 Ounwansaptiosni f m                            To bh agreed upon  Not yetdu
ii FOi SynatIs 11.1 Prapa TCforsedleti o ondtsi                                       May 15, 2002    Tob h ted
112 C   tadairmboa.lgnsidatbaparndoatohydamn          Jy 18,2002      Noyt edue
113 Daoefo mid kandh_plemntb tnile 9 systO Dowbwr 15,2002             Not yet du
12 Cortairdflor Sydem            12.1 I  an 4nda n eydemnn i) (Issit                 Ododtir 15,2002  Aso lo mangemad poslrti
befg ausrdy provided
BEofEnahsiolo ONStatist
CorQfdlss On kNiaaatODl Of e
13 S5_yr5trucn                   13.1 Ci_inbp I   deus      yta   o   ri            Fstuay15.2002     Cosatad
P16    at etl SNC
14 Fs.adoe Ral Pomci _ sdarioa  14.1 Sbmit ffwagsnd ba key t%dwId posfsi lo opan owsipon  June 15, 2002  Seaon proc ftor manageaial
poe     s tldy wmpWW
Selaodto of karylaMrchu SiW
WaWaY. Pidigal grw of
ft aR Agraamsi (AMI)
15 W.88i81. mid DDagibn d AidhkY  15.1 Edh da kim of aOWRY datlgdon              Condlon of Effectrnss  ALrdyptoftIheAdmin.
MaWur wie prwaoD
152 Pd In placen adaaa mactsirm for reaolsfofh  d14npu1d md  D beon r31,2002  Co4plloDi  to prior
app-b                                             M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ppsv d161. PsONmelrO Law
by Corgraa and a$Jdlmants d
tonI psomsmewit alaiwds by
the MOF.
is   S       y Fettnim tyaa.     161 he*ssmWondSt4cCN                               NOver4,2D01       Completed.
17 GCmni Ralon                   171 D  ig a cewnintais b owipai for shidhSier oCilia NCs  DecIbr 30.2003  Not yet due
h        hang.
Is Macdooms.                    181 Provdbude tdmI I onfOrkihAhil  N  mnd pOad       Jima30,2002      Ilnddadt NC.t bdget 2002
maonis. nmes b wo mid c                                            Bud pge -    hiorporthd
n the IR Ag9anat (ARI)
-62 -



C) Procurement Plan. Before appraisal, the Borrower developed an overall procurement plan for project
implementation which provided the basis for the aggregate amounts of the procurement methods (per Table
A). The Procurement Plan is in the project files. At the beginning of the first year of project
implementation, and every six months thereafter, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with the
detailed procurement scheduled for the upcoming semester.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            36.39          109.10         10.00        98.44      253.93
(29.11)         (42.32)        (0.00)       (0.00)     (71.43)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00          0.19          0.00        0.19
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.14)       (0.00)      (0.14)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          6.54         23.11       29.65
(0.00)          (0.00)        (5.24)       (0.00)      (5.24)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00          0.23          0.00        0.23
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0. 1 9)     (0.00)      (0. 1 9)
Total                            36.39           109.10        16.96        121.55      284.00
(29.11)         (42.32)        (5.57)       (0.00)     (77.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 63 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selecdion Methd
Conaultant SeVIce
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SF5     LCS      CQ     Other  Nt3P.  Total Cost'
A. Firms              5.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    22.53    27.94
(4.33)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (4.33)
B. Individuals        0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.23    0.58     1.94
(0.24)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.67)  (0.19)  (0.00)   (1.10)
Total  5.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.23    23.11    29.88
_  (4.57)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.67)  (0.19)  (0.00)  (5.43)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 64 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the project
implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category           (US$)                  Method
1. Works                 3,000,000 equivalent or         ICB            Prior review: each contract
more
Prior review: each contract
Less than US$3,000,000          NCB
equivalent but more than
US$250,000 equivalent                           Prior review: twice-yearly
US.2000 equivalenShopping         review of Procurement Plan
less                                      Post review: random
sample of contracting
documents
As provided in the
.  .         ~~~Other methods of      Procurement Plan
As provided in the         procurement
Procurement Plan
2. Goods                US$200,000 equivalent or         ICB            Prior review: each contract
more
Prior review: each contract
Less than US$200,000            NCB
equivalent but more than
US$50,000 equivalent                           Prior review: twice-yearly
US.5000 equivalentShopping         review of Procurement Plan
US$50,000 equivalent or  (International/National)  Post review: random
less                   S(I/N)            sample of contracting
documents
As provided in the
As provided in the       Other methods of        Procurement Plan
Procurement Plan           procurement
3. Services
3.1 Firms                  As provided in the           QCBS                 Prior review for
Procurement Plan                               Consultants: all TORs,
RFPs, short lists, technical
and combined evaluations
of each contract estimated
to cost US$50,000
equivalent or more
- 65 -



Post Review of
Consultants: random
sample of contracting
documents of each contract
estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent
As provided in the   Other methods of selection
Procurement Plan
As provided in the
CQ                Procurement Plan
3.2 Individual             As provided in the             Q
Consultants                Procurement Plan
Prior review for
Consultants: each contract
estimated to cost
US$20,000 equivalent or
more
Post review for
Consultants: random
sample of contracting
documents of each contract
estimated to cost less than
US$20,000 equivalent
4. Amendments and       Increase in contract value                        Prior Review or Prior
extensions of contracts above threshold established                     Review for Consultants as
in the Contracts subject to                         the case may be.
Prior Review column
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision misions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
reviewing a samnple of 1 in 5 contracts signed.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 'Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the loan proceeds would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table C.
Those disbursements corresponding for the resurfacing component would be made on the following basis:
80% until withdrawals under this category have reached an aggregated amount equivalent to $10 million;
60% until a cumulative amount of $20 million has been disbursed; and 30% thereafter. Retroactive
financing not exceeding US$5 million equivalent would be provided for eligible expenditures incurred after
May 1, 2002.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
CIVIL WORKS                                26.30                        80%
(1) Rehabilitation Works of Road
Segments of National Network
(2) Rehabilitation Works of Secondary      4.00                         80%
Roads                             _
(3) Resurfacing Works (CNCV) and           35.22            80% until withdrawals under this
Supervision                                               category have reached an aggregated
amount equivalent to
$10 million; 60% until a cumulative
amount of $20 million has been
disbursed; and 30% thereafter
CONSULTANT SERVICES                        3.45                         80%
(4) Technical Assistance Consultant
Services (road safety, pre-investment
studies, supervision, performance and
financial audits, impact studies)
(5) Institutional Strengthening            0.65                         80%
Consultant Services and Training
GOODS                                      0.11           100% of foreign exchange and 80% of
(6) Auscultation and Information                                  local expenditures
Technology Goods
(7) Unallocated                            7.27
Total Project Costs                        77.00
Total                                      77.00
Funds Flow and Disbursement Arrangements
The Project will disburse using the transaction-based disbursement mechanism. For credit proceeds, funds
will flow, to the SNC through its Special Account. Funds will be withdrawn from this account as the needs
arise and deposited in a local currency account for disbursement of the Bank financed share to the
suppliers. The counterpart funds of the Government of Bolivia or the Prefecturas will go to a separate bank
account and will not be mixed with the credit proceeds.
-67 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
For any civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$0.25 million or less, goods contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$0.1 million or less, consulting firms contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$50,000 or less, individual consultant's contracts to cost the estimated equivalent of US$20,000 or
less, and training expenditures, withdrawal applications will be supported by Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs). Full documentation for Withdrawal Applications based on SOEs will be kept in the PCU premises
and available for inspection by Bank's staff conducting supervision missions and external and internal
auditors. Other eligible expenditures above SOEs thresholds would be submitted to the Bank for
reimbursement using Summary Sheets supported by full documentation (including signed contracts).
All the maintenance activities to be undertaken with resources from the Road Maintenance National
Account would be disbursed according to the relevant (declining) paripassu, as stated in the table above,
and following the procedures set in the previous paragraph.
Disbursements for civil works under the component on rehabilitation of the secondary network would be
transferred by the SNC to the pertinent Prefectura on the basis of presentation of satisfactory execution
reports by the corresponding SEPCAM and upon a visit by SNC supervisors. The project must comply
with all the elements of the eligibility criteria as described in Annex 12.
Special account:
To facilitate credit disbursements, the SNC will open and maintain a separate special deposit account in the
Bolivia Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure and attachment. The Special Account (SA), which would cover the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, would have an authorized allocation amounting to US$
5 million with an initial withdrawal of US$ 3 million to be withdrawn from the credit account and
deposited in the SA. The balance shall be withdrawn when disbursements reach SDR 10.0 million.
Deposits into the Special Account and replenishments up to the authorized allocation set out in the Credit
Agreement and the disbursement letter, would be made on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals
accompanied with the supporting and other documentation as specified in the Disbursement Handbook.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Arrangements
Financial Management Assessment
Overall the financial management of SNC currently satisfies the Bank minimum financial management
requirements. However, another evaluation/assessment on the integrated financial management system will
be made once all the transactions to date are input and the current balances are reconciled to the bank
statements and to the detailed records kept by the Project Coordinating Unit. Furthermore, explicit
commitments need to be made to keep a full complement of financial management staff in place and to
continue to address the internal control observations made in the 2000 external audit report.
Action Plan
Integratedfinancial management system. One of the institutional development actions to be implemented
under the Project, and to be completed by June 2002, consists of strengthening the establishment of a
computerized financial management system for the whole SNC on the basis of the existing SINCON.
- 68 -



The information provided by the records kept in the Project Coordinating Unit, duly reconciled with the
accounting records of SINCON, will allow the preparation of the financial reports required under the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) Guidelines that apply to all projects appraised in 2002. These FMRs
will be prepared on a quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank for monitoring purposes. A Bank's
financial management specialist, based in La Paz, will follow up the development process and recommend
any appropriate modifications during the FMR development.
The Project will be declared effective as long as the FMR system, satisfactory to the Bank, is operational
(condition of effectiveness).
It is necessary that the new Organizational Manual (under preparation) establishes as one of the routine
tasks the preparation of monthly or quarterly reconciliations between the Accounting/Budget Departments
and the Project Coordinating Unit, to ensure that all transactions have been properly recorded, both in the
SINCON and the records kept by the Project Coordinating Unit, which are the basis for the preparation on
project financial statements for Bank purposes.
Institutional development. Additionally, the institutional development includes the following tasks:
*   Under the institutionalization process, the definition of SNC's new structure, including the
Administrative and Finance Management Unit, needs to be completed. This structure should allow an
adequate segregation of duties and responsibilities, as well as the appropriate coordination and
conimunication among the different units involved in administrative and financial processes.
Additionally, the selection and hiring process of key staff should be completed.
*   Upon definition of the new structure, the preparation of the Organizational Manual, detailing functions
and procedures, should be completed. This manual should include as a minimum, position descriptions
for all of the officers, managers and other staff; definition of duties, responsibilities, lines of
supervision and limits of authority; description of policies, procedures and flowcharts, including those
procedures related to the internal control systems.
*   A computerized sub-ledger for fixed assets needs to be established.
Reporting Arrangements
The project will use the transaction-based disbursement method. The SNC will prepare in accordance with
current financial reporting guidelines, the following Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs): (i) a summary
of uses and sources of funds; (ii) procurement monitoring reports, and (iii) output monitoring reports, all
in accordance with models to be agreed upon at negotiations.
Auditing Arrangements
An independent external audit firm, acceptable to the Bank, would be hired to carry out annual audits of the
project and the entity, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and consistent with the
requirements of the Guidelines and Audit Terms-of-Reference for Project Financed by the World Bank in
the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The audit fees will be financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
The audited financial statements of project and entity would be furnished to the Association no later than
six months after the closing date of the previous fiscal year.
- 69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Scheduie                                  Plamed                      Achi
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      15
First Bank mission (identification)             01/05/2000                  01/05/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     11/15/2001                  01/15/2002
Negotiations                                    04/15/2001                  03/08/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2001
Prepared by:
Servicio Nacional de Caminos and World Bank staff and consultants
Preparation assistance:
Project documentation was reviewed and commented by the staff of the Nordic Development Fund, under
the guidance of the Regional Manager, Latin American and the Caribbean. The regional manager has been
Ms. Maria Bouroncle, up to December 2001, and Mr. Jesper Andersen, thereafter.
Support in preparing project documentation for Board presentation was provided by Ms. Gladys Sakata,
LCSFP.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                               S.        p tciity
Aurelio Menendez                  Task team leader and transport economist
Andrea Silverman                  Sector leader
Juan Quintero                     Environmental specialist
Maximno Liberman                  Environmental specialist
Elena Correa                      Sodial evaluation specialist
Keisgner Alfaro                   Procurement specialist
Paul Sisk                         Financial management specialist
Xiomara Morel                     Financial Management and Disbursement Specialist
David Varela                      Lawyer
Luiz Gazoni                       Procurement specialist
Jose Irigoyen                     Hwy engineer and institutional development specialist (peer reviewer)
Christina Malmberg-Calvo          Transport economist (peer reviewer)
Juan Gaviria                      Transport economist (peer reviewer)
Paul Guitink                      Road safety specialist (peer reviewer)
WB Consultants:
Enrique Pinilla                 Highway engineer and procurement specialist
Victor Pozadas                  Highway engineer and road environmental management specialist
Hernan Otoniel Fernandez        Road maintenance and institutional development specialist
Pablo Roda (Economica)          Transport economist and road financing specialist
- 70 -



Erling Rask & K Wass (Consia)     Road safety specialists
Magaly Barba de Matsuzaki         Social evaluacion specialist
Ivonne Farah H.                   Social evaluacion specialist
Argentina Antufiez                Indigenous people evaluation specialist
- 71 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
SNC, "Manual Ambiental para la Construcci6n de Carreteras," prepared by Maximo Liberman, Hans
Salm, y Bertinha Paiva, La Paz, Bolivia, Noviembre 2000.
SNC, "Evaluaci6n Econ6mica Mantenimiento Peri6dico Tramo Calamarca-San Pedro," Departamento de
Planificaci6n, La Paz, Bolivia, Junio de 2000, y documentos de actualizaci6n, Febrero de 2001.
SNC, "Evaluaci6n Econ6mica Mantenimiento Peri6dico Tramo Boyuibe-Yacuiba," Departamento de
Planificaci6n, La Paz, Bolivia, Junio de 2000, y documento de actualizaci6n, Febrero de 2001.
SNC, "Estudio arnbiental Calamarca-San Pedro," Departamento de Gesti6n Ambiental, La Paz, Bolivia,
Junio de 2000.
SNC, "Estudio ambiental Boyuibe-Yacuiba," Departamento de Gesti6n Ambiental, La Paz, Bolivia, Junio
de 2000.
Estudio de Impacto Ambiental del Proyecto de Mantenimiento Periodico del Senkata-San Pedro, Servicio
Nacional de Caniinos, Departamento de Medio Ambiente, Mayo de 1999, La Paz, Bolivia
Estudio de Impacto Ambiental por las Actividades de Mantenimiento Periodico del Tramo
Boyuibe-Yacuiba, Servicio Nacional de Caminos, Departamento de Medio Ambiente, Junio de 2000, La
Paz, Bolivia
Evaluacion del Impacto Social en las Comunidades Indigenas de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de la
Carretera Boyuibe-Yacuiba (con Plan de Desarrollo de las Comunidades Indigenas), preparado para el
Servicio Nacional de Caminos por Argentina Antunez R., Diciembre 2001, La Paz, Bolivia
Plan de Acci6n Social para el Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n y Mantenimiento de Carreteras, preparado
durante la misi6n de appraisal, Enero de 2002.
Evaluacion del Impacto Social de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera Boyuibe-Yacuiba,
preparado para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos por Magaly Barba de Matsuzali, Noviembre 2000, La
Paz, Bolivia;
Evaluacion del Impacto Social de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera Calamarca-San Pedro,
preparado para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos por Ivonne Farah, et. al. Octubre 2000, La Paz, Bolivia.
Acuerdo de Reforma Institutional, preparado por la Oficina del Proyecto de Reforma Institucional,
Ministerio de la Presidencia, Febrero 2002.
Supreme Decree 26487 of January 23, 2002, on the definition of financial resources for the Cuenta
Nacional de Conservacion Vial (CNCV).
Supreme Decree 25336 of September 29, 2001, on the restructuring of the SNC and establishment of the
-72-



CNCV.
Republic of Bolivia, Law No. 2064 of March 2000, on Economic Reactivation.
SNC, "Detailed project costs and implementation plan," April 2001 (updated January 2002, as part of
appraisal mission).
SNC, "Plan para la Prevenci6n y Reducci6n de la Accidentalidad Vial (PARE)," La Paz, Bolivia,
Diciembre de 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Assessment of the SNC, February 2002
SNCFinancialManagementAssessmentRepo
Procurement Plan
PlanAdqRevCompletoWithRPACommen
Procurement Capacity Assessment
ProcurementCapacityAssessmentOct200'
Procurement Action Plan
IN
UpdatedProcurementActionPlanJanO:
Social Action Plan
PlanAccionSocial.do
Indigenous People Development Plan
IPDP Boyuibe-Yacuiba.d(
Aide Memoire of Appraisal Mission of January 2002.
Aide Memoire of Preparation (Pre-Appraisal) of October 2000.
Republica de Bolivia y Banco Mundial, "Diagn6stico de los Procedimientos de Adquisiciones y Plan de
Acci6n para el Mejoramiento de la Contratacion Publica," Abril 2000.
The World Bank, "Bolivia Poverty, Equity, and Income: Selected Policies for Expanding Earning
Opportunities for the Poor, Volume I: The Main Report," Report No. 15272-BO, Latin America and the
Caribbean Region, Country Department III, Country Operations Division I, February 22, 1996.
World Bank, "Bolivia Public Expenditure Review," Report No. 19232-Bo, Country Management Unit,
- 73 -



Country Department VI, Latin America and the Caribbean Region, June 14, 1999.
The World Bank, "Bolivia Microeconomic Constraints and Opportunities for Higher Growth," Poverty
Reduction and Economic Management Department, Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit,
Latin American and the Caribbean Region, January 16, 2001.
C. Other
Strategic Institutional Reform Plan, 2000-2002
Strategic Institutional Reform Plan, 2002-2007
Consia Consultants, "Needs Assessment for Institutional Design of Road Safety Initiative, Bolivia," study
prepared with funding from the Danish Trust Fund, Februauy 2001.
Road Directorate, Ministry of Transport, Denmark, "Road Safety in Latin America and the Caribbean:
Analysis of Road Safety Situations in Nine Country," 1998.
Economica Consultores, Colombia, "Estructuraci6n Econ6mica y Financiera de un Fondo de
Mantenimiento para la Red Fundamental de Carreteras de Bolivia," Abril 2001.
Pozadas, Victor, Consultant, "Anilisis de las Condiciones de los Servicios Departamentales de Caminos,"
La Paz, Bolivia, Octubre de 2000.
FernAndez, Hernan Otoniel, Consultant, "Propuesta para la Reestructuraci6n del SNC,"
Caem, Consultores, "Estudio de Sostenibilidad Financiera para la Reforma Institucional del SNC," Marzo
de 2001.
FernAndez, Herman Otoniel, Consultant, "Propuesta para un Programa de Mantenimiento con
Microempresas y Administradores Viales," Marzo de 2001.
Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico, Viceministerio de Transporte, Comunicaci6n y Aeronafitica Civil,
"Plan Maestro de Transporte por Superficie, Informe Final," preparado por Wilbur Smith and Associates,
Consa S.R.L., y P.C.A. Ingenieros Consultores, La Paz, Bolivia, Noviembre de 2000.
*Including electronic files
-74 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
01-Mar-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount In Us$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.     Orig   Fnn Revyd
P057416       2001 INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVT PROJECT (LIL)             0.00       5.00                0.00       0.00      4.76      0.33       0.00
P060474       2001 GEF BO-Sustalnabilty of Protected Areas           0.00       0.00               15.00       0.00      8.24      -1.15      0.00
P068134       2001 BO Decentralization PSAC                          0.00      60.00                0.00       0.00     39.36      20.83      0.00
P074212       2001 BO-Health Sector Reform APL II                    0.00      35.00                0.00       0.00     34.44       0.00      0.00
P065902       2000 HYDROCARBON SECTOR SOCIAL & ENVIRM.(LIL)          0.00       4.80                0.00       0.00      3.50       1.90      0.00
P060392        1999 BO- HEALTH REFORM-APL I                          0.00      25.00                0.00       0.00      9.23       9.17      0.00
P062790       1999 BO INST REF (OLD CIVS)                            0.00      32.00                0.00       0.00     24.38       7.53      1.95
P055230        1999 ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY                             0.00      88.00                0.00       0.00     64.12      42.59      0.00
P057030        1999 REG REFORM ADJ CREDI                             0.00      40.00                0.00       0.00     18.47      17.70     -0.52
P057396        1998 REGULATORY REFORM & PRrVATIZATION (TA)           0.00      20.00                0.00       0.00     10.98       8.60      0.00
P040085        1998 PARTICIPATORY RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT           0.00      62.80                0.00       0.00     37.31      16.19      0.00
P040110        1998 BOFINDECEN&ACCT                                  0.00      15.00                0.00       0.00      1.07       0.33      0.00
P006204        1998 BO- EDUCATION QUALITY                            0.00      75.00                0.00       0.00     31.57      17.54      0.00
P006186       1996 ENVIRONMENT, INDUSTRY AND MINING PROJECT          0.00      11.00                0.00       1.57      3.07       5.33      2.64
P006197        1995 LAND ADMINISTRATION                              0.00      20.40                0.00       0.00      5.71       1.49      0.00
P006181        1995 30- EDUCATION REFORM                             0.00      40.00                0.00       0.00      9.39       9.72      8.47
P006196        1993 BO- INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                         0.00      50.70                0.00      20.11      8.67      30.73      1.89
Total:       0.00      584.70             15.00       21.68      314.26    188.81     14.43
- 75 -



BOLIVIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1976/88/90/91/95/98  BISA                         0.00    0.46     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46     0.00    0.00
1989/92/94/96/00   COMSUR                         8.75    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.75    0.00     0.00    0.00
0/99                Caja Los Andes                1.20    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Central Aguirre                0.00    0.35     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35     0.00    0.00
1999               Electropaz                    24.55    0.00     0.00    0.00   24.55    0.00     0.00    0.00
1993               GENEX                          0.42    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.42    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Illimani                       8.03     1.00    0.00    0.00    6.15     1.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Mercantil-BOL                  6.43    0.00     0.00    0.00    6.43    0.00     0.00    0.00
0/89                Minera                        0.00    0.40     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.40    0.00    0.00
0                   TRECO                         0.00    2.94     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.94    0.00    0.00
1996/01            Telecel Bolivia               10.00    0.00     5.00   10.00   10.00    0.00     5.00   10.00
Total Portfolio:        59.38    5.15     5.00    10.00   57.50    5.15     5.00   10.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               Banco Ganadero                    5.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               Port Aguirre II                   2.50      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               PQB                              10.50      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        18.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 76 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle.
Bolivia  & Carlb.  Income      Developmentdlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (mfilions)                      8.3       516     2,046                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USSJ                   980     3.680     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     8.2     1.895     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       2.3       1.6       1.0     G 
Labor force f%)                                      2.6       2.3       1.3     GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 199440)                             capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povertv ifne)  67
Urban population (X of total population)              65        75       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      62        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              67        30       32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             9         9        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of Population)  60        85        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   ..        12        15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  91       113       114           Boivia
Male                                                95                 116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              87                 114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic rstios'
GDP (USS billions)                          2.8      4.9       8.3       8.2
Gross domestic investmentUGDP               1686    12.5      18.3      18.2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          24.5     22.8      17.2      18.7
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                          11.4       8.4       9.5
Gross national savinas/GDP                          10.0      10.6      11.5
Current account balance/GDP                 -0.3    -4.0      -5.9      -5.6     Domestic                   Ie     n
Interest paymentslGDP                       6.2      2.4       1.4       2.0                                Investment
Total debt6GDP                              97.2    87.8      80.0      82.9     savings
Total debt servicelexports                  35.0    37.1      26.3      37.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                     23.0      24.0
Present value of debt/exports                                127.0     120.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(averaqe annual qrowth)
GDP                                -0.2     4.0      0.4       2 4       3.4        -     Bolivia
GDP per capita                     -2.2     1.6     -1.9       0.0       2.1              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       1.0     4.2    -13.3       6.1       8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       40
Agriculture                                         25.6      19.9      22.0
Industry                                            20.0      17.1      15 3     20
Manufacturinq                                      17.0      14.0      128      c
Services                                            54.4      63.0      62.7    -20     95 9       97   a'  N      o
Private consumption                        67.3     76.9      77.1      76.2    .40
Generalqovernmentconsumption               13.8     11.8      14.6      14.3                  GDI         e  GDP
Imports of goods and services              22.3     23.9      27.1      27.4
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annua/ growth)
Aoriculture                                          3.3      -0.4       9.6    30
Industrv                                             4.0      -2.1      -0.4    is
Manufacturinq                                                 2.4       17
Services                                             4.3       1.7       0.4            9
Private consumption                         1.2      3 6       3.8       1.9
General oovernment consumption             -3.8      3.5       2.6       0.9    -30
Gross domestic investment                   1.0      8.5     -20.1      -0.9            -     Exports     P-Imports
Imports of qoods and services               4.5      5.6     -16.9       1.3
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 77 -



Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1909     2000     Inflation (%)
DsX"c pffcz
Consumer prkes                                      18.0       3.1      3.       .18
Implicit GDP deflator                      40.3     16.3       3.4      3.7
Government fnance
(% of GDP, includes current grantsJ                                             0
Currnt revenue                               ..     21.6      23.2     23.1            95    90    97   90     99
Current budget balance                       ..      3.7       6.9      7.3            -  GDP deflator   -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..     -4.4      -3.5     -3.8
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      1909      2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..      776     1,051    1,230     2,500
Tin                                         ..     106        69       76         . .
Hydocarbons and gas                         ..     227        65      166
Manufactures                                        31        33       58
Total Imports (c.f)                                  963     1,755    1,830      o   _0*
Food                                        ..     421       342      333
Fuel and energy                                    288       720      903      SW
Capital goods                                      254       693      594        o
94   95  9g   97    98  99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..    123        87       90
Importpricelndex(1995=100)                    ..     85        99       100                 *Exports     EImperts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..      145        88       89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000     CurrentaccountbalancetoGDP(%
(US$ mDiNons)
Exports of goods and services             1,024    1,001     1,310    1,453      o
Imports of goods and services               795    1,130     1,989    2,078     *2
Resource babnce                             228     -130      -678     -624      2
Net income                                 -296     -241      -196     -225     4
Net curent transfers                         60      175       386      385
Current account balance                      -8     -196      -488     -464
Financing Items (net)                       104     326        531      441
Changes in net reserves                     -96     -130       -42       23     10
Memo:
Reserves includinc gold (US$ millions)      136     376      1,223    1,160
Conversion rate (DEC. locaDUSS)         4.OOE-5      3.2       5.8      6.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS mDliNons)                                                                  ComposItIon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and dlsbursed      2,702    4,275     6,609    6,829
IBRD                                      175      194        13        0
IDA                                        64     393      1,097    1,096            G: 1.405         B: 1,096
Total debt service                          366     385        394      616
IBRD                                       13      36         15       13                                  c:220
IDA                                         1       4         16       18
Composton of net resource flows
Official grants                            48     202                           F: 1,D53
Ofical credItors                          156      128       141       83
PrNvate creditors                         156      -24         0      190                                  D: 1.755
Foreign direct investment                  47      27          ..
Portfolh equity                             0       0          ..      ..               E: 1,300
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                66      129       145        5     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              74      49         82       61     B - IDA  D - Other mdutilaterat  F - Private
Principal repayments                        3      23         22       22     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  72      26        60        39
Interest payments                          11      18         10        9
Net transfers                              61       8         51       30
Development Economics                                                                                            9/5/01
- 78 -



Additional
Annex 11
BOLIVIA: ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
The National Account for Road Maintenance (CNCV) and
Resurfacing Program
Introduction and Background
Road assets facilitate trade, integration and communication across country regions and between a country
and its neighboring trading countries. The upkeep is a necessary condition to ensure transport costs does
not hamper the competitiveness of a country products or the intercommunication of its regions. Lack of
maintenance reduces the value of those assets and increases the future costs of rehabilitating them.
Maintenance is a key activity to keep up the level of service of a road network.
In Bolivia, the road network has been increasingly upgraded and expanded with the collaboration of
international donors. As a sparsely populated landlocked country, with low per-capita income, Bolivia
heavily depends on the condition of its road network to allow people to move from one place to another and
exchange their products. Other alternative means of travel, such as the railways, have played a diminishing
role in this respect, because of higher costs and the more limited flexibility to reach poorer areas and those
in the mountainous regions of the country.
In all, the condition of the Bolivian road network is deficient, and protracted maintenance (coupled with the
overloading of trucks) is the main reason for this condition. This issue is aggravated as the road network is
upgraded and expanded through new projects. In the ten years from 1987 to 1997, the length of the
network increased by about 30 percent, with the number of km of paved roads increasing by 87 percent
(even if from a low base of 1,645 kin) and of gravel roads by 66 percent.
The critical nature of maintenance is further compounded in Bolivia by its climate conditions. Being it
heavy rains or extreme changes in temperature between night and day, roads require appropriate
maintenance lest their deterioration accelerates with those conditions.
Under the Second Road Maintenance Project, about US$1.4 million were allocated to undertake a pilot of
routine maintenance by contract. The program was implemented during 1999. The extend of this pilot
encompassed activities that went beyond mere routine maintenance to bring in some cases the condition of
the road to maintainable. This experience highlighted three key lessons: (a) the initial interest from private
contractors was not as high as expected as a learning curve for this type of activities necessarily has to take
place; (b) maintenance costs are high when roads are not in a good condition, requiring the incorporation
into contracts of reconstruction or rehabilitation works; (c) there is a need to take into consideration a
sustainable mechanism for the financing of maintenance, and (d) maintenance by contract can be
undertaken and is suitable for the conditions of Bolivia. In addition, supervision of works contracts is a
critical element.
Based on this experience, the SNC expanded the program of contract maintenance to the entire network,
but with a much more limited budget per km (as established by the cap set by the 70% of the resources
collected through tolls, or around US$13 million, that constituted the bulk of the SNC own resources). The
initial response from contractors was at best again lukewarm and in some segments there were no
- 79 -



proposals. The response was a consequence mostly of the limited budget amount for each contract but
also, in some cases, of the remoteness of some road segments from populated centers. Supervision for this
national maintenance program was often undertaken with staff from the SNC, with limited budgetary
resources to travel to the sites. With lack of effective control and the frequent emergency situations of
some of the activities, the total cost of the program increased above 100% compared to the initial estimates.
Furthermore, payment delays for the additional costs, created difficulties to both the contractors and the
SNC, with stoppage of activities and further deterioration to the roads.
The experience after two years of implementation of contract maintenance is that the limited resources that
can be applied to a road network in a deteriorated condition constrains the possibilities for an effective
maintenance program. Furthermore, the existence of additional works that are not built into the original
contracts creates further difficulties in the execution of the works. Lastly, with also limited resources for
supervision, the contracts cannot be adequately enforced and are open to frequent claims between the
contractor and the contracting administration and to substantial cost overruns.
Current Financing Practices
To attend the needs of the road assets, the Government uses two main sources of fund: moneys collected
through road tolls and budgetary allocations from the central treasury. Toll collection is the main source of
road maintenance finance. It amounted to about US$18 million in 1999, and according to the law, is
distributed 70 percent to the SNC for the upkeep of the national network and 30 percent to the Prefectures
for the maintenance of the departmental network. Municipalities also allocate resources to the maintenance
of the roads under their jurisdictions, but this is done almost exclusively on the basis of emergencies.
A substantial amount of resources, however, are extracted from road users in the form of various taxes or
charges. In 2000, road users contributed about US$295 million in the form of taxes, licenses, and tolls (see
section E.2, page 25). After netting the normal amount of taxes applied to other goods in the economy, the total
amount of these charges largely surpasses the costs of the periodic and routine maintenance needs of the
total network. According to an study on road user charges completed in April 2000, the estimated needs
for the maintenance of the trunk roads network amount to some US$ 43 million as shown in the following
table:
Estimated annual cost of maintaining the trunk roads network
Earth          3,190      Wa               4.20          4.20
Gravel         3,334         9.00           7.30         16.30
Paved          3,710         15.50          6.90         22.30
Total         10,233         24.50         18.40         42.90
The above estimates, however, should be considered a rough approximation, particularly for periodic
maintenance, mainly due to the lack of reliable information on the condition and the 1xeeds of the network.
The National Account for Road Maintenance (CNCV): Establishment and Management
Supreme Decree 26336 of September 29, 2001, created the CNCV, which will be founded from sources
such as road users charges (mainly from toll collection), reimbursements from international agencies for
maintenance expenditures eligible for their financing, and contribution from the Treasure. Supreme Degree
- 80 -



26487 of January 23, 2002 specifies the Treasury contributions to CNCV as a percentage of the revenues
from the taxation on gasoline and diesel. This percentage is 5 % for year 2002,10 % for year 2003 and 15
% from year 2004 on. Only contracted out works would be eligible for financing under the CNCV and the
corresponding contracts would have an scope of work that covers a substantial amount of routine
maintenance and/or resurfacing (more than 80% of the contract value).
Note: Routine maintenance refers to local repairs of roadway and pavement; grading of shoulders; regular
maintenance of road drainage, side slopes, verges, traffic control devices, and furniture; roadside cleaning,
dust and vegetation control, and maintaining rest areas and safety appurtenances.
Resurfacing includes the placing of one or more asphalt overlays on an existing paved road (with a thin
asphalt overlay, a surface treatment, or a seal coat), or regraveling a gravel road to preserve their structural
integrity and ride quality. Resurfacing is often called periodic maintenance.
Routine maintenance is a recurrent expenditure. On the other hand,, resurfacing is a capital expenditure to
improve existing physical conditions.
The table below presents the main features of SNC's Maintenance Unit Program for 2002-2006 year
period, including physical and financial targets. The program comprises six subprograms, which are mainly
defined by their source of finance.
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program for the National Network
(Acivities under the responsibility of the Mlantenence Manaigenent Unit. Excludes admilnstrtive costs.)
2002-2006
Physical Tanets iomrtmd)                         '            . 200  -''. 0- -         2005         2008 - e  Tralta-
ta) Routine ma,,menance                       10 316      10.506      10,545      10 705      10,876
(b) Periodic maintenance (resurfacing)           480         320         660         760          870
(c) Emergency and spot improvements       n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a
(d) Rehabilitation                                34         151         150          52                   387
(e) Special projects                              40                                                        40
(fl Comprehensive maintenance (Abapo-Camir)      240         240         229                               709
Total     11,110      11,217      11,584       11,517      11,746
Fmanclalre ubements(U$ mw)                      ,              200-        2004-       200          200     .. TOW
ta) Rouline minienance                           06         24 2        21 8        197         200      1063
(b) Periodic maintenance (resurfacing)           11.7        16.0        27.6        30.7        22.0     107.9
Sub-total (Maintenance, CNCV)    32.3        40.2        49.4         50.4        42.0    214.2
(c) Emergency and spot improvements              9.0                                                        9.0
(d) Rehabilitation                                8.0        17.6        19.4         5.0                  50.0
(e) Special projects                             5.5                                                        5.5
(f) Comprehensive maintenance (Abapo-Camiri)     4.6         2.8          2.8         2.1                  12.4
Total       59.4        60.6        71.6        57.4         42.0    291.1
Sources of financinq (USS million)      .          2     .'   2002.                        5 ---  2003. -  *2004  2008  2006  . ..-Td
laj CNCv ui,lis ani tuel .anffs. Nalional Tieasurn)  20 6    24 2        21 8        19 7        20 C     106 3
O9C vD CNCV (loils 3nd fuel tanffs. Naironal Treasurq)  2 3         6 2        20.4        22 7        22 0      73 6
" IDA Credit (new)                               9.3         9.8          7.2         8.0         .        34.3
Sub-total (CNCV)      32.3        40.2        49.4        50.4         42.0    214.3
(c) PL-480 (committed)                           9.0         -            -           -           -         9.0
IDA Credit (new)                               1.5         9.7        11.2         4.0         -        26.3
(d) CAF (Chuqui Chuqui-Pte. Arce)                4.9          4.4         4.4         -           -        13.7
National Treasury                              1.6         3.5         3.9         1.0         -        10.0
Sub-total (Rehabilitation)   8.0        17.6        19.4         5.0         -        50.0
(e) National Treasury (IDB Credit remnants)      5.5          --                      -           -         5.5
IDA Credit (3235-BO)                          0.9          0.6         0.6         0.4         -         2.5
(f) Japan BIC                                     1.9         1.2         1.2         0.9         -         5.1
National Treasury                              1.8         1.1         1.1         0.8         -         4.8
Sub-total (Comprehensive Maintenance)    4.6         2.8         2.8         2.1          -       12.4
Total       59.4        60.6        71.7         57.4        42.0    291.1
The routine maintenance and resurfacing subprograms constitute about 75 % of the program and envision
routine maintenance of about 53,000 cumulative kilometers and resurfacing works of some 3,000 km                 of
roads. The cost and financing of these subprograms is presented in the following table, including the
expected impact indicators in terms of the condition of the national road network.
- 81 -



Coaolsdatd Financial and Phyrical Maintenance Plan
2002,-2006
Routine naintenance                  10,316    10,506    10,545    10,705    10,876
Resurfacing                            480       320       660       760       870
Rehabilitation                          34       151       150        52
Comaprehensive maintenance             240       240       229
Total   11.070    11,217    11.584    11 517   11 746
Routine maintenance                   20.60     24.16     21.83     19.70    20.01     106.30
Resurfacing                           11.67     16.04     27.55     30.66    22.02     107.94
Local repairs & emergencies            9.00                                              9.00
Rehabilitation                         8.02     17.57     19.43     4.95                49.97
Special Projects                       5.50                                              5.50
Comprehensivemaintenace                4.59      2.82      2.82     2.12                12.35
Total    59.38     60.59    71.63     57.43     42.03     291.06
Tolnsh&fueltariFs                     18.62     32.00     42.60     44.30    46.00     183.52
IDACredits                            11.75     20.04     18.93     12.38               63.10
PL480                                  9.00                                              9.00
CAF Credits                            4.93      4.38     4.38                          13.69
Japan JBIC                             1.88      1.16      1.16     0.87                 5.07
National Treasure (TGN)               13.20      3.01      4.56      -         -        20.77
Total    59.38     60.59    71.63     57.55     46.00     295.15
% of roads length In:
good condition                      20        23        27        31        36        41
fair condition                      58        56        53        50        45        40
poor condition                      22        21        20        19        19        19
The two routine and resurfacing subprograms would be financed from CNCV and from budgetary transfers
as needed. IDA would participate in the financing of resurfacing works of about 3,000 km to be
implemented in five years . The estimated cost of these works is US $108 million and the estimated amount
of the IDA participation is US$ 34.3 million. In order to promote sound financial practices for the sector
IDA's credit would not finance routine maintenance. Also, to build gradually expenditures for rehabilitation
and resurfacing works into the CNCV budget financing for future years, IDA disbursements for road civil
works would be made on a declining basis. Initially, they would be on the basis of 80%            of total cost. This
percentage would be decreased gradually to about 26% so that the average disbursement rate of 32 %
would be achieved by the end of the project
The first year program for resurfacing works is well under preparation. SNC is advancing the engineering
designs and bidding documentation for about 480 km of national roads. Further arrangements for this
program will be reviewed during negotiations of the credit.
Eligibility of subprojects to be fmanced by the Bank
Before committing funds for a resurfacing subproject, IDA would require the following:
*    Confirmation that the subproject is part of the resurfacing program agreed with the Bank. Specific
subprojects will be prepared on a continuous basis, in time for inclusion in the annual programs.
*    Adequate information and analysis carried out indicating the economic viability of the subproject.
These may include traffic information and estimated cost of the works so that they are within certain
limits. For example:
- 82 -



less than 500         20,000
500 to 1,000         25,000
1,000 to 3,000        40,000
more than 3,000        60,000
*   The subproject should neither require changes in alignment nor involve negative environmental
implications (environmental regulations would be part of the works contract).
*   The subproject should comply with procurement standards satisfactory to IDA.
In addition to the financing of the civil works associated with the resurfacing of the roads, IDA would
finance the consultancy services required for the performance auditing of CNCV and for carrying out an
annual rating of the national (trunk) roads condition.
- 83 -



Annex 11
Attachment 1
Bolivia: Road Rehabilitation Project
Principles for the Terms of Reference for Technical Performance Audits of the CNCV
(in Spanish)
[To be revised in light of the final content of the operational procedures for the CNCV]
Introducci6n
El SNC requiere contratar servicios de consultoria para evaluar el Cumplimiento de las disposiciones
tecnicas, ambientales, de adquisiciones y de gesti6n relacionadas con el Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial. La
firma contratada reportari al Presidente Ejecutivo del SNC.
La firma a ser contratada realizara una evaluaci6n ex-post de las actividades ejecutadas con recursos del
Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial (obras civiles y supervisi6n) durante el uiltimo semestre (incluir fechas).
Los consultores deberin basar su opini6n en una revisi6n detallada que comprenda (1) los trabajos de
mantenimiento de una muestra representativa de al menos el 20% de los contratos de mantenimiento durante
el anterior semestre en diversas areas geogrificas, (2) el cumplimiento con las guias de adquisiciones del
Bolivia para adjudicar los contratos de obra y/o supervisi6n durante el anterior semestre, y (3) el progreso en
el fortalecimiento institucional del SNC y las cuatro Prefecturas a ser consideradas bajo el proyecto. Los
servicios materia de contrataci6n comprenderin, pero no necesariamente se limitarin, a lo siguiente:
Area amblental
Verificar (1) el cumplimiento de los procedimientos ambientales contenidos en el manual de manejo
ambiental, (2) el cumplimiento de los requerimientos ambientales tanto en el disenio de las actividades de
mantenimiento como en su ejecuci6n, y (3) la medida en que la aplicaci6n de estos requerimientos es exigida
por la supervisi6n de las actividades de mantenimiento.
Area de adquisiciones
a)   Revisar la ejecuci6n de los trabajos de mantenimiento realizado por los contratistas segun calendario y
especificaciones tecnicas contractuales, analizando los informes presentados por contratistas y supervisores y
verificando su conformidad en el terreno y cumplimiento con los terminos contractuales sobre una muestra
representativa de los diversos tipos de contratos en las diversas areas geograficas del pais.
b)   Evaluar la calidad de la inspecci6n y seguimiento realizados por la supervisi6n contratada, con
relaci6n al cumplimiento de los plazos contractuales, uso de mano de obra, y control de costos y calidad de
las actividades de mantenimiento, incluyendo el analisis y monitoreo de las posibles 6rdenes de cambio y
reclamos presentados por los contratistas.
c)   Evaluar la calidad y adecuaci6n de los expedientes t6cnicos empleados para la contrataci6n de las
obras, en particular la validez de las soluciones y metodos de mantenimiento propuestos, y la utilidad de la
documentaci6n aportada como respaldo al disefio de los contratos de mantenimiento.
d)   Verificar que las convocatorias a concurso para la contrataci6n de la supervisi6n de las actividades de
mantenimiento y de los posibles estudios de ingenierfa, y en las licitaciones publicas nacionales para los
contratos de mantenimiento han seguido los procedimientos de adquisiciones del Gobierno de Bolivia.
e)   Verificar que los registros de contratistas y consultores se llevan adecuadamente, son actualizados
peri6dicamente, y que los procedimientos se aplican de manera que dan la oportunidad de participar en las
licitaciones e invitaciones a todos los contratistas y consultores calificados, respectivamente, de acuerdo con
- 84 -



las guias de contrataci6n del pais.
f)   Comparar los costos de los contratos con los costos finales de los contratos de mantenimiento
concluidos durante el periodo anterior a la realizaci6n de esta auditoria, y analizar las variaciones entre
costos promedios para distintos tipos de contrataci6n del mantenimiento (e.g., micro-empresas,
mantenimiento por contrato, etc.) y para distintas regiones representativas del pais.
Area gesti6n y evaluaci6n de resultados
a)   Verificar el cumplimiento de los indicadores de desempeilo y metas semestrales acordadas con los
distintos tipos de contratistas de mantenimiento. Consolidar esta informaci6n para elaborar los indicadores
de gesti6n de la entidad ejecutora (SNC) de acuerdo con los criterios acordados bajo el proyecto.
b)   Llevar a cabo la evaluaci6n de los resultados y de los impactos de los contratos de mantenimiento con
entrevistas a las comunidades beneficiadas con el fin de conocer el parecer de la poblaci6n cercana a los
caminos sobre los posibles impactos positivos y negativos de las actividades de mantenimiento. Consolidar
esta informaci6n para incorporar posibles ajustes al disehjo y/o ejecuci6n de las actividades de
mantenimiento.
Requisitos, informes y duraci6n de los servicios contratados
Los trabajos de esta consultoria se desarrollaran mayormente en el campo, a traves de la evaluaci6n de una
muestra apropiada de caminos y obras en ejecuci6n o terminados durante el semestre anterior a la
adjudicaci6n de estos servicios. La muestra de caminos evaluada sera claramente identificada. El consultor
sefialara aquellos tramos donde se hayan observado variaciones significativas del promedio, en cuanto a
costos, adquisiciones o calidad de las obras, con el objeto de evaluar otros contratos en el mismo area e
identificar posibles dificultades en tal zona. Las evaluaci6n de los resultados requerira la realizaci6n de
entrevistas con las poblaciones de las comunidades beneficiadas.
Los servicios de evaluaci6n de cumplimiento se contrataran por un periodo de 12 meses. El consultor
presentari al Directorio del SNC los informes semestrales dentro de los 45 dias siguientes al semestre
considerado. Las recomendaciones seran analizadas con ayuda del consultor en las revisiones anuales del
proyecto que llevaran a cabo el SNC y el Banco Mundial.
Perfil de la empresa a ser contratada
La empresa deberi ser una firma o asociaci6n especializada en auditoria de gesti6n con experiencia en el
campo de las obras viales y en el examen de instituciones del estado. Para cumplir eficiente y enteramente
todas las tareas incluidas en los presentes terminos de referencia, el consultor debera contar con un equipo
profesional que pueda cubrir las siguientes areas: (1) ingenieria vial y administraci6n de contratos; (2)
auditoria de gesti6n; y (3) desarrollo institucional.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 12
BOLIVIA: ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
The Pilot Program of Rehabilitation of Secondary Roads
Introduction
This component will include a pilot to support the rehabilitation and maintenance activities of four
Servicios Prefecturales de Caminos(SEPCAMs) on the core secondary road network under their
jurisdiction. Furthermore, the component seeks to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the road
agencies of the four SEPCAMs so that the management of the road networks under their jurisdiction (about
5,000 kms) is improved. The component consists of a rehabilitation of about 200 kms of secondary roads
that comply with a set of criteria. As such, the pilot limits its interventions to the departments of La Paz,
Oruro, Chuquisaca and Tarija Due to their demographic and geographic characteristics, these four
departments (and their corresponding SEPCAMs) are a good representation of the nine Prefectures of
Bolivia. The objectives and activities of the program have been designed in consultation with the
participating SEPCAMs to ensure agreement with the priorities of these entities and their ownership of this
project component.
The Servicios Departamentales de Caminos
The SEPCAMs are deconcentrated administrative units of the central government and function as part of
the department administration (Prefectura) and respond to the state governor (Prefect). Reviews of the
work of the SEPCAMs indicate major deficiencies. Among them:
* Lack of an effective organization structure with clear lines of authority, responsibility, and
communications;
* Limited and unreliable information required for road planning, programming and design, particularly
traffic data and road inventory;
* Lack of reliable information on highway financing and expenditures;
* Shortage of qualified technical personal;
* Lack of adequate knowledge of maintenance work, from planning, programming and budgeting to
execution.
During project preparation the four SEPCAMs that would be part of the pilot component were visited. The
visits confirmed the above-mentioned difficulties the SEPCAMs confront in managing the road assets under
their responsibility. The SEPCAMs were created in a drastic manner, following the application of the
Administrative Decentralization Law, and lack technical and management skills, are weak in their
functioning and lack a rational process for the programming of their interventions in maintaining and
rehabilitating the roads under their jurisdiction. Furthermore, their functions often extend, on one side, to
attending the demands of the municipalities, and on another side, to cover the local counterpart of the
projects financed by international donors for the national (primary) network. These external mandates
undermine the possibilities of the SEPCAMs for planning and executing the budgets in principle allocated
to interventions in the secondary network. Furthermore they create a lack of discipline in the execution of
their assigned functions and do not allow for an effective financial control of the expenditures. This lack of
accountability reduces the incentives for an efficient and rational management of the road assets under the
jurisdiction of the SEPCAMs and limits the coercive capacity of the national Government. Furthermore,
because of the availability of the heavy equipment and the high number of labor pools (both inherited from
- 86 -



the pre-decentralization SNC) the SEPCAMs undertake their maintenance activities by force account, with
a very low productivity.
Scope of the Project Component
The evaluation of the activities and functioning of the SEPCAMs suggests that corrective measures must
be put in place to support these entities' interest in improving the management of their road patrimony,
including better programming of their road maintenance and rehabilitation investments and better
accountability of their activities. The project would support these efforts by financing the rehabilitation of
eligible feeder roads under the responsibility of the SEPCAMs, and includes specific commitments from
Government to seek strengthening the institutional capabilities of the SEPCAMs. Also, the project would
finance technical assistance for the supervision of the works (estimated at about 40 professional-moths) and
for institutional improvements (about 13 professional-months) The SEPCAMs would have access to the
project funds, only if they obtain the no objection from the SNC. The SEPCAMs would retain the initiative
in managing their networks while the SNC role would be to review and approve subprojects proposed for
inclusion in the project, and to provide technical assistance to develop and improve the administration,
planning, design, construction, maintenance and operation of secondary roads in a consistent way.
To implement this component, the Government through SNC and each participating prefecture would make
the necessary arrangements so that the subprojects are carried out with due diligence and efficiency. More
specifically, (i) SNC would assign two senior professionals to assist the participating SEPCAMs with the
planning, execution and evaluation of the rehabilitation works on the secondary roads and with the related
institutional improvements, and (ii) the SEPCAMs would commit their selves to the definition and
subsequent implementation of an institutional action plan to improve their road management practices by
end of year 2006. SNC will commit itself to provide the necessary technical assistance to the SEPCAMs.
These arrangements would be confirmed at negotiations.
SNCs would have to further develop a set of criteria, satisfactory to IDA for the eligibility of subprojects
that the SEPCAMs would submit (see attachment). In addition to the technical requirements for the
individual subprojects, the interested SEPCAM would have to comply, or have a program to comply, with
institutional improvement priorities to improve their road management practices. Institutional standards for
these improvements vary with the individual SEPCAM and the level of its development. These
improvements, however, should at least consider:
*   Road condition and traffic inventory systems;
*   The accounting system;
*   The system for contracting works and for supervising their implementation.
*   The road maintenance system.
Substantial institutional improvements of the four mentioned SEPCAMs by the end of 2006 would indicate
the success of this subproject implementation.
In respect to the technical criteria, the SEPCAMs will present to the SNC:
*   A satisfactory rollover three-year road rehabilitation and maintenance program expressed in physical
and financial terms;
*   The capital and recurrent budget, consistent with the above program, for the current and previous year
and projected budget for the next year;
*   And for each candidate subproject the following information:
- 87 -



*   The candidate sub-projects should include either the rehabilitation of road segments or construction
of bridges that would allow keeping those roads transit able all-year round, avoiding interruptions
to the traffic, and facilitate access to and from main economic corridors.
*   The cost per km should not exceed US$25,000.
*   Sub-projects must comply with the requirements of SNC's environmental manual. Sub-project
that may imply substantial impacts to the natural or social habitat or that may entail resettlement of
population will not be eligible.
The presentation of the documentation should include all the information that would allow the SNC to
evaluate the sub-project on its technical (engineering) feasibility, economic (net benefits to the area of
influence) feasibility, and environmental (no major impacts to the environment) feasibility. A template for
the application to participate in the pilot, with a summary of the technical and socio-economic information
for the candidate roads, as well as a guide to assess the institutional needs of the concemed SEPCAM was
reviewed and agreed at appraisal. The application should be complemented with the engineering proposal
(drawings, specifications and bidding documents), estimated costs, and the proposed arrangements for
supervision of the works for the proposed sub-project.
The pilot would allocate some US$5.0 million for the rehabilitation and works supervision of secondary
roads. IDA would finance 80 % of the works and 100 % of the assistance to supervision and institutional
matters or US$4.0 million. The four Prefectures will compete for the project funds on the basis of
preparation of the subprojects. It is envisaged that this project component would constitute a pilot for the
future of cooperation between SNC and the SEPCAMs.
The procurement of the corresponding works will follow the procurement procedures under the project
(and those that apply to IDA-funded projects). Individual rehabilitation contracts are expected to cover
some 20 Kms of road and have a cost of about US$ 500,000. Most of these works would be contracted
following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements would be made effective upon
presentation through the SNC of all the relevant documentation (in accordance with the disbursements
conditions under the project as specified in Annex 6).
Caminos Secundarios: Flujograma del Proceso de Elegibilidad de Sub-proyectos
- 88 -



declarado ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Pepra 
incluido ~        prgendcud
uabilitaci6n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ nsitcinae
l~
p  bopraoyecua o,  son-eia  rgan
SCsmt  piaci6n
k6ncapr  lcad a s bproyectoro
apicai6ne
elgbepmsrincluedoaen
prgaa De eAblti6
Las~~~ ~ o89-e upryct o



Formularlo de Apilcad6n para
Rehabflitad6n de Caminos Departamentales bajo la Jurlsdlccl6n de las Prefecturas
A. CaracteristbcaS Tecnicas y Amblentales del Camino
Caracterlsticas del Proyecto
Nombre del proyecto:  I
Longkud (metros):                           Ancho propuesto (metros):
Ubicacion: DepaurmbrnI ||PonProv        m        a (s):                 |Municipio (a):
Costo de rehabilitaci6n:         Por km (USS):                           Total (US$):
Breve descrlcfln de la rehabilftoci6n propuesta:
Costo annual do mantenimionto:   Por km (USSk                            Total (US$):
Breve descr pl6n del mantenimbento propuesto:
Modo propuesto para ejecucl6n del mantenimiento:              Por contrato              Por administacion|I
Fecha estimada para la ejecuci6n de los trabajas do rehabilltaci6n:   de         ]         al
Estado de los disehos:
1-                                                                                                     I
Estado de los dacumentos de lictacifn de obras:
Caract.ristlca del trAflco y soc_wcon6mkcas del hema de Influoncla (franja de S kil6metros a lo largo del proyecto):
Relieve atravesado por la via       Montatoso[Z         O I ndulado c   I     Plano      m
No. de viles diartas (total, incluyendo trafico no motorizado) on ambas direcciones  |      |
No. de vehiculos motorizados por dia en ambas direcdones
Composid6n vehcular (nujmero de vehiculas motorzados)
Camiones Camlnes Camones
Autos     Buses      Pick-ups  Ikoeros   medianos pesarbs
Numero de muertos por accidentes en el uftimo aho
Nombre y poblbcd6n de oomunidades en el irea de influencia del camino y caracteristicas de pobreza y desarrolla econ6mico
Inice de
necesrdbdes  Indice de  No. de                                                    Indice de
Nombre de Is  Pobaddno   bas        ortdnodad  pob0es            Pnndpabc actividades                   pEduccion
conmided    (no, de hub)  ineWdedus  itfantila  extemos              ecodnmicas                          econo6ica'
I           I         I          II11
Indicador quo reltje dt nv de add econt nica en h zonu, sa exere. A confirmr en bse a exWsteina de dato cenrales u otbo.
Cwacalcs fihias y atrncturales del camino existents
Subidas y bajadas (m/lkm)                             Curvatura media horizontal (grados/km)          J
Tlpo de camino         Asfaltada |         |          Grava            TIiertetra
- 90 -



Rugosidad (IRI) (si es aplicable)
Velocidad media de un auto (km/hr)
Indicador estuctural del camino (a ser definido)
Dias de interrupci6n del paso vehicular por afo    |        }
Numero de puntos con alta incidencia de accidentes  |1     ]
Caracteristicas medlo-ambientales
El camino atraviesa 0 bordea:
Si       No
Sitios de demumbe
Shios de erosi6n
Areas inundables
Rfos, canales, pozos, quebradas
Lagos, lagunas, embalses
Cienagas o areas pantanosas
Naamientos y manantiales
Areas de reserva, areas protegidas, parques naturales
Suelos con capacidad de mayor uso forestal
El camino atraviesa:
Si       No
Comunidades indigenas
Areas de inter6s comunitarolancestral
Areas de importancia arqueol6gica
La rehabilitaci6n ylo mantenimiento del camino causara:
Si       No
Tala de bosques o selvas
Alteraci6n de paramos o vegetaci6n a mas de 2,800 msnm=
Contaminaci6n de aguas
Aumento de la caza de fauna silvestre
Obstaculos para la migraci6n de especies silvestres
Amplicaci6n de la frontera agrfcola o pecuara
Asentamientos nuevos, invasi6n o colonizaci6n de tierras
Conflictos por la tenencia de a tierra
Daiios a predios o inmuebles de habitantes pobres
Necesidad de reubicaci6n de personas o negocios
Planificaci6n y presupuestacl6n
El Servicio Departamental de Caminos tinee un programa tnenal de rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento de su red de caminos expresado
en terminos fisicos y financieros:                                  sil I              nol
Si no lo tiene, explique las razones:
Estan disponibles los presupuestos de capital y gastos corrientes de este aiio, el presu  estoeecutado del ano noan
las proyecciones para el aho entrante                               SiL                nol
Si estan disponibles, explique las razones:
Otras observaciones
- 91 -



B. Requeriml.ntoe Institclonales
La aplFcaci6n debe acompafiarse de un infome de maximo tres paginas que incluya un analisis Irstituclonal del SDC y un plan de
acci6n para mejorar sus pricticas gerencales. El inforne debe cubrlr pero no Ilmitarse a los siguientes aspectos, en temminos de
bas funclones de planear, programar y ejecutar acvMdades de mantenlmlento y rehabliftacion en las caffeteras bajo la Jurisdiccion
de la Prefectura correspondientes:
I Organtzacl6n estructural
2 Areas de politicas y toma de decisones
3 Procedimientos de trabajo y comunicaci6n
4 Recursos financieros
5 Recursos ffsicos
6 Recursos humanos
7 Sistemas de informaci6n
- 92 -



Additional
Annex 13
BOLIVIA: ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
The Road Safety Component
Introduction and General Assessment
Bolivia presents one of the World's worst road safety records, and accidents are increasing in numbers.
The statistics show nearly 13.000 registered accidents per year and nearly 1,000 fatalities, yet with a
relative small vehicle fleet.
A road safety seminar, held in September 2000 and summarized in the report "Plan para prevenci6n y
reducci6n de la accidentalidad vial", highlighted a whole array of critical areas, as often happens when the
issue of road safety is first brought up for discussion: (a) poor state of the roads and lack of road safety
elements; (b) inadequate system for registration and information of accidents; (c) lack of norms and
manuals for road design, signs and markings that account for road safety considerations, and insufficient
geometric characteristics and capacity; (d) obsolete norms for traffic and transport; (e) poor education and
enforcement of driving regulations; (f) non- existent inter-institutional framework and weak capacity of
institutions related to road safety issues from diverse angles; (g) poor medical service for accidents from the
health sector; (h) lack of policies and plans for road safety; (i) limited commitment from transport
companies to road safety in light of a fiercely competitive environment; (j) old age of vehicle fleet (and
transformation of vehicles imported from East Asia from right- to left-hand drive; and (k) lack of
governmental and social awareness of the road safety problem, in spite of notorious road accidents
Statistics are sketchy and lack reliability. Nevertheless, following information provided by General
Command of the National Police (Comando General de la Policia Nacional) the number of accidents in
each of the Bolivian departments amount to about 30,000 in 1999. Accidents are very unevenly distributed
on Departments. La Paz and Santa Cruz account for 41% and 30% respectively of all accidents and in the
three biggest Departments more than 80% of accidents happen (see figure 1).
Figure 1: Distribution of Accidents on Departments
Pandol %    La Paz
Pando1%I 1%
Beni11%%
Tarija 4% a
Chuquisaca 3%
Potosi 3%
Oruro 6%\
Cochabamba\
11%          -~ --Santa Cruz
30%
The number of persons killed in road accidents is shown in figure 2.
- 93 -



Figure 2: Number of Killed Persons in Road Accidents 1995-99
1,200
1,000       *
400
200
0
1995     1996    1997     1998    1999
About 77% of accidents occur in urban areas. Of these almost 90% are accidents in junctions. The picture
of the accidents is imprecise but similar experiences from neighboring countries indicates that accidents
that occurs in urban areas tends to have fewer fatalities than accidents that occurs on highways--which is
due to speed combined with driving in mountainous areas with insufficient guard rails, and improper
maintained roads.
The creation of an institutional framework to manage the road safety matters is an issue of major
inportance. Such an institution should be established at a high political level in order to secure proper
coordination between the different agencies involved in road safety. A possibility could be to establish a
National Road Safety Council (NRSC) at the Ministerio de la Presidencia or within the Vice-Ministerio de
Transportes. It is further envisaged that a secretariat would be established in connection with the NRSC.
The secretariat would carry out the daily tasks of the NRSC in close co-operation with agencies working in
the area.
The tasks of the NRSC would be to: (a) define policies in the area of road safety; (b) prepare, manage and
co-ordinate national road safety action plans; (c) secure political support for the plans; (d) initiate a
political process to modify laws and regulations where necessary; (e) keep close contacts with all road
safety stakeholders; (f) monitor the implementation of each of the elements of the National Plan for Road
Safety; (g) undertake regular seminars for dissemination of developments in the area; (h) promote road
safety in general, (i) prepare an annual report on the status of road safety in Bolivia.
The Road Safety Component
The Road Safety Component under the project supports building the institutional framework and capacity
to address some of the most pressing needs in the road safety sector. It is recognized that to achieve
effective road safety, the approach must be long term and include implementation of coordinated actions in
many different areas. Therefore, this project component should be seen as an initial contribution to a stage
process, including the development of an accident information system and the introduction of various road
engineering preventive measures.
The project component will include:
- 94 -



(a)    Developing an institutional framework that would permit the proper management of road traffic
safety issues.
(b)    Establishing an Accident Information System (AIS) in La Paz and Santa Cruz departments, based
on the selection of the most appropriate internationally available AIS; and
(c)    Establishing a systematic auditing of new or existing roads for the specific purpose of accident
prevention.
Each of these subcomponents includes training and technical assistance and is further developed below.
The agencies responsible for their implementation and the respective estimated costs are shown at the end
of this Annex.
Building Institutional Framework
In order to progress in road safety work it is highly recommended to manage the road safety sector at a
national level. This means that a national strategy should be formulated, action plans elaborated and an
entity established that would be responsible for preparation of the strategy and managing the plan. In order
to secure proper development of this complicated institutional framework it would be appropriate to form a
task group comprising the most concerned stakeholders, including the SNC, the National Police and the
Superintendence for Transport . A consultant that would also provide the necessary training would assist
the Task Group. The Task Group should:
* Study the different alternatives and recommend the most adequate institutional framework to handle
the road safety sector at national level
* Seek a decision and necessary approvals
* Prepare the organizational, legal, procedural and financial arrangements for the NRSC
* Prepare the terms of reference for a consultant to assist the Task Group and provide training
* Follow up on the establishing and initial functioning of the NRSC
During appraisal, agreement was reached on:
*   The appointment, before June 30, 2002, of the Task Group, including its terms of reference (see
attachment) and timetable.
* The submission of the Task Group findings and recommendations before June 30, 2003, and
* Government decision on said recommendations before December 31, 2003
Accident Information System (AIS)
The establishment of an Accident Information System is a vital part of improving road safety as it enables
analyses of the total road safety problem and makes it possible to focus on the main problem areas. Data
from the system will support interventions such as engineering measures, campaigns, education and
ambulance services. The project supports the development and implementation of an AIS in La Paz and
Santa Cruz departments as a first step to develop a national system. It is expected that later on other
prefectures adopt the system. As commitment of the Police is crucial for an accident information system,
the National Police will be responsible for implementing this project subcomponent. The project would
finance the technical assistance, including a training program, as well as the electronic equipment needed.
Special attention will be given to the design of the AIS to ensure the dissemination of information to all
stakeholders. The main activities would be:
- 95 -



a)   Data collection. In order to get an overview of the current situation vis-a-vis the accident data the
consultants will analyze existing data collection practices and reliability and validity of the collected
data. This includes an analysis of data collection practices at relevant agencies such as SNC, the
Police and other Governmental Agencies and the insurance agencies.
b)   Accident Information Systems. Review of existing models of AIS and those currently being used in
other countries, and of state-of-the-art data collection methods. Based on that review and an analysis
of the Bolivian situation, design a data collection process adapted to specific Bolivian conditions.
c)   Decentralization. Decentralization of and how data transmission best can be obtained.
d)   Establishment of Registration Units. Recommend the hardware, software, and data collection
equipment for the establishment of registration units. Determine the expected number of computers
for registering accident information and the procedures for transmission of data. Also, detewmine the
hardware and software needed in each of the registration units.
e)   Manuals. Drafting of manuals, so that future users of the system at any level can get information on
procedures and work methods within his field of work. The manuals as such must also present the
documentation of the system.
f)   Training. Training program to secure that all persons involved in the system are given training
tailored to their needs, responsibilities and to their level. It should include training for the staff at all
registration units in the use of the system comprising hands-on training in managing a computer; in
maintenance and updating of the registration unit; in operating the software; in communication with
the database and in registration of accident information in the system.
Road Safety Audits
Internationally, road safety audit is probably the most important development in delivering safer roads in
recent years. Road safety auditing is a systematic assessment of the safety aspects of road projects. Its
purpose is to make new and reconstructed roads as safe as possible before construction is started. The
project would support development of a manual for undertaking traffic safety audits of road projects, as
well as a training program for staff from SNC, major SEPCAMs and municipalities in the use of the
manual. Furthermore, the project would support the auditing of about 1,000 km of priority national and
urban roads. The following schedule for implementation of the subcomponent activities was reviewed and
agreed during appraisal.
- 96 -



Estimated Costs, Target Dates and Responsibilities for the Road
Safety Components
e  hr7~~~~_____________                           _r Deebe,203200
Institutional Building                 SNC, National Police,
Superintendency of Transport
Technical assistance (26 prof.-                                   December, 2003        240,000
months)
Training                                                          December, 2003        20, 000
Accident InforDat. System             National Police
Technical assistance (24 prof.-                                   December, 2003        360,000
months)
Training                                                          December, 2003        100,000
Equipment                                                         December, 2003        100,000
Road Safety Audits                         SNC
Technical assistance (8 prof.-                                      June, 2003          120,000
months)
Training                                                          December, 2003         60,000
Road audits                                                       December, 2003        300,000
Total                                                                   1 ,300,000
- 97 -



Annex 13
Attachment 1
Principles for Terms of Reference for the Road Safety Task
Group
To consider:
* The current institutional situation at the national level
* Current roles, responsibilities and performance of the road safety stakeholders
* Existing road safety policies
With particular regard to:
* The scale of the road accident problem
* Methods and responsibility for handling accident information
* Road safety auditing
* Road users safety awareness
* Licensing of vehicles and drivers
* Training of people dealing with road safety issues
In doing so to take into account:
* The importance of having a well defined national road safety objective, reflected at the highest
policy level and emphasized by government leadership
* The commitment of administrators, to the national road safety objective, that reflects
performance and accountability
* Different alternatives to establish the most adequate institutional framework
* Financing strategy for functioning of the proposed institutional framework
With the objectives of:
*   Making recommendations to Government regarding the most adequate institutional
framework to reduce the frequency and gravity of road accidents
* Seeking a decision and necessary approvals
* Preparing the organizational, legal, procedural and financial arrangements for the new
organization
* Following up on the establishment and initial functioning of the new organization.
- 98 -



Additional
Annex 14
BOLIVIA: ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Social and Environmental Analysis
Introduction
During project preparation environmental and social evaluations were undertaken of the priority segments
to be rehabilitated under the project: the Calamarca-San Pedro and Boyuibe-Yacuiba roads. This Annex
summarizes the findings of these evaluations and describe the methodologies to be followed under each
component of the project. The relevant detailed reports can be found in the project files and at the
InfoShop.
Rehabilitation of priority segments of the national networkL
Environmental issues. The rehabilitation and repaving works along the selected segments will follow
existing road alignrments and rights-of-way. Initial road construction goes back several years, as follows:
Calamarca-San Pedro in 1960 and Boyuibe-Yacuiba in 1990. These segments were paved in 1990 and
1993, respectively. As such, both segments constitute a well consolidated infrastructure and direct impacts
on natural and social systems are of less importance. There will be no resettlement in any of the segments.
The environmental screening of the proposed segments identified no major or significant impacts whether
direct or indirect. However, there is evidence that there exist localized problems concerning erosion,
flooding and drainage impacts caused by original improper design and construction and the absence of
good environmental practices during maintenance. These impacts will be addressed through the proper
engineering design of the rehabilitation works.
Social assessments. In addition, social assessments were carried out for the two segments. The objectives
of the social assessments were: (a) carry out a general socio-economic diagnosis of the area of influence;
(b) identify and assess the potential positive and adverse impacts from the rehabilitation works; (c) identify
the expectations of the communities related to those works; and (d) recommend actions to enhance the
positive impacts of the subprojects and prevent, mitigate or compensate for the possible adverse impacts.
The methodology consisted of undertaken surveys of a representative sample of households and/or carrying
out workshops and consultations with the relevant stakeholders. In the case of the area of influence of the
Calamarca-San Pedro road, 351 households were interviewed. In the Boyuibe-Yacuiba segment, 22
workshops and consultation meetings were held with authorities, NGOs and local communities. When
necessary, the local languages (Aymara or Quechua) were used during the interviews or consultations. A
brief description of the socio-economic conditions of the each sub-project area follows.
Estudio de Impacto Ambiental del Proyecto de Mantenimiento Periodico del Senkata-San Pedro, Servicio Nacional de
Caminos, Departamento de Medio Ambiente, Mayo de 1999, La Paz, Bolivia; Estudio de Impacto Ambiental por las
Actividades de Mantenimiento Periodico del Tramo Boyuibe-Yacuiba, Servicio Nacional de Caminos, Departamento de
Medio Ambiente, Junio de 2000, La Paz, Bolivia.
Evaluacion del Impacto Social en las Comunidades Indigenas de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera
Boyuibe-Yacuiba, preparado para el Servicio Nacional de Camninos por Argentina Antunez R., Diciembre 2001, La Paz,
Bolivia; Evaluacion del lmpacto Social de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera Boyuibe-Yacuiba, preparado
para el Servicio Nacional de Caninos por Magaly Barba de Matsuzaki, Noviembre 2000, La Paz, Bolivia; Evaluacion del
Impacto Social de las Actividades de Rehabilitaci6n de la Carretera Calamarca-San Pedro, preparado para el Servicio
Nacional de Caminos por Ivonne Farah, et. al. Octubre 2000, La Paz, Bolivia.
- 99 -



Calamarca-San Pedro. This road segment is a key link of the road network that connects the four regions
which concentrate most of the population and economic activities of the country. It is located along the
main corridor for import and export trade. Therefore, this segment has intensive traffic of different levels:
international, national and regional. The road segment has a length of 166 km and was paved in 1960 and
repaved from 1990 to 1993. Because of the lack of appropriate maintenance, the road is substantially
deteriorated. This situation causes accidents and increases transport costs.
The segment Calamnarca-San Pedro crosses the Municipality of Caracollo in the Department of Oruro, and
the Municipalities of Calamarca, Patacamaya, Ayo Ayo and Sica in the Department of La Paz. These
municipalities, combined, have 183.422 inhabitants. Eighty percent of this population is rural. The local
rural communities along the corridor do not identify themselves as indigenous. However, Aymara dialect is
still predominant together with Spanish. The main economic activities are agriculture and cattle raising in
the rural areas and commerce and services in the urban areas. The land presents low yields because of its
poor quality and the large extension of the farms. The road has become an important economic link
facilitating the commerce and services. Health and education indicators are quite low and people have to
travel to regional centers to access these services. Road rehabilitation is seen as a way to improve this
access as well as to regional markets
At national level, the rehabilitation of the road is important for external commerce. At local level, it is
important for the local commerce, the social relationships and for the access to social services, specially
health service.
Boyuibe-Yacuiba. The road was paved in the 1990s and is 180 km long. Due to the lack of maintenance,
the road has deteriorated currently. In addition, there are technical problems with the sewers which causes
flooding of some plots and interruption of water streams. The segment crosses the Departments of Tarija
and Chuquisaca, and is a continuation of the Abapo-Camiri road on the corridor from Santa Cruz to the
Bolivian borders with Argentina and Paraguay. It includes 4 urban centers, 19 rural communities and 2
indigenous areas.
According to the census of 1997, there are 76.191 inhabitants in the area of influence of the road. Eighty
five per cent of them live in towns. Immigration to the area is quite high and most of the residents in urban
centers have migrated from other regions of Bolivia looking for new opportunities. Commerce and services
are the main economic activities. Boyuibe is the most important commerce center in the region and plays an
important role for the relationships of Bolivia and the neighboring areas of Argentina and Paraguay.
Agriculture and cattle raising are the main economic activities in the rural areas. The main social services
are provided in the towns. For that reason, the road plays an important role in the access of these services.
Regarding social organizations, the Organizaciones Territoriales de Base(OTBs) are the most important
representatives of the rural communities. In these organizations participate peasants and indigenous. In
the urban areas, the Comite Civicosbind the different civil society organizations.
Opinion and expectationsfrom population with the rehabilitation works In all the segments to be
rehabilitated there exists the consensus about the need to advance with the rehabilitation of the roads and
ample acceptance of the related works. The inhabitants expect that the rehabilitation works will bring
employment during the construction phase. In the segment Boyuibe - Yacuiba, the inhabitants are also
expecting that the technical problems related to drainage--that often damage the neighboring agricultural
lots--are solved. They also expect coordination and communication with the contractors in order to avoid
problems and solve those that may come up during the construction period. In this respect, the social
assessments identified some concerns from the communities stemming from the lack of strict guidelines for
- 100-



contractors regarding: camp location and management, community relations, dust control during
construction, traffic and pedestrian safety from the lack of proper signals and lack of speed controls in
urban centers.
Indigenous Peoples
In the segment Boyuiba-Yacuiba, two indigenous communities--the Guarani y the Weenhayek--live nearby.
A social evaluation focused on indigenous people's issues was carried out along this segment, with meetings
held with I I indigenous communities, some in areas far from the road. Then a detailed study of the
communities in the area of influence of the road was undertaken, carrying out further consultations with
these communities about the rehabilitation works.
There are 4 communities of the Guarani people: Tiguipa Pueblo, Nancaroiza Estaci6n, San Antonio de
Padua y San Franciso de Inti. All these communities are mixed communities composed of indigenous
people, "criollos" and immigrants, with an average of 550 inhabitants per community. In the first three
communities, land tenure is collective and in the last one is individual. (In the latter, only about 10% of the
population is indigenous). The main economic activity of these communities is agriculture and cattle
raising, with the road playing a critical role in the commercialization of the products of these comnmunities,
and for facilitating access to health services. During the consultations held with these communities, the
population expressed the importance of the road to these communities and therefore stated that its
rehabilitation and proper maintenance is paramount for improving the livelihood of their communities.
Regarding negative impacts, in Tiguipa Pueblo and San Francisco de Inti, the communities expressed the
problem of the pedestrian crossings over the road, particularly in Tiguipa where the school is located to the
other side of the road and the children must cross the road during school days. In San Antonio de Padua,
the population requested improvements to the drainage system as deficiencies in this system produces
inundations to the nearby lots and the fencing of these lots and adequate signalization to prevent accidents.
There are two communities of the Weenhayek people: Tuntey y San Antonio de Tunteya. The first is
located on the left embankment of the Pilcomayo River, at around 300 meters from the road. The second
has 97 inhabitants. Albeit the Government approved in 1993 the legal ownership of 195,639 hectares to
the 20 Weenhayek communities in the region, still to be finalized remain the "tirmites de saneamiento" and
the Decree that titles the land, respecting the ownership and settlements that existed before its
promulgation. Because of this, part of the land is occupied by third parties and the living conditions are
precarious. The main economic activities are fishing and articrafts, being the road a key link for the
commercialization of the products and access to health services. Since 1995 the communities are organized
around the "Capitanias Weenhayek and Tapieta". During the meetings and consultations held as part of
the social assessment, the communities expressed they complete agreement with the rehabilitation works
and requested that the drainage problems are solved, that fences are installed in the lots near the road, and
that the asphalt plants are not located close to the communities.
Environmental and Social Management Plans
In order to address the above concerns, the rehabilitation works will comply with strict environmental rules,
including: (i) a set of environmental guidelines for contractors that have been approved by SNC (explained
below) and which are part of all bidding documents and contracts; (ii) a set of site specific environmental
measures stemming from the environmental screening exercises and the social assessments, which will also
be included in bidding documents and contracts; (iii) enforcing the above requirements though specific
environmental duties and reporting requirements by the supervision engineer; and (iv) design and implement
a Social Action Plan for the rehabilitation of the two segments. Additionally, an Indigenous People
- 101 -



Development Plan will be implemented.
The Social Action Plan will be implemented by specialist in social sciences to be hired by SNC (with local
knowledge of customs and language) for each segment and enforced through a Coordinating Committee:
SNC's technical and social staff, one representative of the contractor, and representatives from the local
communities. Components of the social management plan include:
*      Information to local organizations, communities authorities about project activities and schedule,
and location of camps
*      Employment generation: mechanism to ensure proper hiring and compensation for local people
*      Environmental training and social sensitivity raising exercises for work crews
*      Mechanisms to ensure proper compensation for access to lots (burrow pits, camps, temporary
camps, etc.) and for payments from damages related to construction activities.
*      Signals and accident control in critical areas as well as safety road training
In the Boyuibe-Yacuiba segment, the drainage problems will be solved through the appropriate design of
the rehabilitation works and road safety signalization (including ) will be built in the proximity of the
communities along the segment right-of-way.
The Social Action Plan is estimated to cost US$300,000 (for both the Calamarca-San Pedro and the
Boyuibe-Yacuiba areas). This amount will be financed with local counterpart resources.
The Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP) includes two components: organizational strengthening
and training on rights and management of their territories. The implementation of this plan is estimated to
cost US$250,000. This amount will also be covered with local counterpart resources.
The IPDP focuses on the organizational strengthening of the indigenous population since the creation of
specific organizations are indispensable to enhance their access to the available resources from different
national and intemational funds. Special attention will be paid to coordinate efforts with the other related
IDA-financed initiatives under implementation, namely the Participatory Rural Investment Project (Credit
3065-BO) and the Indigenous Peoples Development Project (Credit 347 1-BO).
Furthermore, the Abap6-Camiri Highway Project is being executed currently. This project also includes an
Indigenous People Development Plan. Taking into account that the segment Boyuibe-Yacuiba segment
represents a continuation of the Abap6-Camiri road, on the corridor from Santa Cruz to the Bolivia border
with Argentina, consideration will be given to extend the IPDP of the Abap6-Camiri to include the
indigenous population of the Boyuibe-Yacuiba segment.
Pilot of rehabilitation of secondary (prefectural) feeder roads
Around 200 km of feeder roads will be rehabilitated in the project in order to increase the benefits from the
rehabilitation of the two main segments. Most rehabilitation works will include drainage improvements,
regravelling and erosion control. Therefore no significant environmental impacts are to be expected. In
addition to complying with the environmental guidelines for contractors, each road segment will be
screened for environmental and social issues. The screening criteria and procedures have been prepared by
the SNC and approved by the Bank and are available in project files. Carrying out such screening exercise
will be a condition of eligibility for proposed (feeder) secondary roads. The project will also include
dissemination and training activities on the proposed screening methodology. In addition, road eligibility
- 102-



criteria will include aspects such as population density and beneficiaries, availability and access to
education and health services by local communities, and local commercialization means.
Road maintenance
The environmental manual for contractors includes specific guidelines regarding practices for road
maintenance. Based on these guidelines, SNC has prepared guidelines for maintenance microenterprises in
simpler language and tailored to the needs of these microenterprises. These guidelines are also available in
project files. The project will include activities for disseminating and training these guidelines among
microentreprises and contractors.
Environmental and social management capacity in SNC
SNC has institutionalized the social and environmental management functions within its structure through
the creation of an socio-environmental management unit (Gerencia Socio-Ambiental) depending directly
from its Executive President. Although environmental management capacity still remains weak because of
the lack of continuity, the project will strengthen the capacity of this department to address environmental
and social issues in the sector. The strengthening program will include (i) technical assistance especially for
the assessment and management of social issues; (ii) training; (iii) equipment; and (iv) publication and
dissemination of environmental guidelines. In addition to other sector duties, for the proposed project, the
Socio-Environmental Department will be in charge of (i) ensuring that appropriate environmental and
social language is included in all bidding documents and contracts; (ii) ensuring compliance with the
environmental manual for contractors and its enforcement by supervision engineers; (iii) ensuring that
environmental and social screening procedures are applied to all proposed feeder roads; (iii) disseminating
and training appropriate agencies, contractors and microenterprises regarding environmental manuals for
road maintenance; and (iv) implementing the strengthening program for the unit itself.
Environmental guidelines for contractors
An environmental manual for Road Contractors has been prepared and adopted by SNC ("Manual
Ambiental para la Construcci6n de Carreteras", SNC, 2000, La Paz, Bolivia). A copy of the manual has
been sent to the Infoshop and is available in project files. This manual establishes specific rules for
minimizing environmental impacts during road construction and maintenance. Examples of the topics
included in the manual are: (i) applicable environmental and natural resource legislation; (ii) explicit
prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work crews; (iii) proper selection and management
of burrow pits and quarries, gravel extraction along rivers, and other sources of materials; (iv) selection of
camp sites and management of vamp wastes; (v) location and management of asphalt plants; (vi) proper
disposal of wastes from construction machinery and equipment; (vii) proper disposal of excess materials
from cuts and excavations; (ix) slope stabilization and erosion control; (x) drainage infrastructure and
management of water along the right of way.
Other environmental and social measures
All studies for new sub-projects financed by the project will include the application of environmental and
social screening criteria and procedures. The studies will be applied to roads for which the right-of-way
already exists. Cost estimates and bidding documents stemming from these studies will include
environmental and social mitigating measures. The road safety components will promote community
participation in the identification of critical areas thus ensuring ownership of proposed safety measures.
-103-



The following table summarizes the environmental and social management plan for the Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project.
Component                  Social and environmental requirements
Rehabilitation of priority  * Environmental guidelines for contractors included in bidding documents and contracts
segments                  * Site specific environmental requirements included in bidding documents and contracts
* Enforcement of all environmental and social requirement by supervision engineer
* Overall supervision by environmental unit of SNC
* Design and implementation of social action and indigenous people development plans,
and creation of social committee in all segments
Secondary roads           * Environmental and social screening criteria and procedures for all roads as condition
of eligibility
* Environmental guidelines for contractors included in biding documents and contracts
* Enforcement of environmental requirements by supervision engineer
* Overall supervision by SNC's Socio-Environmental Unit
* Dissemination and training on screening criteria and procedures by the Socio-
Environmental Unit
Road maintenance          * Environmental manual for road maintenance tailored to contractors' and
microentreprises' characteristics and requirements
* Dissemination and training on maintenance manual for contractors and
microenterprises by the Socio-Environmental Unit
Environmental management  * Strengthening environmental and social management capacity in SNC: (i) technical
capacity in SNC             assistance; (ii) training; and (iii) publication and dissemination of manuals.
Pre-investment studies for  * Application of environmental and social screening criteria and procedures. Cost
other road projects         estimates include environmental and social assessment studies, to comply with IDA
safeguards policies.
- 104-



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31797
68-                    66-                    64-                    62,  BOLIVIA          60'                         101-
-10,     B R A Z I L                                                      ROAD REHABILITATION AND
MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Nace6e                                      KEY ENGINEERING COMPONENTS
0                                                       REHABILITATION WORKS ON NATIONAL NETWORK
PREFECTURES PARTICIPATING IN PILOT OF REHABILITATION
u w-,.0                                                                                                        12-
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (FIRST YEARI
0                                      MAiN ROADS
San'                                                 MAIN RAILROADS
LU                                                          7- 'Oiagdaleno                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
ibimad.d,                                     j          y-                                             DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
LL                                                                           14-
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
0                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
B R A Z I L
I! sc ma                                                                                                                      16'-
-a                                                                                                                 To
Cc.p6n    San                        Brasilia
Hua,.na                                        Rio
-0                                                                       Jo
Lo Po z %
'3                                                                     San Rafael
Pto. Vill roe[
_N.ocha
A N T A
to negas
Palac-maio    co(!     abo                                                                                     2
Epizano                                                                          \;"E"
Orur                                   C> P.13,3                                                   osto, Coraz6n
Ro6or6
Tomb                                                                                                                      er
R U R 0
Puerto
wabuco' f
muto     ao
/(Sari
Polosi's,
d.0
20'-
(Mulato
n                        S"j, P",    Uy)u
PARAGUAY
To Asunci6n
a., I Poranaqu6
El P.,,.
iguana                                                                            60.
TO
Antofagas                       Tupizip I,
22'-                        P.a. Velb.
B R AjZ     I L
PERu
Lima
1                   I Area
loimop
a 6L I I A
C H I L E
A R G E N T I N A
rb.1 "3P  --O. P,Od,cedbl 11'E 'i0P1)e;-Q:1  rhe
rle         :clor:
CJILE
zi rFe              O'.
I-7,
.3 E N I I N
L
MARCH 2002



