Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3630-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 23, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3630-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower’s Law No. 1788 of September 16, 1997 (Law No. 1788) provides 
that the planning, construction, maintenance and administration of the Borrower’s national 
highway system are the responsibility of the Borrower’s National Roads Agency (
Servicio 
Nacional de Caminos
 - SNC);
(C)
the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 25134 of August 31, 1998 (Decree No. 
25134) establishes the Borrower’s national highway system, comprising a fundamental road 
network (the National Road Network), a departmental and municipal road network (the 
Secondary Road Network), and a road maintenance national account (
Cuenta Nacional de 
Conservación Vial
 – CNCV);
(D)
the Borrower’s Law No. 2064 of April 3, 2000 (Law No. 2064) provides the 
institutional framework for the operations SNC, including the rules and procedures for the 
nomination of the Executive President and the Board of Directors of SNC; 
(E)
the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 26336 of September 29, 2001 (Decree No. 
26336) establishes the organizational structure of SNC, including the framework for SNC 
internal operating procedures and the sustainable allocation of resources for road maintenance 
through CNCV;
(F)
the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 26487 of January 23, 2002 (Decree No. 
26487) allocates an increasing percentage of the revenues collected from taxes on fuel 
consumption to CNCV;
(G)
the Association has received a letter dated February 21, 2002 from the Borrower 
describing the Borrower’s road rehabilitation and maintenance program for the period 2002 to 
2006 (the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program), including the Borrower’s 
contributions to CNCV;
(H)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) a 
loan (the NDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to approximately seven million dollars 
($7,000,000) to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the NDF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and NDF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  3
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Road Maintenance and Resurfacing Program” means any of the 
programs referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(b)
“ARI” means 
Acuerdo de Reforma Institucional
, an institutional reform 
agreement to be entered into between SNC, MDE, MH and UTPRI (all as hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement (Institutional Reform Project) 
between the Borrower and the Association dated June 17, 1999 (as amended);
(c)
“Disbursement Letter” means the letter from the Association to the Borrower of 
even date herewith setting forth the procedures for the withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit;
(d)
“Environmental Manual” means the environmental manual for Project 
implementation dated November 2000, including the rules and procedures applicable to: (i) road 
contractors and works sites for the rehabilitation of priority segments of the National Road 
Network under Part A of the Project; (ii) rapid environmental screening of Subprojects for the 
rehabilitation of priority segments of the Secondary Road Network under Part B of the Project; 
(iii) road maintenance and resurfacing by contractors and micro-enterprises under Part C of the 
Project; and (iv) SNC’s environmental strengthening program;
(e)
“Fiscal Account” means the account, determined by MH (as hereinafter defined), 
referred to in Section 3.16 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences on January 1 
and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
(g)
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” means the indigenous peoples 
development plan for Project implementation dated February 27, 2002;
(i)
“MDE” means 
Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico
, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economic Development;
(j)
“MH” means 
Ministerio de Hacienda
, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
Page  4
(k)
“Non-Project Road” means any road in the Project Area (as hereinafter defined) 
that is not a Project Road (as hereinafter defined);
(l)
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual referred to in Section 3.08 
(a) of this Agreement;
(m)
“Participating Prefecture” means a Prefecture (as hereinafter defined) selected to 
participate in Project implementation in accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual;
(n)
“Performance Indicators” means the Project performance indicators set forth in 
the letter from the Borrower to the Association of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter);
(o)
“PNB” means 
Policía Nacional de Bolivia
, the Borrower’s National Police 
Department; 
(p)
“PNB Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.05 
of this Agreement;
(q)
“Prefecture” means any of the departmental administrations in the Project Area;
(r)
“Prefecture Participation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(s)
“Procurement Improvement Action Plan” means SNC’s action plan for 
procurement under the Project dated March 6, 2002;
(t)
“Project Area” means the area of the Borrower’s departments of Chuquisaca, La 
Paz, Oruro, and Tarija, and any other department which may be acceptable to the Association in 
addition to, or in substitution of, the above departments;
(u)
“Project Road” means any road within the National Road Network or the 
Secondary Road Network to be rehabilitated, maintained or resurfaced under Parts A, B or C of 
the Project;
(v)
“SEPCAM” means a 
Servicio Prefectural de Caminos
, a Prefecture Road 
Agency;
(w)
“SEPCAM Institutional Reform Plan” means any of the plans referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(x)
“SNC Institutional Reform Plan” means SNC’s institutional reform plan 
undertaken pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 26336 and the ARI;
(y)
“SNC Organizational Manual” means 
Manual de Funciones de SNC
, the 
organizational manual of SNC to be issued pursuant to the SNC Institutional Reform Plan;
(z)
“Social Action Plan” means the social action plan for Project implementation 
dated February 27, 2002;
Page  5
(aa)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(bb)
“Subproject” means any of the investment subprojects referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) (ii) (A) of this Agreement;
(cc)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(dd)
“Transport Master Plan” means the VMT’s (as hereinafter defined) plan to 
establish transport priorities in the Borrower’s territory dated November 2000;
(ee)
“UCP” means 
Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos
, the Project coordinating unit 
within SNC;
(ff)
“UTPRI” means 
Unidad Técnica del Proyecto de Reforma Institucional
, the 
Technical Unit of the Institutional Reform Project; and
(gg)
“VMT” means
 Viceministerio de Transporte
, the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of 
Transportation.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed a reference to SNC.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to sixty-two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR62,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
Page  6
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each August 15 and 
February 15 commencing on August 15, 2012  and ending February 15, 2037.  Each installment 
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2022 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and 
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
Page  7
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Executive President of SNC is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions
.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
and to this end shall carry out the Project through SNC, with the participation of Participating 
Prefectures (in respect of Part B of the Project) and PNB (in respect of Part D.1 of the Project), 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, managerial, 
technical, financial, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower (through SNC) shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) 
the Environmental Manual; (ii) the Social Action Plan; (iii) the Indigenous Peoples Development 
Plan; (iv) the Procurement Improvement Action Plan (v) SNC Institutional Reform Plan; and (vi) 
the Operational Manual (see Section 3.08 below). If any provision of the Environmental Manual, 
the Social Action Plan, the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, the Procurement Improvement 
Action Plan or SNC Institutional Reform Plan is inconsistent with a provision of this Agreement, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  8
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to SNC 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SNC, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) With regard to Part B of the Project, the Borrower (through SNC) shall 
enter into agreements with each Participating Prefecture, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, for the purposes of ensuring the participation of each such Participating 
Prefecture in the implementation of such Part of the Project, such agreements to provide:
(i)
the obligation of Participating Prefectures to develop and implement 
institutional reform plans, for purposes of strengthening their respective 
SEPCAM’s capacity to manage the Secondary Road Network within 
their respective jurisdictions and improve the condition of transport 
services, including the preparation of transport plans and road 
inventories, and the exchange of information on the overall performance 
of such SEPCAMs; and
(ii)
the following obligations of SNC:
(A)
to select investment subprojects for the financing of 
rehabilitation of Project Roads, or sections thereof, within the 
Project Area and to ensure adequate transitability and access, all 
in accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual;
(B)
to inform the SEPCAMs of the Participating Prefectures about 
Project-financed activities;
(C)
to provide technical assistance to the SEPCAMS of the 
Participating Prefectures for their institutional strengthening in 
roads management;
(D)
to monitor compliance with relevant procedures and eligibility 
criteria; and 
(E)
to evaluate jointly with the Participating Prefectures the results 
of Project activities;
(iii)
for the close coordination between SNC and Participating Prefectures for 
the selection of Project Roads, the identification and evaluation of 
Subprojects, and the execution of the works and services contracts under 
such Subprojects, all as prescribed in the Operational Manual.
(b)
Prior to the approval of any proposed Subproject, the Borrower (through SNC) 
Page  9
shall apply the environmental and social assessment procedures and eligibility criteria prescribed 
in the Environmental Manual, the Social Action Plan and the Indigenous Peoples Development 
Plan in order to:
(i)
carry out an environmental and social screening and assessment of such 
proposed Subproject; and
(ii)
prepare recommendations for prevention, mitigation and remediation of 
any potential environmental and social negative impact arising from the 
implementation of such proposed Subproject.
(c)
During the implementation of any Subproject, the Borrower, through SNC, shall 
ensure that the Participating Prefectures carry out the recommendations referred to in paragraph 
(b) (ii) above as prescribed in the Environmental Manual, the Social Action Plan and the 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
(d)
Without limitation or restriction to any of the Association's rights under this 
Agreement, in the event that any Participating Prefecture fails to perform any of its obligations 
under the applicable Prefecture Participation Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association, 
the Borrower, through SNC, shall:
(i)
not include in any proposed road maintenance and resurfacing program 
activities within the jurisdiction, or for the benefit, of the SEPCAM of 
such Participating Prefecture until such Participating Prefecture has 
taken corrective action to the satisfaction of SNC and the Association; 
and
(ii)
exclude from the applicable road maintenance and resurfacing program 
activities within the jurisdiction, or for the benefit, of the SEPCAM of 
such Participating Prefecture, other than the activities for which the 
contracting of works or services has been finalized pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. With regard to Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower (through SNC) shall 
enter into an agreement with PNB, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for 
the purposes of ensuring the participation of PNB in the implementation of such Part of the 
Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement, any Prefecture Participation Agreement, and the PNB 
Participation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any Prefecture Participation Agreement or the PNB Participation 
Page  10
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. (a) At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower (through 
SNC) shall maintain UCP, with structure and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, 
including the following responsibilities: 
(i)
coordinating Project interventions with other agencies of the Borrower 
(in particular the technical and administrative units of SNC) and civil 
society representatives at the national level;
(ii)
maintaining the Project impact monitoring system; and
(iii)
monitoring compliance by Participating Prefectures with appropriate 
procedures and eligibility criteria for Subprojects.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that UCP is staffed, at all times during the execution 
of the Project, by core professional staff in numbers and with experience and qualifications 
acceptable to the Association, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and selected in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, all as prescribed in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the terms of Section 3.01(b) above, the Borrower, 
through SNC, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory 
to the Association, said manual to provide the rules and procedures for the implementation of the 
Project, in the areas of:
(i)
Project institutional setup, including organization and functions of SNC;
(ii)
disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures;
(iii)
procurement responsibilities, processes and internal controls;
(iv)
monitoring and evaluation plans for the Project;
(v)
procedures and eligibility criteria for Subprojects, including maximum 
rehabilitation 
cost per kilometer, specific institutional requirements, and 
socio-economic criteria; 
and
(vi)
procedures for identification, preparation, approval, execution and 
supervision of 
Subprojects, including environmental assessment 
procedures and guidelines, and a 
list of non-eligible works.
(b)
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a provision of 
Page  11
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Section 3.09.  (a) The Borrower, through SNC, shall not later than October 31 of each 
year of Project implementation, starting in 2002, prepare and furnish to the Association an 
annual road maintenance and resurfacing program for the following calendar year, such program 
to specify: 
the Borrower’s contributions to CNCV;
the activities to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
respective calendar year in the Project Area;
the implementation schedule and SNC’s budget proposal for such 
activities; 
the portion of the National Road Network to be maintained through 
contracts with micro-enterprises; 
expected productivity targets in the maintenance of the National Road 
Network; and 
upon the Association’s request, information on the rehabilitation and 
maintenance activities that SNC intends to undertake in the Project Area 
with its own resources in Non-Project Roads that are critical because of 
their integration with Project Roads; and
carry out such Annual Road Maintenance and Resurfacing Program in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through SNC, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than March 31 and October 31 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in 2003, furnish to the Association progress reports on the execution of the Project 
during the preceding calendar semester, of such scope and in such detail as the Association may 
reasonably request, including, inter alia:
(i)
information on the progress in the execution of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
status of the allocation and utilization of the proceeds of the Credit;
(iii)
achievement of the Performance Indicators;
(iv)
updated implementation and disbursement schedules for the subsequent 
Page  12
calendar semester; and
(v)
compliance of Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement and, 
whenever necessary, action plans proposed to ensure such compliance.
Section 3.11. The Borrower through SNC, shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 2003, 
prepare and furnish to the Association (for its review and approval) a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association may reasonably request, on the progress of the Annual Road 
Maintenance and Resurfacing Program for the preceding calendar year, including, inter alia: 
(i)
expenditures incurred in the maintenance of the National Road Network;
(ii)
allocation and utilization of CNCV resources by type of maintenance 
contract;
(iii)
productivity targets in the maintenance of the National Road Network by 
type of maintenance contract;
(iv)
results of SNC’s rating of the condition of the national trunk roads; and
(v)
operational and financial performance of SNC, together with an action 
plan to 
address identified shortcomings; and
(b)
not later than June 30 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 2003, 
publish and disseminate the report referred to in paragraph (a) above, as approved by the 
Association.
Section 3.12. The Borrower, through SNC, shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 2003, 
hold a Project annual review with the Association, such review to be based on the reports 
referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on:
(i)
progress in the execution of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(ii)
performance of SNC and Participating Prefectures;
(iii)
progress in the implementation of Part E of the Project, including 
compliance by Participating Prefectures with SEPCAM Institutional 
Reform Plans;
(iv)
experience with the rules and procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and
(v)
justification of the investment and institutional proposals for the 
implementation of the Project during the subsequent year; 
Page  13
(b)
in respect of the review to be held not later than March 31, 2004, and with the 
participation of representatives of NDF, MDE, MH, VMT, Participating Prefectures and other 
stakeholders, focus on the following matters in addition to those mentioned in paragraph (a) 
above:
(i)
operation of CNCV for the maintenance of the National Road Network;
(ii)
adequacy of the funding for, and management of, maintenance of the 
National Road Network under CNCV;
(iii)
adequacy of the alternative contractual mechanisms for undertaking the 
maintenance of the National Road Network;
(iv)
assessment of the changes in the stock and conditions of the Borrower’s 
National Road Network assets; and
(v)
overall evaluation of the implementation of the Project; and
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Association shall have reasonably 
determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of the 
objectives thereof is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken all such remedial action, 
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or 
the timely achievement of its objectives.
Section 3.13. The Borrower, through SNC, shall:
(a)
not later than December 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 
2003, contract technical audits for the preceding calendar year of Project implementation, with 
independent auditors of experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association operating 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, such audits to focus on the operation of 
CNCV, including achievement of physical targets, quality and cost of the civil works, and 
compliance with the Operational Manual, the Environmental Manual, the Social Action Plan, and 
the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan;
(b)
not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, furnish to the 
Association the report of such audits by said auditors; and
(c)
not later than June 30 of each year of Project implementation, discuss the results 
of such audits with representatives of NDF, MDE, MH, VMT, and other stakeholders, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon.
Section 3.14. The Borrower, through SNC, shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 2004, start an assessment of overall Project impact, 
such assessment to be conducted with the assistance of independent consultants of experience 
Page  14
and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, operating under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association;
(b)
not later than June 30, 2005 furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, the findings and recommendations of such assessment; and
(c)
not later than October 31, 2005 discuss the results of such assessment with 
representatives of NDF, MDE, MH, VMT, Participating Prefectures and other stakeholders, 
taking into account the Association’s comments thereon.
Section 3.15. With regard to Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower (through SNC) shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 2002, appoint a road safety task group, with membership 
structure, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, to study different 
alternatives and recommend the most adequate institutional framework to manage road safety 
issues in the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
not later than June 30, 2003, furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, the recommendations of the road safety task group referred to in paragraph (a) above; 
and
(c)
not later that December 31, 2003, implement the recommendations of the road 
safety task group referred to in paragraph (b) above, taking into account the Association’s 
comments thereon.
Section 3.16. The Borrower, through SNC, shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project a fiscal account, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
deposit into the Fiscal Account, at the beginning of each month during the 
execution of the Project, the counterpart funding required for payments to be made during that 
month in respect of expenditures on account of goods, works or services procured or to be 
procured under the Project.
Section 3.17. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower (through SNC) shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the continued 
achievement of Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Page  15
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SNC to maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause SNC to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including as part of the information to be provided in each such report a 
management letter concerning SNC’s internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of FMRs or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one (1) year after the Association has received the audit report for the 
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall:
Page  16
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the FMRs or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.10 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SNC to prepare and furnish 
to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
Page  17
(a)
Law No. 1788 or Supreme Decree No. 25134 or Law No. 2064 or Supreme 
Decree No. 26336 or Supreme Decree No. 26487 shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Association, the ability of the Borrower or SNC to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program or any Annual Road Maintenance and 
Resurfacing Program will be carried out;
(c)
the NDF Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by not later than 
December 31, 2002 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources 
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; 
and
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the NDF 
Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the NDF Loan 
Agreement; or
(B)
the NDF Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under the NDF Loan Agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
Page  18
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower shall have issued regulations, satisfactory to the Association, 
for the operation of CNCV;
(b)
that the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory 
to the Association, about the progress in carrying out the SNC Institutional Reform Plan;
(c)
that the Borrower shall have issued SNC Organizational Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
that the Borrower shall have issued the Operational Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)
that arrangements to generate FMRs, satisfactory to the Association, shall have 
been established by SNC and become operational.
Section 6.02. The date July 22, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Page  19
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
FINANZA
(5912) 239-2891
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in La Paz, 
Bolivia as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jacques Trigo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John L. Newman
Authorized Representative
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  20
Part A
: General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be financed
(1)
Civil works
(a) Under Part A of the
21,150,000
80%
      Project
(b) Under Part B of the
3,220,000
80%
      Project
(c) Under Part C.2 of the
27,510,000
80% until
      Project
withdrawals under
this Category have
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent
to SDRs 8,000,000;
60% until
withdrawals
under this Category
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDRs 16,000,000;
and
30% thereafter
(2)
Consultants’
services and training
(a) Under Parts D.1, D.2,  
3,480,000
80%
      D.3 (a), D.4 and D.5
of the 
Project
(b) Under Part E of the
650,000
80%
      Project
(3)
Goods
113,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
Page  21
(4)
Unallocated
5,877,000
TOTAL
62,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
“training” means reasonable expenditures incurred by SNC, Participating 
Prefectures and VMT in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including: (i) the travel cost and per diem of trainers and trainees; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
and (iii) training materials.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR4,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories 1 through 3 of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months before the date of this 
Agreement but after May 1, 2002; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (b) and 3 of the table in Part 
A.1 of this Schedule for the benefit of a Participating Prefecture, unless the respective Prefecture 
Participation Agreement has been executed and delivered and is legally binding upon the parties 
thereto.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works, goods and services as set forth in 
the Disbursement Letter.
Part B
: Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in 
Banco Central de Bolivia
, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, 
and withdrawals from, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
this Part B and the procedures set forth in the Disbursement Letter.
2.
(a)
For the purposes of this Part B, the terms:
(i)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 3 of the table set forth 
in Part 
A.1 of this Schedule; and
Page  22
(ii)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
Eligible Categories.
(b)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. If the 
Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account was made for an 
expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, the Association may require the deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so determine, require the refund to the 
Association) of an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
if, at any time:
(a)
the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; and
(b)
the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant 
to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made 
and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower 
of its determination.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve transitability and accessibility of key 
segments of the National Road Network and the Secondary Road Network; and (b) to strengthen 
the Borrower’s institutional capacity to manage road assets.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Rehabilitation of the National Road Network
Rehabilitation of approximately 353 kilometers of key segments of the National Road 
Page  23
Network in the Project Area, including the roads between:
1.
Calamarca and San Pedro, on the main road between La Paz and Oruro; and
2. 
Boyuibe and Yacuiba, on the main road between Santa Cruz and Yacuiba.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of the Secondary Road Network
Rehabilitation of approximately 200 kilometers of key segments of the Secondary Road 
Network in the Project Area.
Part C:
Routine Maintenance and Resurfacing of the National Road Network
1.
Routine maintenance of the National Road Network through use of CNCV.
2.
Resurfacing of key segments of the National Road Network through use of CNCV.
Part D:
Technical Assistance
1.
Development of a road safety initiative to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to respond 
to and reduce road accidents.
2.
Carrying out of pre-investment studies to support the preparation of technical, social and 
environmental studies under the Transport Master Plan.
3.
Supervision of the civil works financed under: (a) Parts A and B of the Project; and (b) 
Part C of the Project.
4.
Carrying out of the Project’s technical and financial audits pursuant to Sections 3.13, 
4.01 (b) (i), and 4.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement.
5.
Carrying out of the Project’s impact assessment pursuant to Section 3.14 of this 
Agreement.
Part E
:
Institutional Development
1.
Consolidation of the institutional reform of SNC and Participating Prefectures, including 
in the areas of: (a) procurement and contracting practices; and (b) maintenance and investment 
programming systems.
2.
Development of alternative mechanisms for carrying out road maintenance activities 
Page  24
through micro-enterprises or performance-based contracts.
3.
Development of information management systems to strengthen the financial 
accountability and contract management capacity of SNC.
4.
Development of the Borrower’s roads users’ charges policies, and strengthening of the 
evaluation capacity of VMT and SNC with respect to CNCV.
5.
Provision of training to VMT, SNC and Participating Prefectures.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
Guidelines
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines), as such Guidelines may be revised by the Bank from time to time; and (b) the 
applicable provisions of this Schedule.
2.
Grouping of Contracts
(a)
Contracts for goods and works shall be packaged in sizes adequate to attract 
maximum competition and to ensure economy and efficiency in the procurement process. 
Contracts shall not be divided into smaller units in order to make them less appropriate for 
competitive procedures. Any proposal to divide a contract into smaller packages shall require the 
prior approval of the Association.
(b)
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) contracts for works shall 
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or more each.
3.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Standard documents
Page  25
In the procurement of goods or works under NCB, S(I/N) and PSW (as hereinafter 
defined) the Borrower shall use standard documents acceptable to the Association.
Section II
: 
Employment of Consultants
Consultant Guidelines
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), as such Consultant Guidelines may be revised by 
the Bank from time to time; and (b) the applicable provisions of this Schedule.
Section III
.
Records and audits
1.
Records
(a)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained Procurement Records (as hereinafter 
defined) adequate to reflect in accordance with sound procurement 
practices (including related supervision, review and auditing) the 
procurement activities of SNC; and
(ii)
ensure that all such Procurement Records evidencing such procurement 
activities are retained until at least two (2) years after the Closing Date.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, the term “Procurement Records” means:
(i)
with respect to procurement of goods and works: public notices of 
bidding opportunities; bidding documents and addenda; bid opening 
information; bid evaluation reports; formal appeals by bidders and 
outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; records on claims 
and dispute resolution; and records of time taken to complete key steps 
in the process; and
(ii)
with respect to selection of consultants: public notices for expressions of 
interest; requests for proposals and addenda; technical and final 
evaluation reports; formal appeals by firms and related outcomes; signed 
contracts, addenda and amendments; records on claims and dispute 
resolution; and records of time taken to complete key steps in the 
process.
2.
Audits
:
The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Procurement Records audited annually, in accordance with 
internationally accepted procurement standards consistently applied, by independent 
procurement experts acceptable to the Association;
Page  26
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case no later than six 
(6) months after the end of each calendar year of Project implementation, the report of said audit, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Association such other 
information concerning said audit, as the Association may reasonably request.
Section IV.
Review of Procurement Action
1.
Prior to the issuance of: (a) any invitations to bid for goods or works; or (b) any requests 
for proposals to consultants, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association by SNC, for the Association review and approval in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 1 of Appendixes 1 to the Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works, and selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association (the Procurement Plan), and with the provisions of said paragraphs.
2.
Not later than June 1st and December 1st of each year of Project implementation, the 
Borrower (through SNC) shall furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, a detailed 
update of the Procurement Plan for the upcoming calendar semester.  Such update shall include: 
(a) a firm list of contracts to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester and a tentative list of 
contracts to be procured in the subsequent semester; (b) estimated contract costs; (c) schedule for 
bidding; and (d) particular methods of procurement of goods and works, and selection of 
consultants.
3.
The Borrower shall arrange the publication of a summary of the Procurement Plan and 
any update thereof in the UN Development Business Magazine*
*
See footnote 19 to paragraph 2.7 of 
the Guidelines.
.
4.
The Borrower and the Association shall meet from time to time to review progress in the 
implementation of the Procurement Plan.
5.
Any modification to the Procurement Plan shall require the Association’s prior review 
and approval.
Section V
.
Specific Provisions for Procurement of Goods and Works, and Employment of 
Consultants
Procurement item 
as per 
Procurement 
Plan
Contract Value 
(Threshold)
Procurement 
Method
Association Review
1. 
Civil Works
$3,000,000 
equivalent or more
ICB
Prior Review: Each contract
Less than 
$3,000,000 
equivalent but 
more than 
$250,000 
NCB
Prior Review: Each contract 
Page  27
equivalent
$250,000 
equivalent or less
PSW
Prior Review: Twice-yearly review of 
Procurement Plan, as per paragraph 2 
of Section IV of this Schedule. 
Post Review: Random sample of 
contracting documents
As provided in the 
Procurement Plan
Other Methods of 
Procurement
As provided in the Procurement Plan
2. Goods
$200,000 
equivalent or more
ICB
Prior Review: Each contract
Less than $200,000 
equivalent but more 
than $50,000 
equivalent
NCB
Prior Review: Each contract
$50,000 equivalent 
or less
S(I/N)
Prior Review: Twice-yearly review of 
Procurement Plan, as per paragraph 2 
of Section IV of this Schedule. 
Post Review: Random sample of 
contracting documents.
As provided in the 
Procurement Plan
Other Methods of 
Procurement
As provided in the Procurement Plan
Page  28
Page  29
Procurement item 
as per the 
Procurement 
Plan
Contract Value 
(Threshold)
Procurement 
Method
Association Review
3. Consultant 
Services
     3.1 Firms
As provided in the 
Procurement Plan
QCBS
Prior Review for Consultants: All 
TORs, RFPs, short lists, technical and 
combined evaluations of each 
contract estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent or more. 
Post Review for Consultants: 
Random sample of contracting 
documents of each contract estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent.
As provided in the 
Procurement Plan
Other Methods of 
Selection
As provided in the Procurement Plan
    3.2  
Individual 
Consultants
As provided in the 
Procurement Plan
IC
Prior Review for Consultants: Each 
contract estimated to cost $20,000 
equivalent or more.
Post Review for Consultants: 
Random sample of contracting 
documents of each contract estimated 
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent.
4. Amendments 
and extensions of 
contracts
Increase in contract 
value above 
threshold 
established in the 
Association Review 
column of this 
Table
Prior Review or Prior Review for 
Consultants, as the case may be.
Page  30
Definitions:
1.
“ICB” means the International Competitive Bidding procedure set forth in Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto;
2.
“IC” means the Individual Consultants selection procedure set forth in paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines;
3.
“NCB” means the National Competitive Bidding procedure set forth in paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines;
4.
“Other Methods of Procurement” means the methods of procurement set forth in Section 
III of the Guidelines;
5.
“Other Methods of Selection” means the methods of selection set forth in Section III of 
the Consultant Guidelines;
6.
“Post Review for Consultants” means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association determines, 
at any time, that the proposed selection is inconsistent with the provisions of the Consultant 
Guidelines or this Schedule, it shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its 
determination;
7.
“Post Review” means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association determines, at any time, that the proposed 
procurement is inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines or this Schedule, it shall 
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determination;
8.
“Prior Review for Consultants” means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; 
9.
“Prior Review” means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines;
10.
“PSW” means the Procurement of Small Works procedure for lump sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully;
11.
“QCBS” means the Quality and Cost-based selection procedure set forth in Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
applicable provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof; 
12.
“RFP” means request for proposals;
Page  31
13.
“S(I/N)” means the Shopping (International or National) procedure referred to in 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
14.
“TORs” means terms of reference.
Section VI.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provision set forth in this Schedule or 
the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods and works under NCB:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be 
based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance with a 
procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a bid, 
the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be 
declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have been 
determined to be non-responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) which are 
at least substantially equivalent to the Borrower’s standards and technical specifications shall be 
acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to their bids 
with the Borrower’s authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure 
(Puja Abierta)
 shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest evaluated 
price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the bid with the second lowest evaluated 
price.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter into a 
Page  32
joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of SNC shall apply without the prior review 
and approval of the Association.
B.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or 
the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of consultants’ 
services referred to in this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall not be 
required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, unless the conditions 
stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall not be 
required to legalize their proposals, or any documentation related to such proposals, with 
Bolivian authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s National 
Registry of Consultants (
Registro Nacional de Consultoría
).
