                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR 1928



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-3630)



                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 62 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                    PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA

                                     FOR THE

           ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                               December 20, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Country Management Unit – LCC6C
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2011)

                       Currency Unit = Bolivianos
                       1.00 Boliviano= US$ 0.014
                       US$1.00 = 7.01 Bolivianos
                            FISCAL YEAR
                       [January 1 – December 31]

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABC      Administradora Boliviana de Carreteras (National Road Agency)
ADT      Average Daily Traffic
AIS      Accident Information System
ARI      Acuerdo de Reforma Institucional (Institutional Reform Agreement)
CAF      Corporación Andina de Fomento (Andean Development Corporation)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF      Comprehensive Development Framework
CNCV     Cuenta Nacional de Conservación Vial
         (Road Maintenance National Account)
FMR      Financial Monitoring Reports
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOB      Government of Bolivia
HDM      Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IDA      International Development Association
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRI      International (Road) Roughness Index
ISRR     Implementation Status and Results Report
MOPSV    Ministerio de Obras Públicas, Servicios y Vivienda
NDF      Nordic Development Fund
NPV      Net Present Value
NRSC     National Road safety Council
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDN      Plan de Desarrollo Nacional (National Development Plan)
PDO      Project development Objective
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SEDCAM   Servicio Departamental de Caminos (Departmental Road Agency)
SEPCAM   Servicio Prefectural de Caminos (Prefectural Road Agency)
SNC      Servicio Nacional de Caminos (National Road Agency)
VMT      Vice Ministry of Transport




                                    ii
Vice President:         Pamela Cox
Country Director:       Susan Goldmark
Sector Manager:         Aurelio Menendez
Project Team Leader:    Gylfi Palsson
ICR Team Leader:        Gylfi Palsson/Gerard Liautaud

                       iii
                                                        BOLIVIA


                             Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project




                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring
       I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 29
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 31
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 32
MAP




                                                               iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Road Rehabilitation
Country:                Bolivia                 Project Name:             and Maintenance
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P068968                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36300,IDA-3630A
ICR Date:               10/05/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BOLIVIA
Original Total
                        XDR 62.00M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 52.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 55.95M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Administradora Boliviana de Carreteras - ABC
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/14/2000     Effectiveness:             11/21/2002        11/21/2002
                                                                                  12/20/2007
Appraisal:            01/14/2002     Restructuring(s):                            12/18/2008
                                                                                  12/22/2009
Approval:             04/16/2002     Mid-term Review:           01/30/2006        06/19/2006
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       3                     3
Roads and highways                                                     97                  97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 40                  40
Other public sector governance                                         20                  20
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                       20                  20
procurement
Rural services and infrastructure                                      20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                            David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Susan G. Goldmark                     Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Aurelio Menendez                      Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:       Gylfi Palsson                         Aurelio Menendez
ICR Team Leader:           Gylfi Palsson
ICR Primary Author:        Gerard L. Liautaud


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to improve road transitability and accessibility
through the rehabilitation of key segments of the national and secondary road networks
and the strengthening of the country's capacity to manage road assets. At a broader level,
the project seeks to preserve economic development along key road links of the national

                                                vi
network and facilitate the social and economic integration of the regions and
communities in the area of influence of those links.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target      Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years
                Passanger transport tariffs per person reduced by 15% from La Pa to Oruro and
Indicator 1 :
                by 10% from Santa Cruz to yacuiba at project completion
                                            13.05 Bolivianos                15.32 Bolivianos
                15 Bolivianos (La Paz -
                                            (La Paz - Oruro                 (La Paz - Oruro
Value           Oruro
quantitative or
                                         50 Bolivianos                     37 Bolivianos
Qualitative)    120 Bolivianos (Santa
                                         (Santa Cruz -                     (Santa Cruz -
                Cruz - Yacuiba)
                                         Yacuiba)                          Yacuiba)
Date achieved 04/01/2002                 01/01/2008                        06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                90% of the national road network is appropriately maintained with micro-
Indicator 1 :
                enterprises and/or maintenance contracts
Value           74% routinely maintained
(quantitative   in 2002 (i.e. 8,762 km of 90%                               100%
or Qualitative) a total of 11,818 km)
Date achieved 04/01/2002                  01/01/2008                        06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    05/15/2002       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    10/17/2002       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    05/28/2003       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     5.02
  4    11/13/2003       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     8.81
  5    05/25/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   19.66
  6    11/29/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   23.73
  7    04/29/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   29.85
  8    06/30/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   32.37
  9    12/16/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   39.88
                         Moderately                Moderately
 10    06/30/2006                                                                45.90
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
 11    12/13/2006                                                                48.82
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
 12    06/26/2007                                                                53.18
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 13    11/27/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            55.33
 14    01/22/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            56.04
 15    04/28/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            56.75
                         Moderately                Moderately
 16    12/15/2008                                                                59.69
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 17    04/09/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            59.85
 18    10/12/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            61.56
                                                   Moderately
 19    04/23/2010   Moderately Satisfactory                                      67.04
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
 20    05/04/2010   Moderately Satisfactory                                      67.04
                                                 Unsatisfactory
 21    12/23/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            73.46
 22    06/25/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            74.68


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 12/20/2007               MS    MS           55.33
 12/18/2008               MS    MS           59.69
 12/22/2009               MS    MU           61.70


                                          viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

        Over the five-year period that preceded the appraisal of this project, between 1997
and 2002, Bolivia’s macroeconomic environment had significantly deteriorated with a
total GDP growth of only 2.5 percent, far less than the population growth during the same
period. The economic difficulties were, in large part, due to external and domestic
shocks, combined with unsustainable levels of public spending and stagnant government
tax revenues. On the external front, the international capital market turmoil after the
Russian crisis of 1998 led to scarce private external financing for Bolivia and its trading
partners, while the 1999 Brazilian devaluation and the 2001 Argentine devaluation, with
the ensuing crises, lowered the competitiveness of and demand for Bolivian exports. On
the internal front, a series of domestic factors such as the coca eradication program,
uncertain presidential elections and outbursts of social unrest adversely affected the
economy and further aggravated an already difficult situation. Table 1 shows the
evolution of GDP growth, total revenue, total expenditure and overall fiscal balance
during the period 1998-2002.

                            Table 1 Bolivia Economic Indicators 1997-2002
 Variables                      Avg.1990-96   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
 GDP US$ billion                6             7.8     8.5     8.3     8.2     8.1     8
 Population, million            7             7.8     8       8.2     8.4     8.6     8.8
 GDP/Inhab, US$                 857           1,000   1,063   1,012   976     942     909
 GDP Growth rate %              4.3           5       8.97    -2.4    -1.22   -1.23   -1.25
 Total Tax revenues % of GDP    23.4          24      25.1    25.8    25.6    25.5    24.8
 Total Public Expenditures, %   27.3          27.3    29.7    29.7    29.3    32.4    33.7
 of GDP
 Overall Balance % of GDP       -3.9          -3.3    -4.6    -4.6    -3.8    -6.9    -8.9


        Despite the difficult economic conditions, improving the road transport network
was always perceived by the Government of Bolivia as the key bottleneck to help local
producers become more competitive and to open market opportunities for the rural
regions. For the past several years, roads had been the central focus of the government’s
investment program, which on average had spent nearly a third of its investment budget
on the road sector. However, with a territory of one million square kilometers and a
small population base of about 8 million, large distances between cities, low traffic
levels, high transport costs constituted the key features of the Bolivian road network.
Road coverage, measured by the density of the road network, was the lowest in the
region: about 55km/1,000 km2 compared to a regional average of 116km/1,000 km2;
furthermore, only 7 percent of the network was paved compared to a regional average of
about 20 percent. In addition, Bolivia faced other challenges including a very high traffic
accident rate and severe internal inefficiencies and institutional bottlenecks, for example:
(i) the bulk of the road investment program was centered around new constructions and
paving programs that were not supported by adequate economic analyses and
prioritization policies, while routine maintenance activities were severely underfunded;
(ii) lack of transparent and competitive procurement processes; (iii) an unsuccessful
decentralization initiative that transferred, in 1995, the entire road network to newly
created “Prefecturas? (decentralized departmental units of the central government)
lacking technical capacity to adequately address the proper upkeep of the national
                                                      1
network, which resulted in 1998-99 in a reverse course of actions for re-centralization
that placed responsibility for road coverage under all three levels of government, as
shown in Table 2.

                                Table 2 Bolivia Road Network in 2001
       Category           Jurisdiction    Paved          Gravel          Earth                Total
                                         Km     %       km      %      km      %      km              %
   National or Primary       SNC         3,795   32%   4,861    41%   3,202    27%   11,858           20%

    Departmental or
                          SEPCAMs         93     1%    4,830    52%   4,366    47%   9,289            16%
      Secondary

  Municipal or Tertiary   Munipalities    0      0%    6,925    18%   31,050   82%   37,975           64%

         Total                           3,888   7%    16,616   28%   38,618   65%   59,122       100%


        In terms of road surface condition, reliable data, based on objective roughness
measurements, were not available. The project appraisal document describes the riding
quality of the national network in 2000 as follows: about 11 percent in good condition, 54
percent in regular condition and 35 percent in poor condition. However, not only those
ratings were based on a visual and subjective appreciation, they did not differentiate
between the paved and unpaved portions of the network, making future comparisons
difficult.

        Prior to project preparation, the Government of Bolivia prepared a
Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) and a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) that were supported by three main pillars: opportunity, equity and institutionality.
Under the “opportunity? pillar, the government’s plan was to preserve and expand roads
to help spur market creation opportunities. Under the “institutionality? pillar, the key
actions focused on the reform of public sector institutions, and in particular the road
sector agencies, aiming to instill efficiency and transparent practices in their actions and
programs.

        The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on June
16, 1998 had the main objective to support the poverty reduction effort of the
Government by helping to improve the physical infrastructure of Bolivia, with particular
emphasis on upgrading the condition of the road network and the capacity of the public
sector to manage it, while allowing for the participation of the private sector to the
maximum possible extent. For that reason, the CAS gave high priority to the financing of
this second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, a follow up to a previous loan
that was granted in 1999 for the restoration of a crucial link of the primary network, the
Abapo-Camiri Highway.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

       The project development objective was to improve road transitability and
accessibility, through the rehabilitation of key segments of the national and secondary
road networks and the strengthening of the country’s capacity to manage its road assets.
At a broader level, the project sought to preserve economic development along key road
links of the national network and facilitate the social and economic integration of the


                                                        2
regions       and       communities             in      the      area       of      influence         of      those       links.

         More specific project development objectives were: (a) to arrest the premature
deterioration and the increased maintenance costs of key links of the national road
network and to support the implementation of a sustainable mechanism for the proper
maintenance of the national road network; (b) to consolidate the revamping of the
institutional framework by making the national road agency results-oriented and
improving the efficiency and transparency of contractual practices; (c) to pilot
coordinating mechanisms that can help strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Prefecturas to manage the secondary road networks under their jurisdiction; and (d) to
initiate the development of a road safety initiative in order to reduce the comparatively-
high accident rate that plagued Bolivia highways, affecting, in particular, travelers with
lower income levels. The key performance indicators of the project are given in Tables
3.1, 3.2 and 3.3

                                   Table 3.1 Outcome Indicators for the Sector-Related CAS Goal
 Sector-Related CAS Goal                      Sector Outcome Indicators                      Base Line
 Improve transport inter-connections          Freight transport tariffs per ton from La Paz   US$ 36
 across Bolivian regions, facilitating their to Oruro and from Boyuibe to Yacuiba
 integration into the country’s economic      reduced by 15% at constant value, at project
 and local activities                         completion
                                              Passenger transport tariffs per person reduced  15 Bolivianos (between La Paz and
                                              by 15% from La Paz to Oruro and by 10%,         Oruro)
                                              from Santa Cruz to Yacuiba, at project          120 Bolivianos ( between Santa Cruz
                                              completion                                      and Yacuiba)
                                              Number of Bus trips per day increased by        400 bus/day (between Paracamaya
                                              16% by the end of the third year between        and Caracollo);
                                              Paracamaya and Caracollo and between            60 bus/day (between Villamontes
                                              Villamontes and Yacuiba, and by 28% by          and Yacuiba)
                                              project end

                               Table 3.2 Outcome Indicators for the Project Development Objectives
 Project Development Objectives              Key Outcome performance Indicator              Base Line
 Improve transitability and accessibility    Number of freight transport units (trucks)     450 trucks between Calamarca and
 through the rehabilitation of key           between Calamarca and Oruro and between        Oriro;
 segments of the national and secondary      Boyuibe and Yacuiba increased by 18% at        300 trucks between Boyuibe and
 road network, and                           third year of project and by 28% by project    Yacuiba
                                             end
                                             Percentage of national road network in good    19%
                                             condition increased to 30% at project mid-
                                             term and to 40% at project completion
 Strengthen the country’s capacity to        Timely preparation and public dissemination    No annual report
 manage its road assets                      of an annual report on operational and
                                             financial performance of CNCV
                                             Network-based road maintenance plans and       No network-based plans
                                             budgets at 4 participating Prefecturas
                                             (SEPCAMs) developed and implemented
                                             (with indication of maintenance activities
                                             costs and productivities)
                                             100% of SNC’s managerial and technical         N/A
                                             staff appointed on the basis of managerial and
                                             technical merits and appropriate budgeting of
                                             salaries by project mid-term and through
                                             project end


                                            Legal framework as established by Law 2064      N/A
                                            and Supreme Decree 2636 upheld through
                                            project end.




                                                                3
Table 3.3 Output Indicators from each project Component
 Component                                Output Indicators                           Base Line
  Rehabilitation of priority segments of  353 km rehabilitated                        0 km
 the national road network,
  Eligible sections of the secondary      200 km rehabilitated                        0 km
 network rehabilitated
 Strengthen management capacity in        90% of the national road network is         74% routinely maintained in 2002 (i.e.,
 supervision, maintenance and road        appropriately maintained with micro-        8762 km of a total of 11,818 km)
 safety and improved inter--              enterprises and/or maintenance contracts
 institutional coordination with          Procedures and systems for                  N/A
 Prefecturas                              implementation of transparent and
                                          efficient procurement, contract, and
                                          financial management implementation at
                                          the SNC by project mid-term and through
                                          project end
                                          Quality control management systems          N/A
 Maintenance of road network carried      installed at the SNC by project mid-term,
 out with appropriate contractual         allowing compliance with timetable of
 arrangement with private contractors     Procurement Plan
 and micro-enterprises and properly       80% of counterpart disbursements (from      N/A
 funded                                   Prefecturas) for donor-financed road
                                          projects made effective within three
                                          months of request
                                          80% of periodic and routine maintenance     N/A
                                          needs covered with sustained resources
                                          (from road users’ charges)
                                          80% of routine maintenance of the           N/A
                                          national road network appropriately
                                          carried out with microenterprises and/or
                                          maintenance contracts and achieving
                                          planned maintenance targets by project
                                          end
                                          Accident information systems developed      N/A
                                          and operational in the Department of La
                                          Paz and Santa Cruz with appropriate
                                          external linkages to key stakeholders by
                                          project end
                                          Options for institutional framework for     N/A
                                          road safety developed on preferred
                                          institutional structure made, by project
                                          end


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification

The original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised during
project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

        The primary target group of beneficiaries was the long distance transport services
and users between the main population centers and the export markets at the end points of
the rehabilitated and resurfaced road segments. Also, the project was expected to benefit
the population of the local communities along the area of influence of those segments
through their better integration to social and economic activities, while the support to the
funding of the Road Maintenance Account (CNCV), intended for providing sustainable
maintenance financing for roads, would further help reduce overall transport costs for all
populations.




                                                              4
1.5 Original Components

       The project included the following five components:

Component 1: Rehabilitation of about 353 km priority segments of the national
road network (US$ 36.4 million). This component would finance the rehabilitation of
two critical links of the primary paved network: 165 km of the Calamarca-San Pedro
section located on National Route 1, a main corridor for export and import that connects
the four regions of the country and links La Paz to Oruro; and 188 km of the Boyuibe-
Yacuiba section located on National Route 9, linking Santa Cruz to the borders with
Argentina and Paraguay, and providing continuity to the Abapo-Camiri highway whose
rehabilitation was financed under the previous Credit (3235-BO). Restoring the
structural integrity and riding quality of those severely damaged and heavily trafficked
portions of the primary network would help reduce road users costs while allowing total
traffic and commercial vehicles to continue increasing at a sustainable rate, thus
facilitating the development of productive activities in their areas of influence. The
works would essentially consist in the repair of all damaged areas, including the
reconstruction of the most severely deteriorated pavement sections and shoulders,
followed by the application of an asphalt concrete overlay of about 5 cm. thickness, with
adequate horizontal marking and vertical signs.

Component 2: Pilot of rehabilitation of about 200 km of secondary roads (US$ 5.7
million). This component would be implemented in four selected Departments: La Paz,
Oruro, Chuquisaca, and Tarija. Works would consist essentially in restoring the drainage
system along key segments that link to main economic corridors network, including the
construction of small to medium-size bridges, followed by the re-gravelling of the surface
course, at an estimated maximum cost of about US$ 25,000/km. The works would not
only help increase the benefits accrued from the rehabilitation of segments belonging to
the primary network, thus facilitating transport from low-income communities, but also
serve as an incentive for the Prefecturas to engage into adequate road management
practices under SNC supervision and guidance.

Component 3: Road maintenance and Resurfacing Program on the national road
network (US$ 211.8 million). This component sought to expand and rationalize the
practice of routine and periodic maintenance over the primary road network, by financing
a portion of the costs incurred in the periodic maintenance sub-component, while the
funding of routine maintenance activities would be absorbed by the resources of the
CNCV. A tentative program of about 600 km/year of periodic maintenance over the 5-
year implementation period of the project was initially contemplated at appraisal, at a
total estimated cost of about US$ 108 million (about US$ 36,000/km), of which US$ 34.3
million would be financed by the Credit. Resurfacing works would comprise surface-
dressing and/or thin asphalt concrete overlays on sections belonging to the paved portions
of the primary network, or re-gravelling and drainage system restoration on sections
belonging to the unpaved portion of that network. The implementation of that component
was expected to have a decisive impact on the riding quality of the national network,
helping to increase the percent of road in good condition from about 19% at project start
to a projected 41% at project end.

                                            5
Component 4: Technical Assistance (US$ 28.3 million). Under this component, the
project aimed to finance technical assistance activities (consultant’s assignments,
equipment, and training) in the following key areas:

   (a) A Road safety initiative aimed at: (i) developing an institutional framework that
       would permit the proper management of road traffic safety issues such as the
       creation of an entity such as a National Road Safety Council (NRSC); (ii)
       establishing an Accident Information System (AIS), concentrating initially in the
       two Departments that are most severely affected by road accidents, namely: La
       Paz and Santa Cruz; and, (iii) carrying out a systematic auditing of new and/or
       existing roads to assess their vulnerability to accidents and recommend
       appropriate mitigating measures;
   (b) Pre-investment studies, aimed to support, through the procurement of specialized
       Consulting firms, the preparation of engineering studies for the rehabilitation and
       periodic maintenance programs, as well as for the pilot to be undertaken by the
       SEPCAMs (Prefectural Road Agencies);
   (c) Supervision of the rehabilitation and resurfacing works, including the pilot sub-
       component,, through the procurement of consulting services; and,
   (d) Technical and financial audits, related to the use of the CNCV resources, the
       pilot program of rehabilitation of secondary roads, the accounts of the SNC and
       ultimately the impact assessment of the implementation of the project.

Component 5. Road Sector Management and Institution Building (US$ 1.8 million).
The activities financed under this component focused on three key areas:

       Maintenance programming; including the training in the use of the Highway
       Development and Maintenance Model (HDM) to help better plan, design and
       prioritize multi-year maintenance programs for the road network, as well as the
       carrying out of network condition and traffic surveys (including the procurement
       of specialized equipment);

       Procurement and contract management, through the development of adequate
       information systems, training and acquisition of appropriate equipment; and;

       Contract maintenance, to support the analyses, monitoring of and comparison
       between the current modalities of unit-price maintenance contracts while
       exploring the possibility of using performance-based systems, as well as the
       strengthening of the coordination between SNC and Vice Ministry of Transport in
       what relates to overall planning and definition of road investments.

1.6 Revised Components

        On December 10, 2007, the Bank agreed to revise project description to
incorporate a new Category for emergency rehabilitation works located in the Beni
region, due to severe flooding that affected, in February 2007, the transitability and
structural integrity of four unpaved road sections of the primary network, totaling about
181 km (raising of embankments, spot re-graveling, and improvement in the drainage

                                           6
system). Since such works fall within the broad category of road rehabilitation that the
project originally intended to finance, the development objective of the project remained
unchanged.

1.7 Other significant changes

        In order to finance the above-mentioned emergency works, Schedule 1 of the
Credit agreement was amended on the same date, by reallocating funds among categories
of disbursement, essentially from the uncommitted contingencies funds. In addition, the
closing date of the credit was extended for two years, from December 31, 2007 to
December 31, 2009, in order to provide more time for the execution of the additional
emergency rehabilitation works. In December 2009, and at the request of the Borrower,
the Bank granted a second extension of the closing date for an additional eighteen
months, to June 30, 2011, in order to allow for more successful project implementation
and greater achievement of development objectives. Other changes included: (i)
variations in the exchange rate between SDR and US$ that increased the total amount of
the Credit, in dollar terms assigned to the project, from about US$ 89.4 million to US$
98.3million; (ii) the target of kilometers of national roads to be rehabilitated changed
from 353 km to 533 km (to account for the 180 km of emergency works) and (iii)
amendment to the Credit Agreement to allow ABC to become the implementing agency
of the project, in replacement of the liquidated former SNC (See section 2.2); and finally,
(iv) the cancellation of uncommitted funds, towards the end of the project, for an amount
of SDR 6.05 million (US$ 9.6 million).


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

        By and large, project preparation, design and quality at entry was satisfactory. In
retrospect, however, many of the measures intended to mitigate some of the identified
risks, proved, in the end, to be insufficient or ineffective:

   1. The project focused on helping to resolve the main issues and challenges
      confronted by the road sector at the time, namely: the poor condition of the
      national road network, the lack of a sustainable mechanism for the financing of
      road maintenance, and the weak institutional capacity of the national and
      departmental road agencies. On the first front, it was expected that the
      rehabilitation and resurfacing of key segments of the national road network
      complemented by adequate routine maintenance activities would help improve the
      condition of that network, while contributing to lower road users costs. Such
      expectation was ultimately met. On the second front, the financial support
      provided in Component 3 towards establishing and financing a maintenance
      account would (and did) help build a platform on which a more sustainable
      financing mechanism could be based. On the third front, the pilot of
      rehabilitation for the secondary road network, as well as the broader technical
      assistance and institutional strengthening components of the project, would help
      overhaul the national and departmental road agencies, and bring about reforms in

                                            7
   the management of the road assets in Bolivia. In the end, the pilot component did
   not meet appraisal expectations. In addition, during project preparation, the
   concerns of the communities located in the areas of influence of the rehabilitation
   works were addressed by hiring a specialized consultant to carry out a social
   assessment of those communities, and to hear their voices regarding the works
   that would be undertaken. Indeed, no social issue was raised during project
   implementation. Also, the project addressed the critical issue of road safety by
   initiating the definition and establishment of an adequate institutional framework,
   but unfortunately, the road safety issue was only partially resolved.

2. The project sought to incorporate in its design the lessons learned from
   previous Bank-financed operations, namely: (i) a longer-than-normal project
   implementation period, due to frequent reshuffling and high turnover of
   managerial staff within the project executing agencies; (ii) an unlikelihood of
   success for institutional reforms (even when supported by laws), unless strategies
   and concepts are internalized and given sufficient time to materialize; (iii) a lack
   of commitment and enforcement capacity of the central government to implement
   a sustainable financing mechanism for maintenance, and (iv) a weak financial and
   execution capacity of local contractors, associated with deficient management and
   internal control capacity of the SNC. The project design sought to address the
   first lesson by delaying appraisal until the necessary institutional reforms in the
   civil service were well underway, but in retrospect that proved to be insufficient.
   To address the second lesson, the preparation of the strategic development plan
   was undertaken in collaboration with a wide spectrum of affected stakeholders
   with the aim of achieving proper internalization of concepts. Finally, the third
   and fourth series of problems would be mitigated successfully by financially
   supporting the performance of the CNCV and by enhancing the quality of sub-
   project design, bidding documents, and works supervision.

3. A range of risks were identified during project preparation for which
   mitigation measures were considered, in particular: (i) the risk of an uneven
   commitment to institutional reforms would be mitigated by implemented key
   reform steps prior to project approval and by establishing conditions and remedies
   in the Credit agreement to ensure continuation of the reforms; (ii) the risk of
   decreasing government interest in supporting the road maintenance national
   account would be mitigated by advancing key elements focusing on technical
   assistance to strengthen the management capacity of the SNC; (iii) the risk of
   unfavorable weather conditions would be mitigated by allowing for normal rainy
   seasons in engineering design, execution timetable and contractual arrangements
   for works; (iv) the risk of protracted release of counterpart funds would be
   mitigated by aligning pace of investments with reasonable budgetary
   appropriations; (v) the risk of delays in contracts awards would be minimized by
   agreeing on a suitable procurement plan and by closely monitoring tendering
   processes to ensure compliance with Bank’s guidelines; and (vi) the risk of lack
   of interest in pursuing inter-institutional coordination initiatives between the SNC
   and the Prefecturas would be mitigated by building proper incentives through co-
   financing arrangements and technical partnership and support with the
   Prefecturas or other entities such as the National Transit Police. In the end,

                                        8
         however, these sensibly formulated mitigation measures would not suffice, as
         explained in Section 2 below.

      4. Finally, project design was fully aligned with the main pillars of the CAS, as
         discussed by the Board in June 1998, and consistent with the Country
         Development Framework and Poverty Reduction Strategy elaborated by the
         Government in May 1999, and March 2001 respectively.


2.2      Implementation

         A number of factors severely constrained project implementation.

Factors outside the control of government:
    Social and civil disturbances, including road blockades, strikes and
      demonstrations that swept the nation, particularly from 2003 to 2006. During that
      period, between 400 and 700 socio-political conflicts were recorded. Such
      disturbances had a negative slow-down effect on the execution of the project,
      causing, furthermore, lengthy suspension in the supply of diesel fuel in the
      country;
    Changes in world market and prices, between 2003 and 2007, notably for crude
      oil and its by-products (diesel, asphalt, lubricating oils) that caused delays in the
      execution of the overlays and a dramatic increase in the cost of works items that
      use asphalt products;
    Unforeseen extraordinary weather conditions, such as the exceptional rainfalls
      and extensive flooding that affected particularly the Beni region, in the aftermath
      of El Nino phenomenon, early 2007, demanding the re-direction of the
      implementing agency’s efforts to attend, under emergency response, the most
      vulnerable roads;
    Poor performance of local contractors, in particular those in charge of the
      relatively straightforward periodic maintenance sub-projects, due to their lack of
      equipment, liquid assets, financial capacity and internal organization.

Factors subject to government control:
    The highly politicized institutional restructuring process of the implementing
      agency (SNC) following the change-over of the administration in 2006. The
      process hindered decision-making and resulted in, at least, one-and-a-half year of
      project inactivity. Indeed, soon after the new administration took office in
      January 2006, the intention to liquidate the SNC was announced, and through the
      promulgation of Law 3507 and the enactment of four regulatory decrees in
      October-November 2006, the new Road Agency, the Administradora Boliviana
      de Carreteras (ABC) was created. Because of the cumbersome part of that
      institutional transformation process, the project remained practically idle until
      June 2007;
    The lower-than-expected level of counterpart funds assigned to the Road
      Maintenance National Account (CNCV), with insufficient contributions recovered
      from the fuel taxes or from tolls. As a result, the scope and implementation of the
      periodic maintenance of the national highway system was severely affected.

                                            9
Factors subject to the control of the implementation agency:
    Weak institutional capacity of the national road agency (both SNC and ABC) that
      translated into: (i) poor financial management of the works contracts, including
      delays in payments to contractors; (ii) lack of procurement staffing and
      management capacity that caused delays in bidding and awarding contracts, with
      frequently late requests for Bank’s no-objections; (iii) inadequate monitoring and
      evaluation of the road network condition and traffic volumes; (iv) inefficient
      oversight of Consultants, both at the design and supervision stage, that caused a
      considerable quantity of project modifications and variation orders, during
      contracts execution; and (v) inadequacy and quality of staffing as well as high
      rotation and turnover both at the national and departmental level, that hindered the
      coordination between the respective agencies, and prevented proper
      implementation of the technical support that had to be provided by the national
      road agency to the SEPCAMs.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

        2.3.1 M&E Design. At appraisal, it was contemplated that progress achieved in
project implementation would be monitored and evaluated through annual reviews that
would focus on:
     Advances in the institutional reforms and reorganization of the SNC;
     Compliance with the project implementation schedule;
     Level and composition of the resources allocated to CNCV; and
     Degree of achievement against the project performance indicators.

         While progress achieved under the institutional component could be monitored
through some discrete but adequate indicators, and compliance with project
implementation schedule and financial needs could be checked against easily measurable
lengths or unit costs of road rehabilitated, resurfaced and maintained, (as well as the
amount and distribution of resources assigned to CNCV), some other indicators,
including their collection methods, to monitor progress towards the Project Development
Objectives, lacked precise definition. For example, the PDO key outcome indicator for
the transitability of the national road network was expressed in terms of “percent of
roads in good condition? without defining exactly the meaning of “good condition? and
without discriminating between the paved and unpaved portions of that network. It is
understood that the determination of SNC would be relied on. Likewise, another key
performance indicator intended to measure the improvement in the transitability and
accessibility of the two segments to be rehabilitated was expressed in terms of “an
increase in the daily volume of trucks and buses? using those links, presuming the then
annual surveys and reports being undertaken, but without clear definition of duration,
location and period of the traffic surveys. Also, the sector-related outcome indicator
intended to measure the improvement in transport interconnection across Bolivian
regions was expressed in terms of “freight and passenger tariffs per ton or per
passenger? without a clear description of the methodology to be used to estimate those
tariffs, and omitting that such tariffs are not solely dependent on road surface condition
but also on external factors that are beyond the control of the project, such as the


                                           10
volatility or increase in world market prices, including fuel, diesel and vehicle spare
parts.

2.3.2 M&E Implementation and Utilization. During project implementation, and
particularly during Bank’s supervision missions, progress achieved under the institutional
component (and related covenants) could be measured and were reported in the Aide-
memoires. However, despite frequent reminders from Bank’s missions and the
availability of financial resources to that effect, the national road agency failed to
systematically carry out annual road network condition surveys, impeding the proper
monitoring of the improvements in the riding quality of the pavements resulting from the
rehabilitation and resurfacing works carried out. The only reliable road surface condition
surveys were carried out, for the first time, in 2008, over 50 percent of the length of the
paved primary network, and at the very end of the project, in 2010, by an international
consulting firm who made an objective inventory of the condition of the entire national
road network. Likewise, albeit to a smaller extent, traffic data that had been
systematically collected between 1991 and 2003 were interrupted in 2004 and 2005, as
well as between 2007 and 2009. For the earlier period, these interruptions in regular data
collection are likely a result of the social-political upheaval at the time, while institutional
transition from SNC to ABC may be the cause of the latter.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Procurement

        During project preparation, in 2000-2001, a procurement assessment of the
national road agency vetted SNC as a high-risk institution. Such assessment was not
based on any major procurement issues that had taken place in the past, but essentially
because of the very slow rate of implementation in the preparation of bidding documents,
evaluation of proposals, and award of contracts, generally due to frequent staff
reshuffling and their lack of expertise. Following the execution in 2002 of an action plan
designed to enhance the procurement function at the SNC, including intensive training
and hiring of competent personnel, the procurement capacity of the institution had
somewhat improved and was considered acceptable, at loan effectiveness, allowing to
proceed with project implementation.

         However, throughout project execution and despite the assistance provided locally
by the Bank’s Country Office unit, procurement management capacity remained weak
and was consistently rated, at best, as moderately satisfactory, in the ISRs filed between
2004 and 2011. Indeed, the positive outcome of the action plan and training program that
were implemented between 2002 and 2004 fell victim of the highly politicized
institutional restructuring process of the implementing agency that followed the change-
over of the administration at the beginning of 2006, bringing about generalized activity
slowdown in project execution for nearly two years, as well as the laying-off of staff
previously trained.




                                              11
2.4.2 Financial Management

         At appraisal, an assessment of the financial management capacity of the SNC was
carried out and concluded that it satisfied the Bank’s minimum requirements. Moreover,
in November 2002, the establishment of a computerized financial management system
fulfilled one of the conditions for project effectiveness. Throughout project execution,
the financial management capacity of the national road agency was consistently rated as
moderately satisfactory, with some shortcomings, including late payments to contractors,
and untimely submission of periodic financial reports and annual audit reports.

2.4.3 Environmental and Social Aspects

         Since the project would finance the rehabilitation and/or resurfacing of roads
within their existing right-of way, including the overall routine maintenance of the
national network, no direct environmental negative impacts or displacement of
populations were expected. Nonetheless, during appraisal and throughout project
implementation, the national road agency carried out adequate screening analysis of all
sub-projects financed under the Credit Agreement to ensure compliance with Bank’s
guidelines. Those screenings were based on an environmental Manual that was prepared
especially to that effect, including for the use of contractors executing the works. In
addition, social assessment studies were also carried out for the key rehabilitation sub-
projects, indicating ample acceptance of such works by the communities located in their
areas of influence.
         Throughout project implementation, supervision reports mentioned no significant
safeguard policies or fiduciary issues, and the rating for compliance with Bank’s policies
in that regard was always satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

        Following up the completion of this project, the Bank would continue to provide
support to GOB through a subsequent loan for another rehabilitation project involving a
key segment of the national primary network: the upgrading and paving of the 114 km-
long San Buenaventura-Ixiamas road. In addition to the physical component the project
design foresees a sustained institutional strengthening of ABC, including extensive
training in contract, procurement and financial management during the project
implementation period (2011-2016).
        On the other hand, recent past budgetary resources allocated to ABC for road
maintenance and rehabilitation (budget execution doubled from US$ 115 million in 2002,
to US$ 238 million, in 2008) suggest that the sustained up-keep of the primary road
network should not be problematic. Indeed, the rolling 5-year program of investments
for 2011-2015 allow for a total annual budget of about US$ 500 million that would be
used to: (i) increase by 40% the length of the paved network (i.e., upgrade some 1,800
km to paved roads, using low-cost paving technologies); (ii) rehabilitate and/or resurface
about 2000 to 3000 km of existing paved roads; (iii) routinely maintain the entire primary
road network, including patching of all potholes and improving the horizontal markings
and vertical signs over nearly 7,500 km; and (iv) grade and re-gravel the unpaved portion
of the national road system.


                                           12
        It may be argued that the project and the Bank’s ongoing involvement in the
sector at least contributed towards better understanding of the importance of the upkeep
of the road network.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

        The objectives, design and implementation of the project are still of high
relevance and consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with the
Bank’s latest Interim Strategy Note presented to the Board in June 2009, and applicable
to the 2010 and 2011 fiscal years. Indeed, among the strategies proposed by the National
Development Plan (PDN) approved by the GOB in June 2006, features a strategy for road
development and maintenance that seeks the physical integration of the country in
support of the productive sector, as well as provisions for pursuing the strengthening of
democratic institutions and reducing poverty. Also, one of the pillars of the Bank’s
Interim Strategy Note is to promote productive development and support to production by
continuing to improve transport infrastructure, notably roads.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

       The broad and ultimate goal of the project, at sector level, was to improve
transport inter-connections across Bolivian regions, facilitating their integration into the
country’s economic and social activities. To achieve that goal, the two most important
project development objectives were: (i) to improve transitability and accessibility
through the rehabilitation and/or resurfacing of key segments of the national road
network; and (ii) to strengthen the country’s capacity to manage its road assets.

3.2.1 Improvement in road network condition

         On the first front, it was anticipated that the transitability or riding quality of the
primary network would be improved by: (i) rehabilitating, selectively, about 353 km of
the paved primary network; (ii) resurfacing about 3,000 km of the total primary network
(including unpaved roads); and (iii) carrying out a sustained routine maintenance
program throughout the project execution period, covering at least 80 percent of the
totality of the primary road network.

        The rehabilitation program on two key roads of the primary paved network - as
identified during appraisal - was successfully executed over a total length of 353 km,
albeit with some less-than-optimal results regarding the surface quality for one of the
roads (from Boyuibe to Yacuiba). The resurfacing program only achieved about 44
percent of its original target, because of a number of factors that affected its
implementation, namely: lack of counterpart funds, internal inefficiencies of local
contractors, large quantities of variation orders due to modifications made to the original
designs, and substantial increase in the cost of asphalt as of 2005-06. At closing, about
384 km of the primary paved network had been resurfaced and about 947 km of the
primary unpaved network had been re-graveled with the drainage systems substantially
improved. By contrast, the performance of the routine maintenance program largely

                                              13
exceeded expectations. Indeed, considering that over the period of project execution, the
length of the primary network had increased from about 11,858 km to about 16,000 km
(due to transfers from the Prefecturas to the national road agency), at closing, and
compared to the 80 percent appraisal target (representing about 8,000 km), 100 percent of
the primary road network, i.e., about 16,000 km had been properly maintained.

         The impact of the rehabilitation, resurfacing, and maintenance programs on the
surface condition of the primary network has been positive, although a strict comparison
between the appraisal target and the degree of achievement at closing is difficult to make.
Indeed, the original target was to increase the percentage of the primary road network in
good condition from 19 percent to 40 percent. But, those numbers included both the
paved and unpaved portions of the network. In addition, the appreciation of “good
condition? at appraisal was based on somewhat ill-defined visual and subjective surveys.
During project execution, only two objective surveys based on roughness measurements
were made on the paved portion of the national network: the first one was carried out in
2008 by ABC Planning Department over about 2,000 km of the primary paved network
(i.e., about 50 percent of the total) and showed that the percentage of roads in good
condition with an International Roughness Index (IRI) of less than 4 m/km was in the
order of 59 percent, at the time, while the percentage in poor condition was only in the
order of 5.5 percent. The more recent comprehensive survey carried out in 2010 by an
international consulting firm on the totality of the paved portion of the national network
(about 5.500 km) showed that the proportion of paved roads in good condition (i.e., with
IRI<4 m/km) was in the order of 84 percent. It must be emphasized, however, that the
dramatic improvement achieved in the riding quality of the paved primary network is not
due only to the rehabilitation and resurfacing works undertaken and financed under the
Bank’s Credit, but also to other restoration operations carried out and financed with local
and/or other donors funds, and to the aggressive upgrading and paving programs
implemented by the Road Agency over the last 5 to 6 years. Indeed, the length of the
primary paved network has increased from about 3,500 km to nearly 5,500 km between
2002 and 2011 (representing an average rate of paving of about 250 km/year). The
condition of the unpaved portion of that network is still uncertain and its assessment
remains to be made.

3.2.2 Impact on Transport Costs and Commercial Traffic Volumes

        As shown in Table 4, the improvement achieved in the transitability of the
national road network translated ultimately into a dramatic increase in freight and bus
traffic along the two main links that were rehabilitated, helping to achieve one of the
overarching goal of the project and of the CAS. Regarding the reduction in freight and
passenger transport tariffs, mixed results were obtained. This evaluation finds that this
outcome is due to an untested choice of indicators, the value of which was impacted by
the unforeseen volatility and increase in the price of fuel and lubricating oil (as well as in
vehicle spare parts, such as tires), that occurred since the appraisal.




                                             14
        Table 4 Comparing base-line, target and achieved values for outcome indicators

Indicators          Link              Base-line (Nov.   Target at mid-   Target at       Achieved at      Achieved at
                                      2002)             term             closing (Dec.   mid-term (Dec.   closing (June
                                                        (Dec.2005)       2007)           2006)            2011)
Freight             La Paz-Oruro      36 US$/ton        N/A              31 US$/ton      27.4 US$/ton     44.2 US$/ton
transport tariffs                                                        (15%            (24%             (23% increase)
                                                                         reduction)      reduction_
                    Boyuibe-Yacuiba   36 US$/ton        N/A              31 US$/ton      18.6 US$/ton     33.7 US$/ton
                                                                         (15%            (48%             (6% reduction)
                                                                         reduction)      reduction)
Passengers          La Paz-Oruro      15 Bolivianos     N/A              13 Bs (15%      13.05 Bs (13%    15.3 Bolivianos
transport tariffs                                                        reduction)      reduction)       (2% increase)
                    Santa Cruz-       120 Bolivianos    N/A              109 Bs (10%     50 Bs (58%       37.2 Bolivianos
                    Yacuiba                                              reduction)      reduction)       (69%
                                                                                                          reduction)
Number of           Patacamaya-       400/day           464/day (16%     512/day (28%    453/day (13%     867/day (117%
bus/day             Caracollo                           increase)        increase)       increase)        increase)
                    Villamontes-      60/day            70/day (16%      77/day (28%     197/day (228%    370/day (516%
                    Yacuiba                             increase)        increase)       increase)        increase)
Number of           Calamarca-Oruro   450/day           522/day (16%     576/day (28%    516/day (15%     983/day (118%
trucks/day                                              increase)        increase)       increase)        increase)
                    Boyuibe-Yacuiba   300/day           348/day (16%     384/day (28%    401/day (34%     476/day (59%
                                                        increase)        increase)       increase)        increase)


        All in all, the results indicate a positive trend in achieving the target values,
particularly when inflation is taken account of.

3.2.3 Strengthening of country’s capacity to manage road assets

         Given the ambitious scope of the institutional strengthening component of the
project and the challenging times that it faced during its execution, including the
restructuring of the national highway agency at the end of 2006, and the severe flooding
that immediately followed and affected the country early 2007, the strengthening of
institutions came out far from meeting its original expectations. As summarized below,
there are some areas in which progress achieved was substantial, while in many others
progress was modest or insignificant.

         The milestone achievement of the project was the management of the routine
maintenance of the national road network, and in particular the development of
performance-based contracts with micro-enterprises. Despite the difficulties arising from
the lack of counterpart funds, and the gradual expansion of the national network from
10,000 km at appraisal to 16,000 km at closing, the routine maintenance activities have
been adequately carried out throughout project execution. Some 50 unit-price contracts
covering individual lengths of about 300 km are currently in the hands of small to
medium-size firms that attend the recurrent maintenance of the pavements (pothole
patching, crack sealing, grading of unpaved roads etc), while some 486 micro-enterprises
under the supervision of ABC regional engineers are taking care of miscellaneous
activities, such as bush clearing and the cleaning of culverts and other drainage system
features.

       By contrast, the pilot rehabilitation of about 200 km of roads on the secondary
network and the objective of an effective collaboration between the SNC/ABC and the
four selected Prefecturas towards developing and implementing network-based road
maintenance plans, came out well below expectations. Although formal agreements to

                                                           15
that effect were signed between the national and departmental road agencies, little
progress in implementation ensued. In Oruro, only two bridges were constructed while a
contract for the rehabilitation of a 15 km-long gravel road only achieved a 20 percent
progress rate, at project completion, because of the Contractor’s frail financial capacity.
Likewise, in Chuquisaca, a contract signed in 2010 for the improvement of an 87 km-
long unpaved road, could not be materialized, due to the Contractor’s weak execution
capacity. In the Prefectura of La Paz no civil works were undertaken. However, with
the assistance of the Bank, a multi-year program of interventions for the mostly unpaved
road network was established using the HDM model. In addition, the procurement, with
Bank’s financial assistance, of an important stock of equipment to strengthen the capacity
of the SEPCAM to carry out project design and supervision as well as network surveys
was substantially completed towards the end of the project (acquisition of laboratory
equipment, vehicles and road survey equipment). In the Department of Tarija, no
progress was achieved.

        The Road Safety Initiative that aimed to reduce accident rates in Bolivia started
well during the 2002-2006 period, but was dismantled soon after the new administration
took office at the end of 2006. It was reinvigorated between 2007 and 2010, thanks to a
technical assistance provided by the Nordic Development Fund. Within the framework
of the creation of a National Road Safety Strategy, a Supreme Decree (No. 29293),
promulgated in 2007, approved the National Road Safety Plan and helped create the
Inter-institutional Council of Road Safety. Also, a Manual on traffic control including
road horizontal marking and vertical signs was developed in 2008 with the financial
assistance of CAF. However, in the end, the project fell short of achieving the
development and implementation of an Accident Information System in the Departments
of La Paz and Santa Cruz, because of the poor performance of the Consultant assigned to
the task. Currently, ABC is considering the possibility of implementing a series of
actions identified by the Bank, including further training, and the inclusion in the traffic
control Manual of a special chapter on road safety audits.

        Overall, and regarding the strengthening of the national road agency’s capacity in
planning, contract management, procurement and financial management, as well as
works supervision, the project helped achieve some progress through the technical
assistance sub-component, including:

      The acquisition of two sets of roughness measurement equipment, and a falling
       weight deflectometer to measure pavement surface and structural strength;
      The carrying out, in 2010, of the first comprehensive primary road network
       inventory with objective measurements of pavement strength and surface defects
       (including roughness), as well as traffic surveys, with the financial assistance of
       the Nordic Development Fund; and on the basis of which a multi-year program of
       road investments (paving, rehabilitation and maintenance), using the HDM model
       could be carried out;
      The provision of further training in procurement and financial management, as
       well as the technical assistance to supervise the rehabilitation and resurfacing
       works on the national network, throughout the project execution period.



                                            16
       It is also worth mentioning that with a view to diversify its road asset
management modalities, ABC - with the assistance of the Inter-American Development
Bank - has launched an important study on the execution of performance-based type of
contracts for the rehabilitation and maintenance of about 500 km of the national primary
paved network, the first phase of which is currently being implemented.

       Finally, regarding the objective of adopting adequate policies on staff recruitment
and salaries, the process that had been completed with some success during the last few
years of existence of the SNC and which had been put in place by project appraisal, fell
through in 2010, with ABC. The agenda for reform in staff salaries and incentives met
stern opposition from the Ministry of Finance of the administration that took over in
2006. In addition, since the creation of ABC, managerial positions have been reshuffled
a number of times: For example the General Director has changed four times between
2006 and 2010, and the Head of the Road Maintenance Department has changed six
times.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 Comparison between the Unit Costs of Rehabilitation and Maintenance at
appraisal and at closing

        Table 5 shows a comparison between the unit costs estimated at appraisal and
those finally achieved for the main sub-components of works financed under the project.
As can be seen, apart from the rehabilitation of the two important links of primary paved
network that costs less than expected at appraisal (because of few variation orders due to
design modifications and to a period of implementation that preceded the dramatic
increase in the cost of asphalt as of 2005-2006), the other sub-components and
particularly the resurfacing of the primary paved network suffered an important increase
in cost. Such overruns were due: (i) to significant variation orders and increases in the
quantities of items of works, resulting from modifications to the original designs, and (ii)
to the surge in the cost of asphalt during a protracted execution period of the works, from
2004 to 2011. Indeed, a number of periodic overlay contracts whose original execution
period was about 6 to 8 months (between 2004 and 2005), were only completed in 2009-
2011, i.e., some 5 to 7 years after contract signing. On balance, the increase in the unit
cost of the physical sub-components of the project relative to the original contract values
amounts to about 29 percent. In the following two tables, the final unit cost of asphalt
concrete overlays and the cost of supervision as a percentage of the total cost of works is
shown.




                                            17
                                     Table 5. Final Unit Costs compared to Appraisal and Original Contract values


                                                                                          Appraisal      Original
Works                                     Length (km)            Execution Period         Estimate       Contract     Final Cost      Variation Relative to:
                                                                                                                                                     Original
                                       Planned       Actual    Planned        Actual       US$/km        US$/km         US$/km       Appraisal      contract
Rehabilitation Paved Roads               353          353     2003-2005     2004-2005      103,088       69,967         82,855        -19.6%         18.4%
Rehabilitation Unpaved (Beni)              0          181     2007-2008     2007-2010      40,997        54,027         54,027        31.8%           0.0%
Periodic Paved Roads                                 133.5    2003-2005     2004-2006      36,000        51,671         60,725        68.7%          17.5%
Periodic Unpaved Roads                  3,000         947     2003-2005     2004-2006      36,000        11,145         11,129        -69.1%          -0.1%
Periodic Paved Roads                                 250.5    2003-2005     2004-2011      36,000        68,278         125,259       247.9%         83.5%
Total                                   3,353        1,865    2003-2005     2004-2011      49,185        37,011         47,747         -2.9%         29.0%
Routine Maintenance (per year)          10,600       13,900   2002-2007     2002-2011       1,960                        2,165        10.5%
N.B.
Values in italic derived from the PAD (that did not discriminate between the unit costs of resurfacing with gravel and/or with asphalt concrete)
The "appraisal" figure indicated for Beni Emergency corresponds to estimate at project preparation towards end of 2006 and beginning of 2007


                                      Table 6. Final Unit Costs                                       Table 7. Supervision Cost

                                        of Asphalt concrete Overlay

                                         Thickness of         Unit Cost
                                          Overlay cm          US$/km                                              US$
                                                 2             46,394                                     Works         Superv.     % Superv.
                                                 3             68,212                    Cala-Oru      15,310,351     1,004,886         7%
                                                 4             90,030                    Boy.-Yacu.    13,937,588     1,684,627        12%
                                                 5             118,848                   Beni           1,583,447       226,375        14%
                                                 6             133,666                   Beni           3,262,297       343,942        11%
                                                 8             177,302                   Beni           5,140,574       341,926         7%
                                                10             220,938
                                      N.B. Carpet alone # 70% of total




3.3.2 Ex-post Economic Evaluation

        An ex-post economic evaluation was carried out using the HDM model for the
two main links rehabilitated under the first component of the project (Calamarca-Oruro
and Botuibe-Yacuiba) and for a representative sample of the periodic maintenance
(asphalt concrete overlays/resurfacing) executed over the paved portion of the primary
network. The following table shows the comparison between the appraisal estimates and
the ex-post estimates.

                 Table 8. Comparing economic evaluation results between appraisal and actual

 Component                                  IERR % at appraisal                         IERR % at completion
 Rehabilitation                             27%                                         56%
 Overlay Resurfacing                        >30%                                        47%

         The higher rate of return obtained ex-post for the rehabilitation component is due
to a combination of three factors: (i) the lower final cost of the works as compared to
appraisal; (ii) the increase in traffic volumes that occurred since the appraisal; and (iii)
the 20 year analysis period taken in the ex-post evaluation, compared to the 10-year
period taken ex-ante (that failed to capture all the benefits of the project). A comparison
for the periodic maintenance sub-component is difficult to make because the appraisal
figure for the rate of return is not explicit (above 30%). However, the ex-post analysis
confirmed that despite the increase in the cost of the overlays and because of an increase
in traffic volumes since the appraisal, the average internal economic rate of return for that
sub-component remains high, standing at 47%. Further details are given in Annex 4.

                                                                               18
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

        The overall outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory for the
following reasons: (i) the successful rehabilitation and resurfacing of key segments
representing nearly 20 percent of the primary paved national network, helped improve
significantly the riding quality of the network, while commercial traffic volumes have
increased along the main corridors of the country, enabling to achieve the main
development objective of the project, in terms of improved transitability, accessibility
and transport interconnections; (ii) the operation yielded ex-post economic returns much
higher than the opportunity cost of capital; and (iii) some progress in institutional
strengthening has been achieved, particularly in the institutionalization of the routine
maintenance of the primary road network, a practice that now seems to be firmly
entrenched in the country.
        However, adverse economic and political conditions (leading in the mid-term of
project implementation to the dismantling of what by then was a reformed SNC and the
creation of a new entity), frail institutions (both at national and departmental levels),
insufficient government commitment to provide counterpart funds, and natural disasters
constrained implementation and attainment of the major development objective to
strengthen the country’s capacity to manage its road assets.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
        Solid international evidence shows that investment in infrastructure is an impor-
tant determinant of economic growth, and helps reduce inequality and fosters develop-
ment of small to medium-size enterprises, which in turn plays a critical role in job crea-
tion and poverty reduction. This project was a success in that regard, since it was key in
promoting the development of small firms and micro-enterprises for the execution of rou-
tine maintenance. Some 530 such enterprises are currently involved in those activities on
the national road network, creating more than 4000 direct jobs every year, (with monthly
incomes ranging from US$200 to 800), while generating, according to ABC, some
23,000 indirect employment opportunities in the rural areas.

 (b)InstitutionalChange/Strengthening
         One of the most important milestones of the project is the successful design and
implementation of the routine maintenance sub-component and particularly the
development of the labor-intensive, performance-based micro-enterprises type of
contracts, supervised by ABC regional districts. At the beginning of the project, there
were only 3 micro-enterprises interested and contracted, employing about 27 members.
By the end of the project, the number of micro-enterprises soared to a record figure of
about 486, attending nearly 15,000 km of the primary network and employing the
services of about 3,420 members, about 250 or 7 percent are women. Each contract
involves about 30 km of roads and activities are mainly focused on the clearing of bushes
and the cleaning of drainage structures, all under the supervision of ABC regional
districts engineers. More recently, some of those enterprises have been trained and are
now capable of executing works in the areas of road safety (pavement horizontal

                                           19
marking), drainage systems, environmental improvement features and bridge repairs.
Both the system of unit-price contracts with small to medium firms and the performance-
based micro-enterprises contract are now well institutionalized and firmly established in
Bolivia.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
         At the time of this evaluation, the risk that development outcomes will not be
maintained is rated moderate for the following reasons: (i) civil works for road
rehabilitation and resurfacing constituted almost 95% of the total financial scope of the
project, and economic re-evaluations show that for the sections of roads that have been
improved, the project has achieved, so far, an acceptable level of net benefits; (ii) with
the routine maintenance policy that was implemented during the project and is now
firmly entrenched in the country, sustainability is not at risk, as the rehabilitated and
resurfaced segments of the project will probably be adequately maintained in the near to
medium future; (iii) government’s commitment to financially support the national road
agency seems strong, as evidenced by the dramatic increase in budgetary resources
assigned to that entity over the last 10 years (the annual budget increased from about US$
115 million to about 350 million, i.e., at an annual rate of about 20 percent), while the
next 5-year plan allows for an annual budget ranging between US$ 450 and 550 million;
(iv) Bank’s presence in the road sector will continue throughout the implementation of
the recently approved National Roads and Airport Infrastructure Project (approved on
May, 5 2011), thus helping to advance the institutional strengthening of the road agency;
and (v) the sustained application of the HDM model ensures that road projects are now
selected and prioritized on the basis of their economic viability.
         However, and despite those optimistic outlooks, sustainability may be at risk if
the government pursues and applies the policies that it has recently embraced, including:
(i) the empowerment of ABC’s regional offices, by transferring to them the responsibility
for design, supervision, and contract management of road programs, while there is no
evidence that regional capacities currently exist; (ii) the re-activation of a force-account
unit to substitute private firms in breach of their contracts; and (iii) the reduction in
earmarked funding from the gas/petrol taxes for routine maintenance (CNCV Account).




                                            20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
        On balance, the Bank performed relatively well its responsibilities in regard to
project design and quality at entry. Preparation and appraisal were thorough and
responsive to the country’s needs and some of the project risks were correctly diagnosed.
Nevertheless, and although steps towards sector reform started already during project
preparation, the institution building was very ambitious and the Bank could not have
foreseen the political developments in the country in 2005-06 that led to a major
restructuring of the national road agency. Also, the Bank did not stress enough the need
for the setting-up of an efficient project management and coordinating unit and for
comprehensive road inventory and objective pavement surface surveys. Finally, the
choice of some important project performance indicators was either deficient (for
example, the bundling of paved and unpaved roads for surface condition assessment and
appreciation) or not fully appropriate (such as transport tariffs), as those were predicated
on the assumption that the riding quality of the network is the single most important or
unique factor that impacts the value of such tariffs.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
       The Bank performed well its supervision responsibility from project effectiveness
to completion. Supervision missions were regular and timely, and became more intense
and frequent between 2005 and 2010 when the project was at risk, focusing on
implementation problems and their solutions. The Bank displayed flexibility in granting
two extensions of the closing date and in keeping the project open for a long time, thus
allowing it to have tangible physical achievements to its credit. Also, the Bank showed
intense engagement with the administration when it confronted the highly sensitive
reform of the road agency, in particular with the swift deployment of a consultant with
ample experience in the restructuring of road sector entities. Immediately after, the Bank
manifested again its support in restructuring the Credit agreement to include an additional
emergency sub-component to counteract the impact of the natural disaster that hit the
country, early 2007. Finally, to the Bank’s credit, the training and the application of the
HDM model was well received by the Borrower, and in particular the assistance provided
in developing the multi-year program of road maintenance for the Prefecture of La Paz.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
For the reasons given above, the rating for overall Bank performance is Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory
        The government had a clear concept of its development objectives in the highway
sector and of the assistance expected from the Bank. However, it failed to recognize the
limitations of its capacity to adequately implement the project and underestimated the

                                            21
complexity of institution building. Furthermore, and despite several instances when the
Bank missions called the Borrower’s attention to the problem, adequate local funding
needed to carry out the periodic maintenance component remained an intractable problem
throughout project implementation.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
        Throughout project execution and because of persistent changes in staff within the
implementing agency, the managerial effectiveness in Bolivia’s highway administration
has been relatively weak. Less-than-optimal technical, procurement and financial
management capacity has been at the root of the excessive variation orders and delays
that plagued the execution of civil works contracts. Monitoring of critical indicators such
as pavement surface condition lagged behind and prevented a proper evaluation of the
extent to which some key development objectives were being achieved. Nevertheless,
the executing agency is to be commended for the success that the routine maintenance
sub-component has enjoyed during the course of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
       This rating is justified, based on the above-mentioned Borrower’s shortcomings.


6. Lessons Learned

     The main lesson learnt from the implementation of the project stems from the
experience with institution building which was one of the principal problem area of the
operation, having as its object the improved management and staffing of the national and
departmental highway agencies. The difficulties encountered tend to suggest that, re-
gardless of how well intentioned, institution building cannot be effected as an enclave
undertaking in one Ministry, in isolation from the general country context. Future
projects should make sure that institution building is conceived as a progressive undertak-
ing, the accomplishment of key elements being made a condition for Loan effectiveness,
and that an efficient project management and coordinating unit is set up early in the life
of the project.
     The lack of availability of counterpart local funds was a recurrent problem in
project implementation. Although this problem is a common denominator in a broad sec-
tion of Bank projects, Bank’s participation and cost sharing percentages on key compo-
nents, such as periodic maintenance, should be increased in order to ensure that the lack
of matching funds does not affect the implementation of those critical elements.
     In hindsight, the project was conceived to move at once on perhaps too large a
front. Indeed, the prospects for the project were predicated on an optimistic outlook of
institutional stability within the government and the highway agency. The unfolding of
events did not bear out those optimistic predictions. In such a case, it would have been
preferable to focus on progressively attainable objectives, more in line with SNC/ABC
absorptive capacities.
     When selecting indicators to assess project performance, care should be exer-
cised to ensure that such indicators are not dependent on factors that are beyond the pow-

                                            22
er of the project to control. The choice of freight or passenger transport tariffs as key per-
formance indicators to measure the improvement of transport inter-connections across
Bolivian regions, without more detailing such as comparative changes in prices, proved
to be inadequate and not fully reliable as such tariffs depended not only on the condition
and riding quality of the network but also on factors such as world market prices, includ-
ing the cost of vehicles and their spare parts as well as the cost of fuel and lubricating
oils. The increase of those costs during project implementation counteracted the benefits
obtained from the improvement in the condition of the network and caused, in few cases,
the final targets expected for the tariffs not to be met.
      The objective of achieving coordination between the national and the departmen-
tal road agencies, including technical assistance from the former via-a-vis the latter, was
too optimistic, even though it included only four Prefecturas. Indeed, experience from
other Bank-financed highway projects in the Region (in Brazil and Argentina, for exam-
ple) shows that when capacity is weak in one or both levels of government and because
of the existence of a certain degree of antagonism between them, the policy of having
separate and direct loans can help accomplish better results and greater achievement of
project development objectives.
      On a more positive note, this project has also shown that the promotion and de-
velopment of performance-based micro-enterprises contracts for road maintenance can be
achieved and materialized in an environment where there is a low-cost and available la-
bor force, and when it is supported by adequate funding arrangements and proper incen-
tive mechanisms (such as training).


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrow did not raise any issues nor provide any comments on the ICR.

(b) Co-financiers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                             23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal Estimate                                    Variation relative
Components                                                     Estimate (USD
                                            (USD millions)                                        to Appraisal
                                                               millions)
1.Rehabilitation works on key
segments of the national                    36.4                       42.5                       +16.7%
network
     1.1 Paved network                                                 31.6
     1.2 Unpaved network                                               10.9
2. Pilot program of
rehabilitation on secondary                 5.7                        2.45                       -57.0%
road network
3. Road Maintenance national
account and resurfacing                     211.84                     393.1                     +85.5%
program
4. Technical Assistance                     28.25                      10.2                       -64%
4.1 Road safety Initiative                  1.35
 4.2 Pre-investment studies                 5.06
4.3 Supervision of works                    19.53
    4.4 Audits                              1.74
    4.5 Impact assessment                   0.57
5. Institutional strengthening              1.82                       2.8                        +56%
    5.1 Consolidation of
                                            1.41
institutional reforms
    5.3 Develop information
                                            0.18
management system
5.5 Provision of training                   0.23
TOTAL                                       284.0                      451.0                      +59%

N.B.  The large final amount for Component 3, compared to appraisal estimate, is due to the fact that it incorporates the
expenditures incurred for routine maintenance between 2008 and 2011 (beyond the original closing date) and financed with
local funds for an amount of about US$ 332 million. By contrast, actual periodic maintenance costs incurred amounted to
about US$ 61 million (for about 1,330 km) compared to an appraisal estimate of US$ 108 million (for 3,000 km)

(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal                Actual/Latest
                                                                                                     Variation
                                                  Type of     Estimate                 Estimate
Source of Funds                                                                                      relative to
                                                  Cofinancing (USD                     (USD
                                                                                                     appraisal
                                                              millions)                millions)
 Borrower                                                     207                      364           +75.4%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                    89.3(98.3)*        88                 -10%
and Development
*




                                                            24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Table 2.1 Outputs by Component
Component                        Output Indicators                  Base Line                        Achieved at Closing
 Rehabilitation of priority      353 km rehabilitated               0 km                             353 km rehabilitated
segments of the national paved
road network
 Eligible sections of the        200 km rehabilitated               0 km                             Only 2 bridges completed
secondary network rehabilitated
Strengthen management            90% of the national road network   74% routinely maintained in      100% of 16,000 km
capacity in supervision,         is appropriately maintained with   2002 (i.e., 8762 km of a total   appropriately maintained
maintenance and road safety      micro-enterprises and/or           of 11,818 km)
and improved inter-institutional maintenance contracts
coordination with Prefecturas    Procedures and systems for         N/A                              Substantially achieved at
                                 implementation of transparent                                       SNC, with some moderate
                                 and efficient procurement,                                          shortfalls. Partly achieved
                                 contract, and financial                                             with ABC
                                 management implementation at
                                 the SNC by project mid-term and
Maintenance of road network      through project end
carried out with appropriate     Quality control management         N/A                              Substantially achieved
contractual arrangement with     systems installed at the SNC by                                     with SNC. Certification
private contractors and micro-   project mid-term, allowing                                          ISO 9001 in progress
enterprises and properly funded  compliance with timetable of
                                 Procurement Plan
                                 80% of counterpart disbursements   N/A                              Partially achieved:
                                 (from Prefecturas) for donor-                                       disbursements made
                                 financed road projects made                                         within 4 to 6 months
                                 effective within three months of
                                 request
                                 80% of periodic and routine        N/A                              Partially achieved:
                                 maintenance needs covered with                                      Routine maintenance fully
                                 sustained resources (from road                                      funded but Periodic
                                 users’ charges)                                                     maintenance needs only
                                                                                                     partially covered
                                 80% of routine maintenance of      N/A                              100% of the national road
                                 the national road network                                           network appropriately
                                 appropriately carried out with                                      carried out with micro-
                                 microentreprises and/or                                             enterprises and unit-price
                                 maintenance contracts and                                           maintenance contracts
                                 achieving planned maintenance
                                 targets by project end
                                 Accident information systems       N/A                              No accident information
                                 developed and operational in the                                    system developed and
                                 Department of La Paz and Santa                                      operational yet.
                                 Cruz with appropriate external
                                 linkages to key stakeholders by
                                 project end
                                 Options for institutional          N/A                              Through Supreme Decree
                                 framework for road safey                                            29293 enacted in 2007 a
                                 developed on preferred                                              National Plan for Road
                                 institutional structure made, by                                    Safety was approved and
                                 project end                                                         an Inter-institutional
                                                                                                     Council for Road Safety
                                                                                                     was created.




                                                              25
Table 2.2 Outcome Indicators related to Sector and CAS Goal
Sector-Related CAS           Sector Outcome                    Base Line (Nov.2002)          Achieved at Mid-            Achieved at
Goal                         Indicators                                                      term (Dec.2006)             Closing (June
                                                                                                                         2011)
Improve transport inter-     Freight transport tariffs per     US$ 36                        US$/ton 27.4: from La       44.2 US$/ton from La
connections across           ton from la Paz to Oruro and                                    Paz to Oruro (24%           Paz to Oruro
Bolivian regions,            from Boyuibe to Yacuiba                                         reduction);
facilitating their           reduced by 15% at constant                                      US$18.6 from Boyuibe        33.7 US$/ton from
integration into the         value, at project completion                                    to Yacuiba (48%             Boyuibe to Yacuiba
country’s economic and                                                                       reduction)
local activities
                             Passenger transport tariffs per   15 Bolivianos (from La Paz    13.05 Bolivianos from       15.32 Bolivianos from
                             person reduced by 15% from        and Oruro)                    La Paz to Oruro (13%        La Paz to Oruro
                             La Paz to Oruro and by 10%,       120 Bolivianos (from Santa    reduction)                  37 Bovianos from
                             from Santa Cruz to Yacuiba,       Cruz and Yacuiba)             50 Bolivianos from          Santa Cruz to Yacuiba
                             at project completion                                           Santa Cruz to Yacuiba
                                                                                             (58% reduction)
                             Number of Bus trips per day       400 bus/day (between          453 bus/day between         867 bus/day in 2010
                             increased by 16% by the end       Paracamaya and Caracollo);    Paramaya and Caracollo      compared to final
                             of the third year between         60 bus/day (between           (13% increase)              target of 512 bus/day
                             Paracamaya and Caracollo          Villamontes and Yacuiba)      197 bus/day between         370 bus/day in 2010
                             and between Villamontes and                                     Boyuibe and Yacuiba         compared to final
                             Yacuiba, and by 28% by                                          (228% increase)             target of 77 bus/day
                             project end


Table 2.3 Outcome Indicators for the Project Development Objective
Project Development             Key Outcome                         Base Line (Nov. 2002)         Achieved at Mid-          Achieved at
Objective                       performance Indicator                                             term (Dec.2006)           Closing (June
                                                                                                                            2011)
Improve transitability and      Number of freight transport         450 trucks/day between        516 trucks/day            983 trucks/day
accessibility through the       units (trucks) between              Calamarca and Oriro;          between Calamarca         in 2010
rehabilitation of key           Calamarca and Oruro and                                           and Oruro (15%            compared to
segments of the national        between Boyuibe and                 300 trucks/day between        increase)                 final target of
and secondary road              Yacuiba increased by 18%            Boyuibe and Yacuiba           401 trucks/day            576 trucks/day
network, and                    at third year of project and                                      between Boyuibe           476 trucks/day
                                by 28% by project end                                             and Yacuiba (34%          in 2010
                                                                                                  increase)                 compared to
                                                                                                                            final target of
                                                                                                                            384 trucks/day
                                Percentage of national road         19% in good condition         44% in good               84% in good
                                network in good condition                                         condition (visual         condition with
                                increased to 30% at project                                       survey). 59% in           IRI< 4 m/km,
                                mid-term and to 40% at                                            good condition            based on
                                project completion                                                based on IRI              roughness
                                                                                                  measurements in           measurements
                                                                                                  2008                      carried out in
                                                                                                                            2010
Strengthen the country;s        Timely preparation and              No annual report              Annual reports            Annual Reports
capacity to manage its          public dissemination of an                                        published in 2002-        published
road assets                     annual report on operational                                      2003-2004-2005            between 2002
                                and financial performance                                                                   and 2010
                                of CNCV
                                Network-based road                  No network-based plans        Partially achieved        Partially
                                maintenance plans and                                             with Prefecturas of       achieved with
                                budgets at 4 participating                                        La Paz and Oruro          Prefectura of La
                                Prefecturas (SEPCAMs)                                                                       Paz
                                developed and implemented
                                (with indication of
                                maintenance activities costs
                                and productivities)
                                100% of SNC’s managerial            N/A                           Substantially             Substantially
                                and technical staff appointed                                     achieved for the          achieved for the
                                on the basis of managerial                                        SNC, but failed to        SNC, but failed
                                and technical merits and                                          be achieved, so far,      to be achieved,
                                appropriate budgeting of                                          with ABC                  so far, with ABC
                                salaries by project mid-term
                                and through project end
                                Legal framework as                  N/A                           New legal                 New legal
                                established by Law 2064                                           framework: SNC            framework:
                                and Supreme Decree 2636                                           dissolved and ABC         SNC dissolved
                                upheld through project end.                                       created                   and ABC
                                                                                                                            created



                                                                        26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Main Assumptions
        An ex-post economic evaluation was carried out using the HDM Model (Version
3) both for the rehabilitation and the resurfacing components of the project. For the
rehabilitation component, the analysis concerned the two key segments Calamarca-Oruro
and Boyuibe-Yacuiba. For the resurfacing component, a representative sample was
selected (about 30% of the total length resurfaced with asphalt concrete). The main
assumptions and input data used in the Model were as follows:
     Period of analysis: 20 years.
     Discount rate: 12%.
     Future growth of traffic: 4% per annum.
     First year of analysis: actual year when rehabilitation and/or resurfacing was
        completed.
     First year capital investment: final actual cost of rehabilitation and/or resurfacing;
     Initial traffic volume: actual ADT measured at year of completion of works.
     Rehabilitation/Resurfacing solutions: actual thickness of overlays, as executed.
     Vehicle fleet data costs: Actual and more recent values (See table below).
     Operation unit costs of strategies: Actual more recent values (see table below).
     The “without project? or base strategy: consists in carrying out routine
        maintenance, including the patching of all potholes, and reconstructing the
        pavement when the roughness reaches a value of IRI of 8 m/km.
     The “with project? strategy: consists of carrying out the actual overlays as
        executed and to apply a second overlay of 5 cm when the roughness reaches a
        value of IRI of 6 m/km.

                                           Vehicle Fleet Data

Basic Characteristics      Cars    Pick-up     Bus         Light truck   Medium   Heavy truck   Articulated
                                                                         truck
Gross vehicle weight (t)   1.5     2.8         17          5             15.5     19.7          42.7
ESAL factor per vehicle    0       0           3.9         0.2           2.7      4.8           5.3
Number of axles            2       2           2           2             2        3             4
Number of Tires            4       4           6           4             6        6             18
Number of passengers       3       3           35          1             1        1             1
Vehicle Utilization
Service life (yrs)         15      15          15          15            15       15            11
Hours driven per year      500     750         1000        1200          1280     1280          1280
Km driven per year         30000   45000       55000       48000         60000    64000         64000
Depreciation Code          2       2           2           2             2        2             2
Utilization Code           1       3           3           3             3        3             3
Annual Interest rate %     12      12          12          12            12       12            12
Economic Unit Cost
New vehicle price (US$)    21000   26040       10768       30000         44924    73802         110000
                                               3
New Tire price (US$)       86      249         178         249           321      357           357
Maintenance labor          2.05    2.05        2.05        2.05          2.05     2.05          2.05
(US$/hr)
Crew Cost (US$/crew-hr)    1.8     1.8         1.8         2.7           3.1      3.1           3.1
Passenger time (US$/pa-    1.45    1.45        0.64        0             0        0             0
hr)

                                                      27
Cargo time (US$/veh-hr)       0             0          0            0          0.07              0.07          0.07
Gas/Petrol (US$/lt)           0.45
Diesel price (US$/lt)         0.45
Lubricants price (US$/lt)     3


                                                  Operation Unit Costs

Operation
Unpaved Roads
Grading (US$/km)                            109                                   95
Spot regraveling (US$/cu.m)                 25                                    21
Gravel resurfacing (US$/cu.m)               20                                    17
Unpaved routine maintenance                 1,960                                 1,700
(US$/km/yr)
Paved Roads
Patching (US$/sq.m)                         30                                    26
Resealing (US$/sq.m)                        3.5                                   3
Overlay 5 cm (US$/sq.m)                     18                                    16
Reconstruction (US$/sq.m)                   20                                    17.7
Paved routine maintenance                   2,350                                 2,040
(US$/km/yr)
Construction (Thousands US$/km)             500                                   375


Results of the Economic Evaluation

       The following Table summarizes the results of the evaluation. As can be seen, the
ex-post economic returns are high and generally exceed the values estimated at appraisal.

Component         Rehabilitation                       Resurfacing
Road section      Calamarca-         Boyuibe-          Rio Seco-        Yamparez-         Tiquina-      San Isidro-
                  Oruro              Yacuiba           Huarina          Sucre-Tambo       Copacabana    Epinoza
Length, km        172                181               58               29                40            41
Final Cost        15.5               15.4              5.6              3                 4.3           3.6
US$M
ADT ex-post       1,436              939               2,815            638               408           800
IERR %            81.3               32                80.2             28.3              13.7          45.7
NPV, US$M         24.6               11.8              13.7             14.8              15.5          11.8
Weighted IERR     56%                                  47%
Total NPV,        31.8                                 14.7
US$M
Appraisal IERR    27%                                  > 30%
%




                                                               28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
Names                      Title                            Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao    Sr Highway Engineer              ECSS5
Stephen Jeremy Brushett    Lead Transport Specialist        LCSTR
Miriam Cespedes            Program Assistant                LCSPT
Cecilia Claudia Corvalan   Senior Transport Economist       LCSTR
Vickram Cuttaree           Senior Infrastructure Economis   ECSS5
Hernan Fernandez
                           Consultant                       LCSTR
Ordonez
Maria Lucy Giraldo         Senior Procurement Specialist LCSPT
Jose Luis Irigoyen         Director                       TWI
Alvaro Larrea              Senior Procurement Specialist LCSPT
Gerard L. Liautaud         Consultant                     LCSTR
Lourdes Consuelo Linares   Sr Financial Management Specia LCSFM
Ruth Llanos                Social Development and Civil S LCSSO
Hector Miguel Mansilla     Consultant                     LCSTR
Aurelio Menendez           Sector Manager                 LCSTR
Samuel Jose Murillo        Consultant                     LCSTR
Gylfi Palsson              Lead Transport Specialist      LCSTR
Daniel O. Pulido Sabogal   Junior Professional Associate  LCSTR
Alejandro Marcos Tapia     Energy Spec.                   LCSEG
Raul Tolmos                Environmental Spec.            LCSEN
Marco Antonio Zambrano
                           Consultant                       AFTEG
Chavez
Alonso Zarzar Casis        Sr Social Scientist              LCSSO
Licette Moncayo            Program Assistant                LCSTR




                                           29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                       7                        41.49
  FY01                                      20                       142.74
  FY02                                      21                       116.07
  FY03                                       3                         0.05
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            51                       300.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                                 0.00
  FY01                                                                 0.07
  FY02                                                                 8.90
  FY03                                   17                           74.82
  FY04                                   20                           71.61
  FY05                                   20                           52.93
  FY06                                   28                           81.86
  FY07                                   36                          152.56
  FY08                                   33                          169.60
  FY09                                   29                          145.17
  FY10                                   20                          127.11
  FY11                                   21                          114.64
  FY12                                    2                           31.61
                          Total:         226                        1030.80




                                       30
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrow did not prepare its own ICR nor provide comments on this ICR.




                                         31
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Central (IRIS). Monthly and Semi-Annual Progress Reports. 2003-2010

Servicio Nacional de Caminos. Gerencia de Planificación y Desarrollo Tecnológico. Es-
tadística Vial 1999-2003.

Servicio Nacional de Caminos. Memoria de Gestión 2004-2005

Servicio Nacional de Caminos. Memoria de Gestión 2006

Administradora Boliviana de Carreteras. Memoria Institucional Gestión 2007-08-09

The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of
SDR 62 million (US$ 77 million equivalent) to the Republic of Bolivia for the Road Re-
habilitation and Maintenance Project March 15, 2002. report no. 23625-BO

The World Bank. Development Credit Agreement (Road rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project) between Republic of Bolivia and International Development Association. April
23, 2002 Credit Number 3630-BO.

The World Bank. Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions. January 2000- May 2011

The World Bank. Implementation Status and Results Reports 18 documents May 2002-
May 2011

Administradora Boliviana de Carreteras. Estudio de Impacto Sept.2011

Louis Berger and J. Tosticarelli: Inventario Vial de la Red Fundamental. 2010




                                           32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 31797R
                                    68°                                               66°                                                 64°                                                          62°                                              60°                                                                  10°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BOLIVIA
10°             BRAZIL                                                 un
                                                                          á                                                                                                            R OA D R E H A B I L I TAT I O N A N D
                                                                     Ab
                                                                R.
                                                                                            Guajará                                                                                       MAINTENANCE PROJECT
                                                                                             Mirim                                                                                           KEY ENGINEERING COMPONENTS
                                                        Nacebe
                                                                                            Riberalta                                                                                                REHABILITATION WORKS ON NATIONAL NETWORK
             Cobija                       P A N D O




                                                                                                        R.
                                                                                                         Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                     PREFECTURES PARTICIPATING IN PILOT OF REHABILITATION
                         Porvenir




                                                                                                             mo
                                             Conquista                                                                                                                                               OF SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                      12°




                                                                                                               ré
12°                                                                                                                                                                                                  PERIODIC MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (FIRST YEAR)
                                           s




                                                     Blanca Flor
                                          io
                                         D




                                                                                            ata
                                      de
                                    re




                                                                                        R. Y
                                                                                                                                                 R.       Ité
                                                                                                                                                              nez
                                 ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                M
                            R.




                                                                                                                                                                                  oG
                           Pto. Heath
       PERU




                                                                                                                                                                                        ua
                                                                                                                                                                                           po
                                                                                                                                                                                              ré                                                                           MAIN RAILROADS
                                          Z




                                                                                                                                         San Joaquín
                                                         ni




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                       Be




                                                                              L. Rogaguado
                                                      R.




                                                                                                                                                             Magdalena
                          Madidi                                                             B          E           N          I                                                                                                                                           ADMINISTRATIVE CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                           R. Baures
                                         A




                                                                                                                               L. San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (Seat of the Gvt.)
                                                                          L. Rogagua                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14°
                                                                                                                                Luís
                        Ixiamas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
14°                                                                                                                  R.
                                      P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN TOWNS


                                                                                                                                              R. I
                                                                                                                                                  ton
                                                         Rurrenabaque                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                   ama
                                 Apolo                                                                                    Trinidad
                                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                    Ma




   To
                                                                                                                     mo




                      Charazani
                                    A




Cuzco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRAZIL
                                                                                                                        ré




                Puerto Acosta
      Lake
                                                                                                                                                                       R.


                     Escoma                Caranavi                                                                          Mamoré                                                                                                                                                                                          16°
                                                                                                                                                                       Sa
                                                                                                                    e




        Titicaca
                                                                                                                  ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Concepción
                                 L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   San
                                                                                                                                                                        nM



16°                                                                                                                                   Río
                                                                                                               ap




                                                                                                                                                                            igu



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ignacio                                                                          To
                                                                                                              Ch




                                Huarina
                                                                                                                             R.




                                                                                                                                    Yapacani                                                        San Javier
                                             LA PAZ
                                                                                                                                                                               el




                                                                                                                                                                        R.                                                                                                            San Matías                    Brasília
        To                                                                                                                                                                 G ra
                                                           z




                                                                                                             R.




  Matarani
                                                        Pa




                                               R.                                                                                                                                 nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       San Rafael
                                                      La




                                                                                                                               Ya                                                   e
                                                                                                    Pto. Villarroel
                      Guaqui          Viacha
                                                     Inquisivi                              Villa Tunari
                                                                                                                                   pa
                                                                                                                                     c                                                          S      A N               T A
                                                                                  COCHABAMBA                                                                                                 Puerto Banegas
                                                                                                                                         an
                          R.




                      Corocoro
                                                                                                                                             i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R. Paraguay
                                                    Patacamaya
                                 Desaguadero                                                 Cochabamba Epizana                                           Montero                                    Pozo Tigre
                                                                                                                                                   Santa Cruz                                                                                          Ipias
               Charaña                                                                                                                       Mataral                                                                     San José
                                                        Oruro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sto. Corazón
18°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Roboré
                         Tambo
                         Quemado
                                                                                                                   Aiquile
                                                                                                                                                                               Abapó
                                                                                                                                                                                                    C R U Z
                                      ORURO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                            Cabezas                                                                                                                       Quijarro
                                                     L. Poopo
                                                                                                  SUCRE                      Tarabuco
                                               L. Coipasa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mutún
                       Pisige                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Santos
                                                                                            Potosí
                                                            Río Mulato                                                     Monteagudo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20°

20°                                                  Uyuni
                                                                                                                                                        Camiri                                                               PA R A G U AY
                                                    Salt Pan                  Uyuni                                CHUQUISACA                                                  Boyuíbe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To Asunción
                                                         P O T O S ?                                        Cotagaita
                                                                                                                                                                                  F’tin Villazón                 and Paranaguá

                                                                                Atocha                                                                            R.
                                                                                                                    El Puente                                        Pilc
                                                                                                                                                                         om
                                                                                                                                                                           ay
                              To                    Chiguana                                                                   Tarija                                                                                                                   60°
                                                                                                                                                                                       o




                      Antofagasta                                                             Tupiza                                         TA RI JA
                                                                                                             Balcarce                   Yacuiba                                                                                                                            B     R       A     Z      I     L
                                                                                                                                  Padcaya                                                                          22°                                                          Porto Velho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rio
22°                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PERU                        Branco                                              Area of map
                                                                                                                               R.
                                                                                                                                Ber




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIMA
                CHILE                                                                             To Salta                                             To                                                                                 Cusco
                                                                                                                                    me




                                                                                                                                                   Embarcación
                                                                                                                                        jo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ica                                           Trinidad

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Arequipa                      BOLIVIA                                        Cuiaba

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cochabamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LA
                                                                                                            ARGENTINA                                                                                                        South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Arica            PAZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Santa Cruz

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUCRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pacific
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ocean                                                     PARAGUAY
         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                           24°
24°      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                       0          50             100            150             200             250                                            Antofagasta
         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                               KILOMETERS                                                                                                                        San Miguel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ASUNCIÓN
         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                     CHILE                          de Tucuman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Resistencia
                                    68°                                               66°                                                    64°                                                        62°                                                            ARGENTINA                                 Porto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOVEMBER 2011
