                               Documentof
                              The WorldBank

                         FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                     48696



                             PROJECTPAPER


                         ON RESTRUCTURINGTHE


      BOLIVIA: ROADREHABILITATIONAND MAINTENANCEPROJECT




                             November29,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion


                                       BOLIVIA
                      RoadRehabilitation and Maintenance Project

                                     Project Paper

                          Latin America and Caribbean Region
                                        LCSTR
1.    Data Sheet




Board approved         No
                                                                      L
RVP approved           Yes

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bankpolicies?    Yes X N o
Have these beenapproved by Bankmanagement?                               Yes X N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought fiom the Board?             Yes X N o
Revisedproject development objective/outcomes [Ifapplicable]
Not applicable
Does the restructuredproject trigger any new safeguardpolicies? Ifso, click here to
indicate which one(s)

2.      IntroductoryStatement


1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Regional Vice-president to introduce
the following changes in the Bolivia Credit No. 3630 Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project, (the Project), and any accompanying amendments to the project's
legal documents: (i) extending the closing date o f the project from December 31, 2007
(original closing date) to December 31, 2009, (ii)including the rehabilitation o f an
additional 180 km o f roads in the Beni region that were affected by the floods that
severely impacted the country in the past months; and (iii)    reallocating uncommitted
finds from existing categories to finance the emergency works andsupervision activities.

3.      Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

2.    Project Performance. The SDR62 Credit (originally US$77 million which due to
variations in the exchange rate between the US$ and the SDR has increased to about
US$95 million) was approved on March 15, 2002, signed on April 23, 2002 and declared
effective onNovember 21,2002.

3.    The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to improve road transitability and
accessibility through the rehabilitation o f key segments o f the national and prefectural
(secondary) network and to strengthen the capacity at both levels to manage road assets.
The project includes the following Parts:(A) the rehabilitation o f two priority segments of
the national road network (Calamarca-San Pedro and Boyuibe-Yacuiba); (B) a pilot
component for the rehabilitation o f secondary (departmental) roads; (C) a road
maintenance and resurfacing program; @) technical assistance for studies and training;
and(E)an institutional development component.

4.    Currently, about 57% of credit proceeds have been disbursed (about US$54 million
out o f US$95 million). The disbursedamount pertains mainly to the rehabilitationworks
under Part A o f the Project, some resurfacingworks under Part C.2 o f the Project;
consulting services for the supervision o f the above mentioned works under Part D and
technical assistance under Part E.About 75% o f the undisbursed balance i s related to the
resurfacing component under Part C.2, 12% is related to the rehabilitation o f secondary
roads under Part B and an additional 8% i s related to the rehabilitation component under
PartA. A significant portion ofthe uncommitted balance is associated to the variations in
the exchange rate; however said differences are needed to: (i) compensate for the increase
inthe cost of road works experiencedinthe regionsince 2004 mainly due to the increase
inthe cost of asphalt (an overall increase of 112% has been observed between 2004 and
2007); and ifapproved, (ii) finance the emergency works inthe Beniregion.

5.    The delays and issues faced duringproject implementation are primarily due to the
convergence of the following factors : (i)a highly politicized institutional restructuring
process (between the former Servicio Nacional de Caminos-SNC- and the Administradora
Boliviana de Carreteras-ABC) following the change-over o f the administration in 2006,
that generated great uncertainty, hindered decision making, and resulted inseveral months
o f inactivity; (ii)unexpected external factors (mostly country-related) plaguing the


                                             1

implementation o f a relatively straightforward resurfacing component; (iii) than longer
expected preparatory timeframes required for the secondary roads component lingering its
implementation; (iv) emerging technical problems in the rehabilitation works o f some
segments of the Boyuibe-Yacuiba corridor requiringa special technical audit to establish
causes andpossible solutions; and most lately; (v) the aftermath o f the floods that affected
the country inearly 2007, demanding the redirection o f the implementing agency's efforts
to attend under emergency response, the most vulnerable roads (see Annex 1 for hrther
details).

6.    Even though some o f the above-mentionedproblems hadbeen identifiedin2005 and
at the time, specific measures were discussed to address them, the institutional meltdown
that followed the Government's announcement o f SNC's liquidation, created a generalized
activity slowdown. Substantial delays inthe decision making process duringthe transition
period aggravated the problems which led to the downgrading of the project ratings to
Moderately Unsatisfactory inJune 2006.

7.    Ever since and almost up to June 2007, the project remained idle while the new
institutional set-up was designed and all bylaws and regulations for its operation were
prepared and approved. Even though conditions are finally being reestablished so as to
revamp the project (as explained in fbrther detail below), it is not possible to complete the
civil works components within the remaining implementation period as ongoing works,
once reinitiated, would require at least 7 months to be finalized and new works would
require at least 18 months to be procured, contracted and executed.

8.    Agreed Action Plan to seek auuroval -for the Amendment. Given the institutional
issues described above and the need to encourage decision making, inJune 2007, the team
agreed with ABC on a realistic and forward-oriented Action Plan to be implemented
before end-September 2007, which included five areas in which ABC would need to
demonstrate substantial progress to have the project back on a sustainable track. The five
areas are: (i)consolidating ABC's institutional capacity enabling a satisfactory appraisal
o f the same; (ii)organizing a workshop to prepare a strategy to strengthen governance in
ABC; (iii)  reactivating the resurfacing component; (iv) addressing the construction issues
on the faulty segments o f Boyuibe-Yacuiba corridor; and (iv) bidding the emergency
works for the Beni region.

9.    On October 2007 a mission was carried out to verify compliance with the agreed
actions so as to justify decisions regarding the project ratings, its restructuring, and
extension. The overall conclusion of this review was that after more than 16 months o f
inactivity, ABC's management has taken decisions to address the issues and reactivate the
project components. The reactivation o f disbursements under the project represents key
evidence of this. ABC has already shown substantial progress on all the institutional and
operational aspects o f the Action Plan:

  (i)ConsolidatingABC's institutional capacity enabling its satisfactoly appraisal
      Since its creation in November 30, 2006, ABC has taken several essential steps to




                                            2

        become rapidly operational and to strengthen its institutional capacity'.                        While a
        formal appraisal o f ABC's institutional capacity will need to wait until the newly
        approved organizational structure i s fully staffed (expected by end o f March 2008),
        ABC provided evidence o f all actions being taken for the implementation o f the
        new institutional set-up. The envisaged results-oriented operational paradigm is
        satisfacto$.       ABC i s committed to undertake key actions that will help protect the
        new entity from some o f the vulnerabilities faced by the former SNC (of particular
        relevance i s the support to a proposed study to improve governance in the road
        sector).
  (ii)  Organizing of a workshop on governance to prepare a governance strategy for
       ABC. A first internal workshop was carried out in September, as a result o f which,
        several risk areas have been identified and a general Governance Map has been
        delineated. By December 2007 a second workshop with the private sector will be
        carried out to further develop the Map and identify possible mitigation measures.
 (iii)Reactivating the resurfacing component. During the past 4 months ABC has
        managed to satisfactorily address the main issues concerning the resurfacing
        contracts and as a result, today, out of 20 contracts awarded in2004: 11have been
        finalized; 6 have been reinitiated and 3 has been rescinded. With the reactivation o f
        these works, disbursements under this component are expected to increase
        significantly over the following months (a total o f US$18 millions are required to
        finalize these contracts). Actions to launch a second group o f contracts have been
       taken (during the mission, discussions regarding possible adjustments to the
        standard contracts took place to take into account the effects that the significant
       increase inthe cost of asphalt is having over these type o f contracts).
 (iv)Bidding the emergency worksfor the Beni region Cfour roads). ABC has made
       satisfactory progress towards preparing the packages and procuring the emergency
       works to repair the roads damaged by flooding inthe Beniregion.
 (v) Addressingthe constructionissues on thefaulty segmentsof theBoyuibe-Yacuiba
       corridor. Key decisions made during the last six months have allowed ABC to
       identify corrective measures to address the problems identifiedinthe corridor and a
       roadmap has been delineated based on the preliminary results o f the technical audit
       that was carried out. Upon receiving the final Audit Report (expected by end o f
       December 2007) ABC would: (a) take legal action to liquidate the current works
       and supervision contracts enabling new interventions on the road to repair the
       defects; (b) review and fine-tune the technical studies for the recommended
       solutions presented in the audit report; (c) invite bids for the execution o f the
       corrective works; (d) submit to the Contraloria General de la Repziblica the Audit
       Report for due process. In the mean time, A B C has been carrying out routine

'ABC has: (i)  compliedwith the requirements of the November 2006 Decrees (including among others, the approvalof
 the new organizational structure, evaluation of the staff transferred to ABC, approval of the regulations for the
 operation of a newly createdNational Roads Account); (ii)    designated the 4 member of the Board of Directors and 6
 managers (out of 10) through competitive processes; (iii)got approval for 2007 budget; (iv) got approval ABC's
 Institutional Strategic Plan for 2007-2011; (v) got approval of the bylaws andManualsrequiredby Law SAFCO 1178
 (Administration and Governmentalcontrol); (vi) designed and implementedatransparency and accountabilitysystem;
 (vii) obtained ISO-9000certification for its procurementmanagementandquality control system.
 ABC's Basic OperationalDesign calls for an organizationthat: (i)performs around three main principles -results,
 transparency and social control; and (ii)is structured by processes to optimize the functional specialization and
 facilitate accountabilityandcontrol.


                                                         3

      maintenance and horizontal markings in critical spots to prevent further
      deterioration and accidents. ABC has indicated that if the Credit extension i s
      granted they would request the Bank to finance the additional interventions with the
      uncommitted funds still available under this component (US$3.9 million o f credit
      proceeds).

10. Progress has also been achieved under the pilot component with the Prefecturas.
After almost four years, three Prefecturas finally have joined this pilot component and
procurement o f works has commenced in one o f them: the Prefectura de Oruro i s ready to
commence rehabilitation works on two bridges and is ready to initiate the biddingprocess
to rehabilitate a 35 km long road. Chuquisaca has submitted the required information for
the rehabilitation of an 87 kmlong road. These Prefecturas are waiting for a definition on
the extension o f the Credit before they initiate the works since they don't have any other
sources o f funding for these projects and the execution period goes beyond December 31
2007.

11. Based on the above evidence o f decision making and project revamping, the team
has recommended to request Management's approval o f the Credit amendment to extend
the closing period for two years and reallocate uncommittedfunds to a new category to be
created to finance the emergency rehabilitation works in the Beni region. During the
October 2007 mission ABC presented to the team a detailed Plan to complete the project
within the extendedperiod.

12. Audits: There are no overdue audit reports. The project audit reports for the fiscal
year 2006 has been reviewed by the Bank and the report i s acceptable. The auditors issued
unqualified opinion on the project financial statements, including SOEs and Special
Account. A qualified opinion on compliance with covenants and applicable laws and
regulations was issued due to non compliance with certain implementation arrangements
dealing with the road safety task group and delays in furnishing IDA with the progress
reports for the project by the due dates. N o material internal control weaknesses were
reported which may affect the use o f the project resources. The entity audit reports for
SNC and ABC were also received and reviewed by the Bank.               The auditors issued
qualified opinions in both cases due mainly to qualifications relating to the balance sheet
and treatment o f certain adjustments and reconciliation and valuation issues with no direct
impact inthe IDA resources.

4.      ProposedChanges

13. The proposedchanges are:

        i. ExtendtheProject's closingdate for two years untilDecember31, 2009 to
            complete the implementation o f Parts A, B and C o f the Project and the
            emergency works inthe Beni region.
        ii.ModifySchedule1oftheCreditAgreementtoincludeanewCategoryforthe
            rehabilitation works in the Beni region (see Annex 2 for a further detail o f the
            works to be included and its estimated costs).
        iii.Modifytheproject'sdescriptionwithregardstoPartAinSchedule2toreflect
            the additional 180kmrehabilitation works inthe Beniregion.


                                              4

        ix Reallocate SDR 3.7 million from Category l(c) to finance up to 65% o f the
            rehabilitation works inthe Beni region and SDR 1.57 million from Category 4
            to Category 2(a) to finance additional supervision activities.

14. The Prefecturas would provide local counterpart funds for the emergency works
(35%).

15. The revised disbursements schedule taking into consideration the new closing date
and the execution o f pendingactivities is presented intable below.




16. Emergency procurement (shopping) would be allowed for the four works inthe Beni
region. No changes are required to Schedule 3 since Other Methods o f Procurement are
already envisaged for Civil Works.

5.      Analysis

17. The Bank team carried out an appraisal o f the new rehabilitation works in the Beni
region, from a technical, economical, environmental and social view point. From a
technical perspective these works represent good engineering practice and the estimated
costs o f the works are deemed to be reasonable. Economic evaluations using the HDM-4
model show that the proposed investments yield satisfactory economic rates o f return,
above 12%.

18. The compliance with Bank's environmental and social safeguards was reviewed.
From an environmental view point: (i)    ABC preparedEnvironmental Mitigation Plans and
detailed environmental specifications have been reflected inthe biddingdocuments; (ii)     an
initial assessment o f the Environmental Unit was carried out in October 2007 and was
found acceptable; a final assessment will be carried out inMarch 2008. From a social view
point: (i)a social plan to be implemented in the context o f emergency response was
prepared in consultation with SAT and has been depicted in the bidding documents
(Annex 3); and (ii)  during the site visits to the project it was confirmed that there are no
encroachments within the right o f way and no therefore no involuntary resettlements are
expected.

6.      ExpectedOutcome

19. The proposed changes will not modify the Project Development Objectives since the
rehabilitation works in the Beni region will also contribute to improve road transitability
and accessibility inthe country.

20.   In addition, the proposed amendment is not expected to affect the Outcomes
established in Annex 1o f the Project Appraisal Document, since the rehabilitation works
inBeniwill also contribute to increase the percentage ofthenationalroadnetwork ingood
condition, which i s the only specific outcome related to the resurfacing component under


                                              5

Part C.2 o f the Project from which resources are being reallocated.     The Bank team has
requested ABC to carry out by September 2008 specific measurements on the surface and
structural condition o f the network (particularly roughness and deflection on the paved
network) to have precise and objective estimates to be used as the relevant indicators (in
particular the International Roughness Index -IN)to monitor compliance with the agreed
targets (with IN>3 representing good condition, 3<IRI<5 fair condition and IRI>S bad
condition).

21. Interms o f outputs: (i)  the proposedchanges will increase the total number of kmo f
roads rehabilitated on the primary roadnetwork by about 180km; and (ii)      the total number
o f km o f roads to be intervened under the periodic maintenance (resurfacing) component
will reach approximately 2,000 km (the original target o f about 3,000 kmwas re-assessed
duringthe Mid-Termreview since saidtarget was basedon tentative costs).

7.      Benefitsand Risks

22.   Benefits. The approval o f the amendment would enable the possibility for ABC to
complete key interventions on the primary and secondary networks and to respond to the
damages caused by the recent flood, restoring vital transportation links so that activities in
transport-dependent sectors o f the economy and critical services can be resumed. In
particular, the extension o f the closing date would allow ABC to: (i)satisfactorily
conclude the rehabilitation works over the Boyuibe-Yacuiba corridor, (ii)continue
implementing key periodic maintenance activities over the national road network, (iii)
implementseveral interventions at the Prefectural level, and (iv) carry out the emergency
works inthe Beniregion, all inlinewith the original Project Development Objectives.

23.   Most importantly, the extension would allow the Bank to continue accompanying
ABC inthe ongoing institutional reform process. Bank involvement at this critical stage i s
essential to move forward in the institutional strengthening agenda seeking increased
efficiency,    accountability, and improved governance in the new road agency.
Furthermore, the continued support to the implementation o f ABC's annual maintenance
and resurfacing Program i s fundamental to ensure the consolidation o f sound road
management strategies for the long-term sustainability o f the network. The Bank's
institutional capacity assessment to be carried out once the new organization i s hlly
operational provides a unique opportunity to build up the dialogue with ABC authorities
regarding the implementation of measures that may be needed for strengthening ABC's
planning, procurement, financial management, environmental andor social areas.

24.   Risks. Main risks are associated to the consolidation o f the institutional capacity of
the implementingagency and the feasibility o f ensuringa smooth completion of pending
activities taking into account the reform process that has been taking place inthe past few
months. To this effect:

    (i)Anassessmentofthefinalinstitutionalarrangementswillbecarriedoutduringthe
         first semester o f 2008 to identify areas where additional strengthening may be
         required, concentrating on topics such as: (a) selection and appointment o f key



                                             6

       staff; (b) road asset management, planning and design; (c) procurement o f works
       and services; (d) supervision o f works; (e) environmental and social management;
       and (f) financial management and (8) financial sustainability o f the road
       management strategy and investment program.
   (ii) detailed list ofpendingactivities to be implemented during the extended
       A
       implementation period has been identified and a dated action plan has been agreed
       upon with ABC. Close supervision will be maintained.

25. Other risks that may be out o f ABC's control include: (i) lack o f decisive action
                                                                     the
to move ahead on the implementation o f the secondary roads pilot component; and (ii)
weak capacity from the local construction firms to timely execute civil works included in
the new procurement plan. The following, however, should be highlighted as positive
aspects that help to mitigate said risks:

   (i)ThePrefect0ofOruroispre-financingtheroadworksthathavebeenincludedin
       the procurement plan while the possible extension of the Credit is approved. Two
       o f said contracts have already been signed and a third project i s ready to be bid.
       Similarly, the Prefectura o f Chuquisaca has all the documentation ready to initiate
       the bidding process for the works included in the procurement plan, pending
       confirmation regarding the extension o f the Credit. La Paz i s fine-tuningtechnical
       aspects o f the projects to be financed.

   (ii) procurement of the second lot of periodic maintenance works is being
       The
       organized in a way such that the lessons learned from the 2004 experience are
       taken into account (revising the standard bidding documents, providing bidders
       with morebetter technical information regarding the actual condition o f the roads
       to be intervened so as to reduce uncertainties, distributingprocurement processes
       through out the year avoiding to concentrate the demand for works in a few
       number of months, planningthe works according to the rainy seasons, taking into
       consideration the volatility o f prices o f road works, etc.).

       Inaddition, a study of the capacity of the construction marketinBolivia will be
       carried out (funds from a Trust Fund were obtained for this purpose). The main
       objective i s to develop a framework to assist government officials to understand
       the market in which a road project i s or would be taking place at any given
       moment, to better judge the results o f contract bidding from the competition point
       o f view, and to improve governance o f the Bolivian road sector. The study will
      review the practices and capabilities o f the Construction Industry, particularly its
       contractors, consultants, insurers, and suppliers. During the October 2007 mission
       a meeting with representatives o f the construction industry was carried out and
       they indicated their support to this study and their interest in contributing to the
       same.




                                               7

Annex 1- Mainfactors that haveaffectedProjectImplementation

The delays and issues faced during project implementation are primarily due to the
convergence o f the following factors:

   A highly politicized institutional restructuringprocess of the implementing agency
   following the change-over of the administration in 2006, that hindered decision
   making, resulting in several months of inactivity. Since the new administration took
   office in January, 2006, the institutional reforms initiated in the 1990's have been at
   the center o f political debate, The institutionalization o f the national road agency
   (Servicio Nacional de Caminos -SNC) was no exception. As a result, the intention to
   liquidate SNC was announced at a very early stage o f the new administrative period.
   The uncertainty introduced in the sector created a generalized activity slowdown.
   Substantial delays in the decision making process during the transition period
   aggravated the implementation challenges faced by the project.

   Through the promulgation o f Law 3507 o f October 2006 the Government confirmed
   the decision to liquidate SNC and create a new road agency to take over the
   administration o f Bolivia's national road network3. On November 30, 2006, with the
   enactment o f four regulatory Decrees to Law 3507, the new Road Agency
   (Administradora Boliviana de Carreteras-ABC) became effective.

   The Credit Agreement had to be amendedto allow ABC to become the implementing
   agency, and as a result, disbursements were stopped for almost six months (until May
   2007). At the time, given the uncertainties faced regarding the final outcome o f the
   transition from SNC to ABC and the urgent need to move ahead with project
   implementation, the Bank adopted a two-phase approach to carry out the due diligence
   to assess the institutional risk o f the new entity: (i)                the Bank completed a preliminary
   assessment o f the proposed institutional set-up and based on said preliminary
   documentation, the amendment, which included specific remedies in case the final
   outcomes were not satisfactory to the Bank, was signed; and (ii)                            by September 2007
   the Bank would carry out a new assessment o f the final outcomes to identify areas
   where additional strengthening may be required.

   Ever since the announcement of the creation o f ABC the Bank has been proactive and
   responsive to the needs o f the new agency4. While the most cumbersome part o f the


 As explained by the Government, the liquidation of SNC was envisagedas a legal way out to confront problems that
 were hindering the entity's capacity to fulfill its roadmission(the entity facedjudicial liabilities for US$42 million and
 BOL$40 million that were demanding most of SNC managerial attention). The liquidator of SNC will assume the
 responsibility of dealing with saidjudiciary processes, enabling the new road agency, to focus its attention exclusively
 towards managingthe roadassets.
 (i)An internationalconsultant with significant experience in institutional reforms of road agencies and deep
 knowledge of SNC was recruited to accompany the new administration during the transformation period and to
 provide adviceon the principlesthat shouldgovernABC's institutional set-up. This hasbeenacoordinatedeffort with
 the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) and the Corporacion Andina de Foment0 (CAF); (ii)Trust Funds
 resources havebeenobtainedto develop a framework to assist government officials to understandthe market inwhich
 aroadproject is or wouldbe taking place at any given moment, to betterjudge the results of contract biddingfrom the
 competition point of view, and to improve governance of the Bolivian road sector; (iii)training on procurement
 procedures have been organized for the new staff; (iv) the Bank is participating in ABC's capacity building effort in


                                                           8

  institutional transformation process has already taken place, this has had an important
  impact on project implementation. UntilJune 2007, the project remained idlewhile the
  new institutional set-up was designed and all bylaws and regulations for its operation
  were preparedand approved.

  Convergence of external factors plaguing the implementation of a relatively
  straightforward resurfacing component. The road resurfacing program under Part
  C.2 as originally envisaged, called for the resurfacing o f about 600 kmof roads o f the
  national roadnetwork each year (each road to be determined on an annual basis).

  Eventhough this was one o fthe least risky components envisaged, a series of external
  factors have converged impacting its progress ever since the execution o f the first
  group o f resurfacing works started in 2004 (through 20 contracts covering a total
  lengthof 1,210 km).Most of said factors are country-related, including: (i)                   blockages
  due to the civil and social disturbances the country experienced in 2005; (ii)
  restrictions in supply o f diesel in the country; (iii) in the availability andor
                                                                 delays
  shortage o f counterpart funds coming from the Prefecturas; (iv) inevitable difficulties
  that take place during the rainy seasons; and (v) unforeseen increases in the cost o f
  asphalt.

  The above, further affected by the institutional meltdown faced by the implementing
  agency as described above, has led to a significant extension o f the contact periods
  (due to partial suspension o f works at different stages), and delays in the procurement
  o f new contracts (to make use o f the uncommittedbalances under this component and
  meet the project objectives).

  Longer than expected preparatory timeframes required for the secondary roads
  component, lingering its implementation due to weak institutional capacity both at
  theprefectural and national levels. The successful implementation o f this component
  anticipated the need to ensure critical technical assistance from the national road
  agency (SNC/ABC) to the departmental road agencies given the relatively weaker
  institutional setups at the Prefectural level. A close coordination between SNC/ABC
  and the participating Prefecturas was envisaged for the identification and evaluation o f
  subprojects to be implemented and the institutional strengthening o f their road
  management strategies. However, this support has been less than expected due to the
  institutional problems faced by the national road agency and the fact that efforts have
  been concentrated on the implementation o f its own components. Overall, the
  preparatory steps to fulfill the requirements to participate in the program (signing of
  agreements with the implementing agency, identification o f works to be included,
  preparation o f technical documentation, preparation o f institutional strengthening
  programs, etc) have been more time-consuming. Continuous rotation o f personnel at
  the Prefectural level has also hadit role inthe delays to complete all the steps.




roadmanagement and investmentplanningby financingtheparticipationof a Bank's expert on the use andcalibration
of the planningtool HDM-IV.


                                                 9

Emerging technical problems in the rehabilitation works of some segments of the
Boyuibe-Yacuiba corridor requiring a special technical audit to establishcauses and
possible solutions. Even though the rehabilitation works for the Boyuibe-Yacuiba
road were 96% completed inJanuary 2005 (only horizontal demarcation was missing),
the contractor had to repair at its own expense, crackings and other deformations that
emerged on several km along the road. As a result o f the repair works, the superficial
appearance o f this road i s not optimal, with several segments heavily patched and
deformed. At the time, the implementing agency was proposing to finance with credit
proceeds a seal to enhance the superficial condition and increase the lifetime o f the
road. Such additional works would increase the cost o f the project by approximately
US$3 million. The Bank requested to carry out an external technical audit to establish
causes, clarify responsibilities among the parties, and evaluate possible solutions
before any new interventions were performed. The procurement o f said audit suffered
a significant delay (partially due to the change in implementing agency) and the
contract was only signed at the beginning o f 2007. The final audit report has not yet
been received by the implementing agency. It is expected that said report will
recommend the required technical solutions to bringthe roadto a satisfactory standard.

The aftermath of thefloods that affected the country in early 2007, demanding the
redirection of the implementing agency's efforts            to attend under emergency
response, the most vulnerable roads. This year the country experienced particularly
large losses due to El Niiio phenomenon, an abnormal weather pattern that occurs at
irregular intervals. The scale o f this year's occurrence o f ElNifio has overwhelmed the
ability o f both the central and local governments to adequately respond to the
rehabilitation and recovery needs. Across the country, as many as 400,000 people were
affected by the worse floods in 20 years. The humanitarian situation was most critical
inBeni, which lies inthe Bolivia's Amazon plain.

InFebruary 2007, the Government of Bolivia requested the support of other countries
and o f multilateral organizations to face the effects caused by heavy rains and floods
that affected the eastern lowlands o f the country. The Bank offered to reallocate up to
US$8.75 millions o f uncommitted funds from the Project for the reconstructions of
some o f the roads affectedby these disasters.

On March 28, 2007 ABC submittedthe emergency proposal which called for: (i)          the
emergency rehabilitation o f four roads (180 km) in the province o f Beni; (ii)
emergency rehabilitation works o f about 186.6 km on a road in the Pando region; and
(iii)
    emergency rehabilitation o f five roads inthe Cochabamba and Santa Cruz regions.
The rationale was that all these roads were impacted by the flood and needed
emergency procurement (shopping).

A site visit to the regions was conducted to assess the damage to the roads and
determine if emergency rehabilitation would be required. The mission concluded that,
although the roads were damaged emergency response was only required in Beni.
Resurfacing works were already planned for the other roads in the provinces of
Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Pando and would not require additional allocation. To



                                           10

include the emergency works in the Beni region the Credit Agreement needs to be
amended.




                                    11

Annex 2- ProposedRehabilitationWorks

The proposal for supporting Bolivia's response to the flood consists of undertaking the
following works:




The above-mentioned emergency works aim at preventingthe roads from being flooded
inthe future and at restoringtheir transitability. To that effect, they will consist inraising
by about 30 to 40 cm (sometimes more) the embankment upon which the pavement is
constructed and eventually in critical spots in adding a 10 cm thick gravel wearing
course. In addition, and in order to improve drainage at critical locations, new culverts
will be installed. Such works fall within the broad category ofroad rehabilitation that the
project originally intendedto finance, except that given the circumstances; they can be
qualified as Emergency Works. The estimated costs o f the works are deemed to be
reasonable.




                                             12

Annex 3- ProposedSocial Plan

The compliance o f the additional works with Bank's environmental and social safeguards
was reviewed and recommendations were made on the necessity o f including a social
plan and increasing environmental capacity.

a) Emergency works inBeni:Regarding the emergency projects to reconstruct the flood
impact inthe Beni region, ABC should prepare and be responsible for the execution o f a
Social Action Plan focused on the outcomes already stated inthe Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project's PAD. These outcomes are: (i)to establish and maintain good
relationships between ABC (ex SNC), contractor, local authorities and communities, (ii)
to prevent and control potential adverse impacts, and (iii) enhance the positive impacts.
                                                           to
This Plan includes the following projects: (i)information to local authorities, (ii)
informationto local communities, (iii)   employment generation during construction phase,
(iv) environmental training and social sensitivity raising for work crews, (v) attention of
potential claims, and (vi) training for road safety. The target o f this Plan will be
indigenous and non-indigenous communities.

This action plan should be disseminated among NGO's, indigenous organization at
subnational level such as CEPIB, CEMIB, CIRABO, CIPOAP, and recognized church
authorities (such as the Trinidad and Riberalta's Bishops). These organizations were
consulted and are very worried about the lack o f coordination and information about the
emergency projects that are undergoing in the Region. After a better level o f information
i s accomplished it i s expected that these organizations would be organized in a type of
"Civil Society Emergency Coordinator", inorder to preventor propose possible solutions
to the following social risks:

        All Bolivia regions havebroad ethnic andcultural diversity, and there are cases of
        exclusion and racism which may make it difficult for the project to effectively
        reach the poorest sectors due to the risk that elite groups might appropriate the
        projects.
        In some municipalities, especially those with more resources from state budget
        transfers which are experiencing rapid growth, there are rivalries and struggles for
        power betweenurban and rural zones.
        Insome cases, the decentralization process is beinghandledbypartisan interests;
        municipalities are identified in which no investments are made with prefecture's
        resources due to political party differences, and on the other hand support i s
        concentrated inmunicipalities that support the party inpower.
        The large amount o f resources transferred to municipal governments and
        prefectures due to the increase in the IDH (Hidrocarbon tax) causes the PDDs
        (Departmental Development Plans) and PDMs (Municipal Development Plans) to
        be underestimated. This causes investments to be made without clear regulations
        and with an overlapping o f responsibilities between both subnational levels. This
        could cause a loss o f resources, a duplication o f investments, and limited
        effectiveness.




                                             13

 Insome zones, prefecture and municipal investments are pressuredby the needto
 invest, seekingpolitical favor, and insome cases are pressuredby interest groups,
  endangering protected areas and Original Community Territories. This creates a
 risk of confrontations between loggers and indigenous and peasant organizations
  over natural resources
0 The weakness o f indigenous peoples in some regions may cause their self-
  marginalization from regional planning processes and the consequent exclusion
  from investments that favor them.
  There is a lack o f clarity in the differences between the roles and functions of
  municipaland departmental levelwhich can lead to overlapping and duplication.




                                        14


