Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24282
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-40000; SCL-4000A; SCPM-4000S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$26.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR A HEALTH SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
JUNE 6, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2002)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev, plural Leva (BGN)
BGN 1 = USS 2.01383
US$ 1 = BGN 0.496566
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMA           Bulgarian Medical Association
BT             Blood Transfusion
BTC           Blood Transfusion Center
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEDB           Council of Europe Development Bank
EMS            Emergency Medical System
EU             European Union
GP            General Practitioner
GPS           Global Positioning System
HPAU          Health Policy Analysis Unit
HSRP          Health Sector Restructuring Project
ICB            Intemational Competitive Bidding
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH            Ministry of Health
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NHIF          National Health Insurance Fund
PHC            Primary Health Care
PMU           Project Management Unit
RHC           Regional Health Center
RIIF           Regional Health Insurance Fund
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
WHO            World Health Organization
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:  Armin Fidler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Dominic Haazen



BULGARIA
HEALTH SECT RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        I
2. Principal Perforrnance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  12
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   19
10. Additional Information                                                            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 30
Annex 8. ICR Consultations with Stakeholders and Beneficiaries                        31
Annex 9. Public Attitudes Towards the Primary and Emergency Health Services            35
Annex 10. Official Government Comments on Draft ICR                                   40
Annex 11. Data on Health Indicators: 2002 Report of the Ministry of Health            41






Project ID: P0083 18                                        Project Name: Health Sector Restructuring
Team Leader: Dominic S. Haazen                              TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Tvwe: Core ICR                                          Rewort Date: June 27. 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Health Sector Restructuring                      L/CTF Number. CPL40000;
SCL-4000A;
SCPM4000S
Country/Department: BULGARIA                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: HC . Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Child Health
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    03/12/1993                              Effective:  11/08/1996          11/08/1996
Appraisal:  09/22/ 1994                                 MTR:    121'31/1998         03/07/2000
Approval.  04/09/1996                                Closing.  12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrow er/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF BULGARIA/MOH
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice Presiden t:      Johannes F. Linn                            Johannes F. Linn
Coun try Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                           Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:       Armin Fidler                                Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:   Dominic S. Haazen                           Bruno Andre Laporte
ICR PrimaryAuthor:     Peter Pojarski; Dominic S.
Haazen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substanfial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Ou tcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entrv:                          HS
Project at Risk ut AIny Time:
QAG is not available.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In 2000, one young doctor, originally from the small village of Dorkovo in the rural Pazardjik
area of Bulgaria, was a surgical resident in Pleven (a larger medical university town) when he
heard of a Bank-funded project rehabilitating a building and equipping primary care facilities in his
village. Now, for the first time, the village of 3,000 people has access to high quality primary
health services from the young doctor and his wife.
The village of Samitza was one of 1,400 vacant primary care practices three years ago. Now,
these practices have all been filled, and over 2,568,800 people living in rural and remote areas of
Bulgaria have access to quality primary health care services. A survey of the practitioners in these
areas indicated that more than 55% of the doctors who work in the supported villages used to
work outside the rural health services before, indicating that the project was instrumental in
ensuring access to PHC services for approximately  1,4 12,840 people.
In 1999, the chance of a 40-60 year old in Bulgaria dying from a heart attack or stroke was 6.2
90/. In 2001, this had decreased to 2.3%o a decline of almost three times. This change has
resulted in 2,340 fewer deaths across Bulgaria in 2001.
In 1996, approximately 64,905 litres blood have been donated, but the processing capability was
minimal (72%) and there were a total of 9,717 cases of Hepatitis B among the donators. In 2001,
despite a fall in the number of liters donated, about approximately three times more patients were
able to benefit from blood or blood products and the number of cases of Hepatitis B had declined
to 4,588 among the donators. Each liter of blood is now processed into up to 3 separate
life-saving components using facilities and equipment judged by Council of Europe as setting up a
"Bulgarian best-practice model" in blood transfusion system reform.
These three examples summarize the development impact of the Health Sector Restructuring
Project.
The overall objectives of the project were to: (i) improve the efficiency of the health care delivery
system and facilitate the restructuring of the health sector by strengthening the policy analysis and
management capacity in the sector; and (ii) protect the population by ensuring continuing
provision of essential health care services during the transition period and beyond. The project
had the following components and specific objectives:
* Policy Analysis and Management Component aimed to enhance the capacity in the MoH for
policy analysis and evaluation based on burden of disease analysis, cost-effectiveness studies,
and the improvement of the health sector management.
* Primary Health Care (PHC) Component aimed at improving the quality and scope of health
care, while increasing efficiency in the health sector.
* Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Component aimed to support the further restructuring of
the emergency medical services and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of service
delivery, by separating EMS functions from those of the PHC network and creating a
streamlined three-tiered national EMS network.
- 2-



* Blood Transfusion (BT) Component aimed at improving the supply and quality of blood and
blood products by restructuring and rehabilitating the network of blood transfusion centres
and introducing safer and more up to date technology.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Comtiponents.
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ Million)
Policy Analysis and Management        0.2          2.6         2.8
PrimaryHealthCare                     5.5         9.1          14.6
EmergencyMedicalServices              4.2          9.2         13.4
Blood Transfusion                     4.8          5.9         10.7
Total Base Costs                   14.7        26.8         41.5
Physical Contingencies                1.1          2.2         3.3
Price Contingencies                   0.9          1.4         2.3
Total Project Costs            16.7         30.4        47.1
Policy Analysis and Management Component aimed to support MOH and its associated
institutions in their efforts to (i) determnine priorities for resource allocation based on Bulgaria's
disease profile; (ii) define an action plan to streamline and rationalise the public sector health
system; and (iii) improve financial management, diversify sources of revenue, and develop new
reimbursement mechanisms for health services. The component also aimed to establish long-term
and short-term fellowships (such as a Health Policy Analysis Unit, HPAU in the MOH) to
strengthen the capacity of the MOH and associated institutions to implement reform strategies.
The HPAU would assist the MOH in analysing policy options related to health finance, resource
allocation and expenditures and in organising and disseminating information in order to build
broad consensus on health policy reforms and health system restructuring.
The Component would also finance consultant services to strengthen capacity for analysis and
implementation of reform. A Health Finance Advisor would provide long-term support to the
HPAU in canying out its functions. In addition, short-term consulting services were to be
provided to support a number of policy studies/exercises.
The Component would also finance computer software and hardware, as well as basic office
equipment to support the HPAU and the Network of Regional Health Centres.
The Component would support information activities to build a national consensus on health
sector reform; the HPAU would prepare public information documents which summarise policy
orientations in the sector, priorities for allocation of resources, major issues for reform, measures
-3 -



underway to address these issues and the plan of action to define and implement further reforms.
Finally, the component would finance office equipment, one vehicle and the operating costs for
the PCU, as well as technical assistance and training for procurement, record-keeping and
auditing for both the PCU and the Department of Equipment (DEQ).
Primary Health Care Component aimed to improve the quality and scope of primary health
care in selected municipalities which were committed to the reform of health services delivery and
financing, and efficiency improvement through better utilisation of available resources and existing
facilities. To achieve its objectives, the project would support the implementation of a package of
essential PHC services in up to 75 municipalities in the 7 districts (phase 1) and 14 districts (phase
2) to be covered by the emergency medical services. This package was planned to include:
i. basic, high-quality, round-the-clock curative care targeted at the most common health
complaints and delivered to the whole municipal population;
ii. preventive care in the area of Maternal and Child Health including family planning, maternal
and prenatal care, infant growth monitoring and immunisation; particular attention will also be
given to screening for cervical and possibly breast cancer;
iii. other preventive activities implemented in accordance with national health policies, in
particular cardio-vascular diseases, tuberculosis, acute respiratory infections, sexually
transmitted diseases, and accidents;
iv. municipal health promotion activities to address priority problems (tobacco, drugs and alcohol
abuse, injuries and poisonings, dietary habits, abortion) mainly through the promotion of
better life-styles.
The project would facilitate, through provision of technical assistance (TA) to selected
municipalities, the preparation and implementation of specific plans aimed at improving the quality
and effectiveness of the PHC network.
The project would target up to 75 municipalities located in 21 districts and selected on the basis
of the following criteria:
L. Commitment to the proposed reform and readiness to introduce the standard PHC package
designed under the project;
H. Priority to under-privileged, low-income areas within the selected municipalities;
iii. Willingness to downsize their health care delivery system;
iv. Agreement to financially participate in the project in particular with regard to rehabilitation
and furnishing of PHC centres, and remuneration of staff providing 24-hour coverage;
v. Agreement to allocate vehicles to the structures for home visits; and
vi. Willingness to utilise suitable buildings , with acceptable standards of water, electricity and
heating systems.
The project would finance minor rehabilitation for up to 270 local health centres and 42
polyclinics, equipment and furniture for these facilities. It would also finance technical assistance
to:
i. Assist MOH and Municipal Councils to plan PHC activities, design and implement the new
package of PHC services (focusing on quality of care, efficiency, organisation of 24-hour
-4 -



service, and health promotion) and evaluate its impact.
ii. Help prepare curricula and programs for re-training medical doctors, nurses and other health
and social workers;
Hi. Develop and implement well targeted municipal health promotion activities.
Finally, the project would finance training and continuing education programs to enhance the
skills of PHC personnel working in the municipalities.
Emergency Medical Services Component aimed to support ongoing efforts by MOH to
restructure emergency medical services (EMS) and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of
service delivery. It also aimed at improving the interface between EMS and PHC services, and
hospitals.
An effective and efficient EMS system is characterised by:
L. rapid access by the population and by primary heath care staff to a national
telecommunications network that can process calls, counsel or refer the caller, or promptly
dispatch either advanced medical response teams or basic life support ambulances;
ii. rapid, efficient, on-site treatment and, if required, transport without delay to an appropriate
health care institution;
iii. properly equipped, multidisciplinary and multifunctional emergency rooms in the appropriate
community or district hospital;
iv. medical staff with specialised training in the treatment of the full range of clinical emergencies,
and with the support from well-trained paramedical staff.
The restructuring of EMS supported under the project was planned to:
i. separate the functions of EMS from those of the PHC network, while ensuring continuous
access to medical care for the population
ii. consolidate and effectively manage a three-tier national network, which permits the
coordination of service delivery and streamlining of patient transfer mechanisms
iii. improve pre-hospital outreach capacity
iv. introduce the concept of a multidisciplinary emergency room in order to optimise efficiency in
receiving and stabilising acute cases.
The MOH had adopted a gradual approach to restructuring of the EMS network. A total of 21
Districts were to be covered.
The project would finance minor civil works for base stations at the periphery and minor civil
works and equipment for two types of emergency rooms (21 regional hospital and 45 community
hospital emergency rooms). In addition, it would finance 29 properly equipped intervention
vehicles for the medical teams, and 96 ambulances for the basic life support teams in the
pre-hospital services.
Blood Transfusion Component aimed to improve the supply and quality of blood and blood
products by restructuring and rehabilitating the network of blood transfusion centres, introducing
safer and more up-to-date technology, and promoting the recruitment of new donors.
- 5 -



The project would assist the MOH in re-centralising the system of blood transfusion and
haematology, thereby concentrating the main blood processing and quality control activities in
only four Regional Transfusion Centres. This would allow a downsizing of the network, with
smaller centres performing only blood collection functions, and other functions gradually being
phased out. It would support the introduction of more up-to-date and safer technology for blood
collection and processing, and upgrade blood processing to current standards of Council of
Europe and other international organisations.
Finally, the National Donor Recruitment Program would be reorganised with the participation of
non-governmental organisations.
The project would finance minor civil works to renovate existing facilities of the National Centre
for Clinical and Transfusion Haematology and the five Regional Transfusion Haematology
Centres in Sofia, Plovdiv, Pleven, Stara Zagora and Vama. The component would also finance the
provision of modem equipment consistent with Council of Europe standards, as well as consultant
services, and state-of-the-art materials and mass media campaigns to reorganise the blood donor
recruitment program. Finally, training programs for health personnel engaged in donor
recruitment, public relations, blood collections and processing, and quality control would be
provided for in addition to overseas fellowships.
3.4 Revised Components:
Total Cost        Rating
('oooUS$)
1.    Policy Analysis and Management:              2,473.05         S
2 .   Primary Health Care                          9,385.25          HS
3.    Emergency Medical Services                  15,093.94         H S
4.    Blood Transfusion                           12,343.27         HS
In the course of Project implementation some modifications to the contents and volume of Project
components were agreed upon. The general reasons for these were the developing strategic
priorities of the Bulgarian Government in the field of health care, as well as some specific results
obtained in some of the tenders. In some of the tenders the obtained prices were considerably
lower than the initial plans, and this allowed for much needed increases in the amounts supplied.
These modifications were reflected in the two (2000 and 2001) Amendments to the Loan
Agreement.
Specific focus on components:
Component Policy analysis: This component was supported by a EU PHARE program grant,
designed by MoH, which started implementation in 1996. A project called "Training of Managing
Administrative Staff Participating in the System Decentralisation Process" was developed and
approved by the EC Delegation. The main goal of the project was building up of an analytical
capacity for assisting the ministry's management in the analysis of the options of the health reform
and its implementation. This was to be achieved through:
i. establishing a unit for health and political and economic analyses (HPAU) and training of its
-6-



members;
ii training of ministry's managing administrative staff at national, regional and local level on the
problems of the health policy, health economics, management and informatics;
iii. training in hospital care management; and
iv. training of experts from health care institutions for primary and specialised pre-hospital care.
The HPAU was established in the autumn of 1996 with order of the Minister of Health in the
beginning as a working group on functional basis, including 14'persons with different background
(economists, physicians, jurists, pharmacists) and from different locations of work and institutions
(MoH and MoF). The unit was equipped with appropriate computer and office equipment. A
special training program was implemented on different issues of the health reform for the
members of the unit. Five studies were conducted and reports were produced on the following
topics: reform in the hospital sector, reform in the primary health care, pharmaceutical sector
reform, technology assessment and health information system, (burden of diseases). These were
then used as supporting information in drafting a National Health Strategy and Action Plan.
A special training program was designed and performed in order to support capacity building in
the MoH. A total of 40 persons from the leading administrative staff of the institution was trained
in 4-week-courses on health policy, health economics, management and information system. A
further 80 people attended English language courses, and 64 ones improved their computer skills.
Several workshops were organised. Study tours totalling 56 man/weeks of studies in Spain,
Portugal and Ireland were organised for leading administrative staff from the MoH, MoF, and
national and regional health institutions in order to improve their practical knowledge of health
systems organisation and administration existing elsewhere in Europe and to learn from the
experience of the European countries with effective health systems.
Two books with lectures on the health reform in Bulgaria and 1 book presenting the materials of
National Conference on health reformn issues had been published, 1 book on hospital management
was translated from Spanish and published, as well.
Four regional training centres were established and equipped with computer, training and office
equipment - in Sofia, Stara Zagora, Vama, Veliko Tamovo. A team of 30 local lecturers on health
policy, economics, management and informatics had been built.
A total of 115 leading administrative staff from regional health-related institutions (Regional
Health Centers, regional Hygiene and Epidemiology Inspectorates, etc.) received training, and
220 managers finished courses on hospital management and 250 professionals from outpatient
care facilities were qualified on Primary Health care organisation and management. Study of the
PHC organisation in UK was organised in order to profit and learn from foreign experience.
Component Primary Health Care: The implementation of this component coincided with some
major changes in the Bulgarian legislation in the field of health care. Three main laws were
adopted -- Health Insurance Act, Health Care Institutions Act and Physicians and Dentists
Professional Organisations Act -- that formed the basis for a radical reform in the health sector. A
new financing institution was founded - the National Health Insurance Fund; and a minimum
health needs standard was established - the National Health Map. Due to the restructuring of the
system of polyclinics in primary health care, the Comrponent directed its activities only towards
individual and group practices of primary health care in the remote rural areas of the country. The
- 7-



initial principles and criteria for attracting municipalities for participation in the project (two
intervention phases in 7, and later on in 14 regions in the country) were subsequently revised. It
was decided that all practices in the village/rural areas of the country would be considered, as they
are all generally unattractive, and have demographic problems and other problems. As a result,
the provision of medical equipment covered all regions in the country. Overall, there was a
two-step increase in the number of equipped practices - from 700 to 1000, and from 1000 to
1800. The increase was approved by the Bank and these figures were included, respectively in the
first and second change of the Loan Agreement. All municipalities in Bulgaria concluded
contracts with the Ministry of Health with the commitment to accept the equipment, to provide
premises and contribute to an attractive environment for GPs in their practices. The primary
health care practices that were repaired and equipped under the Project became attractive to the
physicians, and as a result a significant number of previously unoccupied practices were filled. The
introduction of health insurance on July 1, 2000 played a key role for these positive changes and
created a legal and financial basis for the launch of primary health care. The Bank also approved
redirecting the funds for GP vehicles (which would be insufficient to cover a reasonable number
of practices) to cover other needs of medical equipment.
Training of 1070 GPs was also provided under the project. The repair activities funded by the
Council of Europe Development Bank (CEDB) were increased by repairing 377 buildings located
in areas selected under a decentralised principle. Under the CEDB financing there was a
sub-component for purchasing GP office furniture. This sub-component was re-evaluated and
was found to be limited in scope and overall size in comparison with the actual needs of the GPs.
Also, it was found that GPs were more in need for office refurbishment than in basic furniture,
which they often had, or had easier ways to obtain. It was therefore decided, with the permission
of CEDB, that the limited funding for office furniture be redirected into the component doing the
office refurbishment for primary practices. This allowed the coverage of more practices by the
component.
Component EMS: The volume of the interventions under this component was also considerably
increased, therefore allowing an even more successful achievement of the original objective.
Efficient tender procedures allowed for an increase of the number of participating regions from 2 1
to 28, and of the number of equipped vehicles from 125 to 238.  Medical equipment was delivered
in all 27 EMS centres instead of the originally planned 21. A well operating EMS system was set
up with emergency wards in all 27 EMS centres and their 186 divisions. This ensured a three-step
EMS system. In order to optimise the system management, a Global Positioning System was
purchased and installed in 200 emergency vehicles, in the nine largest EMS centres in the country
and their divisions. All 28 EMS centers plus 126 branches are undergoing refurbishment. The
financing of the civil works is provided by the Council of Europe Development Bank.
Component Blood Transfusion: In the course of implementation of the Component some
modifications were approved, related to the volume of repair works in all blood transfusion
centres. The originally planned minimum repair works in SAR were increased to ensure optimum
results, in relation to the specific situation of the original five centers. Three of these were in a
very poor state and needed an overall repair. It was also decided that new construction rather
than refurbishment would be a better solution for the town of Vama. The building of the National
-8-



Blood Transfusion Centre was refurbished, and some other premises were added to it to comply
with the recommendations for good production practice and the high European standards. With
Bank approval, medical equipment was purchased for the performance of autologous
transplantation of stem sells, and a new transplantation centre was set up. Hardware and software
were purchased to meet the needs of the information system of the blood transfusion centres.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Not available.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the objectives is highly satisfactory.
Despite the initial slowness of project implementation, full completion of objectives under all
components was achieved. The introduction of the health insurance on July 1, 2000 set the
beginning of the basic restructuring of the health sector by changing the scheme of financing, and
re-registering the health care institutions as independent legal entities. The Health Sector
Restructuring Project became the real investment basis for conducting the reform and contributed
to a great extent to the improvement of the effectiveness and quality of the medical aid in all
intervention fields. In addition, the quality of primary medical care in unattractive regions of the
country was improved. In these locations, the project created incentives for physicians to set up
practices and provided adequate medical equipment. This, along with the established and
equipped system of EMS contributed considerably to improving the access of the population to
high-quality medical services. The restructured and equipped blood transfusion network ensures
safety and high quality of the blood and blood products that meet the European standards.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Policy analysis and Management
The achievement of the objectives under this component is satisfactory.
The main outcomes of the activities performed under the component are as follows:
Capacities for training and consultancy are built in order to support the ongoing health reform
at national and regional levels;
Professionals from different fields and levels of the system were trained and ready to meet the
challenges of the health reform;
In the Ministry of Health a Health Policy and Economic Analysis Unit was created to support
the leadership of the institution and provide technical tools for policy analysis (this unit
recently completed a hospital rationalization strategy that will be used as the basis for
fundamental changes in the hospital sector);
Jointly with WHO, the UHPA    coordinates the development and implementation of a
long-term National Health Strategy and Action Plan that received the approval of WB and
became the basis of a future planning and investment in the field of health care.
Component Primary Health Care:
The achievement of objectives under this component is highly satisfactory. The following changes
to the indicators could be observed:
Change in the statistical indicators - see Annex 11;
-9-



-  Change in the attitude of the population towards the medical personnel - see social study;
-  Purchased medical equipment for 1800 PHC practices. All village GP practices are equipped,
on the territory of the whole country.
-  Repair works completed on 377 PHC practices located in all regions of the country.
-  Contracts have been concluded with all village municipalities in Bulgaria for improving the
quality of primary health care.
-  Promotion materials have been prepared and distributed, through HEI, on the territory of the
whole country with various target groups - GPs, population, students.
- 1,070 GPs have been trained
-  26.7% of the doctors have decided to become family doctors because of the rendered help by
the project
-  55% of the doctors who work in the supported villages used to work outside the rural health
services before
-  National Framework Contract between providers and the National Health Insurance Fund
successfully signed annually since the introduction of the reforn
Component EMS:
The achievement of the objectives under the EMS component was highly satisfactory.
The EMS system has been completely separated from pre-hospital and in-patient health care
as well as creation of a three-step system for stabilisation and hospitalisation of patients in
case of emergencies.
* Degree of satisfaction from the reform in the EMS: The majority of EMS doctors find the
acquired equipment within the project "sufficient and corresponding to the needs" (82.1%).
Very pleased are the doctors in the regional centers (86.0%). As a whole, doctors are
satisfied with the quality of the equipment in the ambulances, and the majority of them
(41.6%) announce it as "good" and 23.1% as "very good".
Comments on the change in the monitoring indicators: According to EMS doctors most
service indicators change positively after the introduction of the health insurance system.
9.42% is the average reduction in mileage for the system after the introduction of the GPS in
vehicles.
- Repair works and medical equipment of 28 EMS centres located in 28 district hospitals and
126 divisions located in municipal hospitals.
- 238 ambulances have been purchased and fully equipped.
- Global Positioning System has been installed on 200 ambulances in the nine largest EMS
centres in the country and their divisions
1,3 18 physicians, 2,088 nurses and 1,183 drivers in the EMS system have received training.
Blood transfusion:
The achievement of the objectives under the BTC component is highly satisfactory. The
following is a summary of the observed indicators:
. A centralised blood transfusion network was set up with five Regional Blood Transfusion
Centres and one National Blood Transfusion Centre where blood and blood products are
collected and processed.
- Legal conditions were developed for the operation of the blood transfusion system by
allocating the functions and responsibilities for the promotion, collection and centralised
-10-



examination and processing of the blood between the blood transfusion centres and the district
blood transfusion divisions and offices.
All Blood Transfusion Centres were repaired and equipped with state-of-the-art medical
equipment and furniture.
A high-tech stem cells autologous transplantation centre was set up in the newly built building
of the National Blood Transfusion Centre.
Information system for blood transfusion network was set up and installed ensuring
unremitting exchange of information with high level of security.
A national campaign for promotion of voluntary blood donation was held jointly with a
consultant selected under the component, BRC, Regional and National Blood Transfusion
Centres. The campaign was preceded and followed by a sociological survey that identified the
intervention fields and traced the campaign impact. An increase in the number of voluntary
blood donors was reported in the areas where the campaign was most intensive. 4000 new
donors registered and donated blood in the course of two months during and immediately
following the campaign.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return.
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project achieved high institutional development impact.
At national level: the project increased significantly the analytical capacity of the Ministry of
Health, by supporting the Health Policy Analysis Unit (HPAU). This enhanced the administrative
capacity for management of projects and management through projects. The HPAU was set up to
support MOH activities and strategic planning and analysis of health policy. Administrative staff
of all levels of health care system has been trained in health management.
The project also assisted the overall health sector reform and strengthened the national capacity
for managing the three main systems in the health care - Primary Health Care (PHC), Emergency
Medical Services (EMS) and Blood Transfusion. (TS). In EMS and Blood Transfusion, the
project was the catalyst and main supporter of new systems of providing the respective services.
The project invested in large scale investments, staff training, installation of the necessary
equipment to carry out the health reform. A National Health Strategy and an Action Plan for the
period 200 1-2006 were drafted.
At municipal level - the project strengthened the local governments' capacity to implement the
health reform at their level, by assisting the restructuring of the primary health care in all rural
municipalities throughout the country. The municipalities in their capacity of owners of buildings
and equipment were helped to attract and retain qualified medical doctors in the less attractive
areas in Bulgaria.
Bulgarian Medical Association (BMA) - the training of 1070 GPs carried out by its structures
-11 -



contributed considerably to enhance the prestige of the organisation and to strengthen its
experience in the post-graduate qualification of medical staff which is an obligation of the BMA
according to the Professional Organisations of Medical Doctors and Dentists.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Donor Coordination
Donor coordination under the project was an example of good cooperation and coordination.
The project received funding from IBRD, the Council of Europe Development Bank and the
PHARE programme of the European Union. Donors agreed to a common set of implementation
rules.
Political Turbulence
The implementation of the project started in 1996 - the peak year for the latest financial and
economic crisis in Bulgaria. The considerable political and economic instability and the frequent
change of a number of cabinets with different political orientation led to significant initial delays in
the implementation of the Project.
5.2 Factors generallv subject to government control:
On average for the full duration of the project, the Government managed the factors under its
control satisfactorily.
Will to Implement Project Activities
Over the last 3-4 years of project implementation, the Government showed ownership of the
project and good will and capacity to advance the objectives. Project implementation was on
track, and project objectives were fully achieved.
However, in the first two years following the signing of the Loan Agreement the objectives of the
Project seemed unrealistic and there was no clear idea as to the way of their achievement. This
was mainly due to initial lack of government ownership of the project. The setting-up of a legal
framework for the reform became possible in 1997. The actions of the Currency Board stabilised
the economic and political situation in the country. The cabinet which took office following the
early elections in 1997 governed until the expiry of the term of office which allowed the start of
the reformrs in the country including in the health sector.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
The Implementation Agency's performance started out weak, but then steadily improved and is
rated Highly Satisfactory at ICR. A great deal of this improvement is due to the recruitment of
two very strong PMU Directors about mid-way through the project, as well as the retention of
key staff and increased interest and ownership on the part of the Ministry, at both the political and
professional level. Implementation at the end of the project was professional and on schedule.
The implementing agency showed initiative and ability to solve problems and achieve objectives.
The initial slowdown in implementation on the implementing agency side, was due to high
turnover of senior staff at the MOH, lack of continuity, and the absence of external technical
assistance.
- 12 -



5.4 Costs and financing:
Overall amount of project financing proved adequate for the achievement of project objectives. In
the course of implementation some modifications to the funding amounts for project components
were made, to reflect the actual developments of the reform and the evolving strategic priorities
of the Bulgarian Government, as well as some specific results obtained in some of the tenders.
These modifications were reflected in the two (2000 and 2001) Amendments to the Loan
Agreement.
Local         Foreign       Total
(USS Million)
l. Policy Analysis and Management:          0.2            2.6          2.8
2. Primary Health Care                      5.5            9.1         14.6
3. Emergency Medical Services               4.2            9.2         13.4
4. Blood Transfusion                        4.8            5.9         10.7
Total Base Costs                       14.7           26.8         41.5
Physical Contingencies                       1.1           2.2          3.3
Price Contingencies                         0.9            1.4          2.3
Total Project Costs                    16.7           30.4        47.1
Financing Plan
Government of Bulgaria                      7.8             0.0          7.8
IBRD                                        0.0            26.0         26.0
CEDB                                        8.8             2.2          11.0
EU PHARE                                    0.1             2.2          2.3
Total Financing Requirements           16.7           30.4          47.1
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationalefor sustainability rating.
Sustainability of the Project results is assessed as Likely.
Component 1:     Policy analysis:  The institutional development achieved by the Project is
embodied in long-term central and local govemment agencies - MoH and municipalities. The
Government has already started using actively the HPAU for policy analysis, and as a main unit in
its health-related EU accession work. Since 1997 the HPAU activity has been transformed from
functional principle to administrative principle. It became a structural unit in Health Policy,
International Cooperation and European Integration Directorate, part of Project Administration
and Management Department. Its activities were focused on the identification and monitoring
problems of the health policy and the analysis of the health reform implementation.
The unit performs coordination functions in working out and discussing political documents with
experts of different levels of the health system. It also takes part in the preparation of the periodic
analysis of the Bulgarian health system "Health systems in transition - Bulgaria" jointly with the
-13-



Regional office of WHO (1998, 2002); an analysis of the introduction of the reform in the
outpatient health care (2000) in cooperation with the Spanish Agency for International
Cooperation; in the preparation of annual analyses of the population's health status and other
analyses and reports. Projects have been defined in accordance with the selected health priorities
looking for funding from international institutions.
In general the component contributed to the formation of stable staff potential at all levels of the
health system. The implementation of a policy for the development of administrative staff in the
health care system was ahead of time in respect of the overall reform of the administrative system
in the country. The number and scope of activities completed (seminars, trained specialists from
the system, published books and completed analysis) as compared to those provided for in the
SAR was much larger. With the achieved final results the component supports the MOH in the
implementation of the health reform, the formulation of health policy priorities and strategic
planning implementation.
Component 2: PHC: As regards the component outcomes, the investments in the PHC are
supported by the newly introduced health insurance financing, and will be maintained by the
general practitioners who have a vested interest in using and maintaining the equipment.
The GPs position and the philosophy of PHC restructuring were supported by an increasingly
large part of the population and medical professionals.  The general practitioners have the
opportunity to receive higher remuneration, directly depending on the number of patients
recorded in their lists. The new payment system is risk-adjusted, capitation-based system that
provides for an incentive for working in rural areas as well as for incentives for paying attention
(actively diagnosing and treating) to certain categories of patients like diabetes and hypertension.
These categories relate to the most important health risks and diseases, so the project is meant to
also have some impact on the health status of the population. Next to this, the better payment of GP's as
well as the contractual relationship with HIF reduces also the exposure of patients to informal payments.
This improves their motivation to provide higher quality medical services. The funding on "per capita"
principle is fully provided by the National health Insurance Fund (NHIF) on the basis of annually
renewable National Framework Contract, which is a prerequisite for sustainability. The Framework
Contract between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Union of Medical Doctors is not
only an attempt to specify the package of GP care but it also uses as model not the health insurance law or
another law, but a Model Contract between the two parties involved. The Framework Contract is meant to
be amended every year, paying attention to the list of interventions as well as to the paying of services.
The project-equipped practices for providing PHC in all rural regions in the country according to
the National Health Map helped the municipal authorities implement policies for improved health
care in these regions, and attract medical doctors to unattractive localities. In addition, NHIF
would offer financial bonuses and would conclude contracts with GPs in remote and unattractive
rurl regions GPs even if less patients are recorded in their lists.
In addition to that, the project provided training in the use of equipment, which ensures
sustainability and efficiency of the project outcome.
Component 3: EMS. In the EMS component, the Government started more adequately
- 14 -



budgeting for the EMS system, which will remain budget-financed responsibility of the state. It is
also expected that the introduction of the GPS will improve efficiency in the system, and lead to
savings of fuel, operating time, etc. The EMS system was set-up on the basis of the earlier system
of Emergency Aid, and was separated from the hospital structures as early as 1994. However,
the worn-out and obsolete medical equipment and buildings were inherited directly from the old
system. The Project allowed a full replacement of the old fleet of motor vehicles with fewer new
fully equipped vehicles. The new system for providing primary health care also allowed the
medical doctors from the EMS to focus their efforts on the real emergency medicine. MOH
covers all expenses for the EMS. The funding of current repairs of buildings and equipment,
centralised supply of lubricants, oils and car tyres represents a new and well-working system of
budgeting. The maintenance of the telecommunications system, as well as the newly introduced
GPS is borne by the MOH.
Component 4: Blood Transfusion. In the Blood Transfusion system, the new network of five
centers is more efficient and better-equipped, and will also in the long-run receive direct budget
financing. The centralisation of the existing transfusion system in Bulgaria and the building and
equipping of five Blood Transfusion Centres and a National Blood Transfusion Centre allowed
the achievement of European standards regarding the conditions for blood collection, blood and
blood products processing, and storage. The introduced information system will reduce to a
minimum the risks related to blood collection from unreliable donors, the mistakes in processing,
and the cases of loss of blood and blood products due to improper storage or expired term.
The completion of the system's restructuring requires the legal definition of functions for the
smaller units which will remain on the territory of the district hospitals and the regional BTC.
These units (wards) are included in the hospitals' assets but they receive targeted subsidies from
the state. With the introduction of centralised blood analysis and processing, their tasks are
limited to the promotion of blood donation, blood collection, distribution of ready blood products
and consultations relating to their use. This requires reduction of the existing staff in those wards
and concentration of the efforts in the regional BTCs. The final objective of the restructuring is
the separation of the BT wards from the hospitals' assets and their inclusion in the respective
RBTC. Thus a centralised management and control of the Blood Transfusion System will be
achieved.  This direction of development for the BT system is in compliance with the
recommendations of the Mission of the Council of' Europe, whose primary task was to outline the
strategy for development of the blood transfusion network.
The promotion of free blood donation as an element of sustainability is outlined in an action plan,
which will be implemented with the assistance of the Bulgarian Red Cross, other
non-governmental organisations, government institutions, schools, etc. The funding for
promotional programs is included in the budgets of the Blood Transfusion Centers. The state
provides centralised supplies of all consumables needed for blood collection, analysis and
processing.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regutlar operations:
The Project investments were directly linked to regular operation of the system. Transition to the
new systems of primary health care, EMS and blood transfusion has already been implemented
and the systems are now in regular operating mode. The investments made and the activities are
- 15 -



part of the reform in the health care and are ensured with ongoing funding from MOH and NHIF
budgets.
In addition, the Bank and the Government have embarked on a second project supporting the
further development of the Health Reform - the Health Sector Reform Project. This project will
take further the achievements and objectives of HSRP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory
The Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory. There were no major issues with procurement
or disbursement on the side of the Bank resulting in problems with project performance.  The
requests for amendments to the Loan Agreement were processed in due time and without delays.
There was some turnover of project staff early in the implementation, but the relative stability for
the last 3 or more years has helped in achieving satisfactory outcomes.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory
The Bank's continuous supervision is rated Satisfactory. Supervision was regular and
well-staffed, and managed to provide adequate response even in the earlier periods of slowdown
in project implementation. Supervision also made efficient use of good coordination and
colaboration between HQ and field staff.
7.3 Overall Bank perjornmance:
Satisfactory
Based on the Satisfactory Lending and Supervision performance, overall Bank performance is
rated Satisfactory. It should also be mentioned that the Bank's team played an important advisory
role during implementation. The project was also used as a step to another Health Sector Reform
Project supporting the completion of the reforms.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory
The participation of the Government in the preparation of the project has been Satisfactory at all
levels.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory
The Government implementation performance has been satisfactory. The Government promoted
the objectives of the project, and was strictly following the implementation procedures.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory
The Implementing Agency Performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. The Ministry of Health was
the implementing agency for the project. Despite the initial slowdown, MoH managed to form a
capable implementation unit able to face the complex implementation tasks of the project. Over
- 16 -



the last year of project implementation, Implementation Progress was continuously rated HS.
Regular reports and data on project management, procurement, disbursements, and financial
status were made available to the Bank. The audit reports were also duly provided.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
In general, the Borrower has been pro-active and results-oriented in project preparation and
implementation  through the involved Government agencies and the Implementing Agency.
Based on all aspects of the Borrower performance, it is rated Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
This section summarizes lessons learned from the project on policy level, as well as lessons from
implementation, management and administration.  Annex 8 to the ICR also summarizes
discussions with stakeholders and beneficiaries on achievement of project objectives and lessons
learned.
1. Policy-Level Lessons Learned
The analysis of the Project implementation stages and the factors that had an impact on
implementation provide a basis for lessons learned. These lessons can be summarized as follows:
1.1. Alignment of project and government political, and continuity in reform objectives are critical
for project success
1.2. Confidence and communication among PCU, the Management of Implementing Agency and
the Bank team are critical for project success
1.3. Transparency, decentralization and open discussion are essential for making important
decisions related to the project
1.4. Project design allowing for some flexibility can be very useful during implementation
2. Lessons from Implementation, Management and Administration
2.1. Component 1: Policy Analyses
2.1.1. The Administrative principle of unit operation (independent administrative structure with
specific functions and obligations) works better than the Functional principle (when the unit is
only an advisory to another structure);
2.1.2. Adequate and consistent policy on selection, training and motivation of unit's staff is
important for the efficiency of the unit;
2.1.3. Alignment of HPAU activities with the priorities of the MOH improves performance of the
HPAU team
2.2. Component 2: Primary Health Care
2.2.1. The involvement of the regional structures of BMA, RIHF and RHC and in
decision-making relating to the selection of practices under PHC subject to repair and
equipment contributed to the fair and smooth process of allocating the offers.
2.2.2. The assumption that municipal authorities will distribute the equipment to locations with
- 17 -



most dire needs, has not been confirmed for all cases. Often the choice was based on personal
considerations and preferences.
2.2.3. The delivered equipment combined with the unemployment rate among medical doctors and
the measures undertaken by the municipalities to attract medical doctors in the remote rural
regions resulted in filling in most of the vacant practices. However, some (few) practices
remained unoccupied, suggesting that a further assessment of the needs in these locations is
required to establish whether restoration of services is feasible.
2.2.4. Systematic and continuous training of the GPs is imperative for providing high-quality
health care. The purchased medical equipment allowed the GPs to perform the full list of
activities included in the service package contracted with the NI-IF. However, in some places
some of the equipment is underused, often because of insufficient knowledge or motivation
for its use.
2.3. Component 3: Emergency Medical Services
2.3.1. The investments made in the EMS system influenced significantly the mortality rate in
emergency cases. The new equipment, vehicles, communication system and improved
management resulted in threefold reduction in mortality rates.
2.3.2. The maintenance of good quality of medical services in the system depends directly on the
investments made in the sector.
2.3.3. Proper budgeting of the operational costs for the sector is essential for the provision of
effective EMS.
2.4. Component 4: Blood Transfusion
2.4.1. The restructuring of blood transfusion system is part of the overall restructuring of the
health sector and in-patient care in particular. The system still needs a precise definition of
functions of each of its sub-structures. The system also needs refinement of its relationship to
the hospitals - the users of the blood and blood products.
2.4.2. The motivation of the people to donate blood voluntarily is in direct relationship to the
economic state of the country and to the development of civil society. Society in crisis has
overall general reduction of blood donors.
2.5. Procurement
2.5.1. Accurate preparation of the tender documentation in particular in case of construction
works, is very important . including validated design and precise Terms of Reference for
consultants.
2.5.2. Adequate communication among counterparts on all issues arising in the process of the
preparation, and holding of the procedures result in smooth procurement.
2.6. Project Management
2.6.1. Well trained and highly motivated staff with clearly defined responsibilities and freedom to
make managerial decisions is important for effective implementation.
2.6.2. State-of-the-art computer system for financial management and project management
contributes to success of implementation.
2.6.3. Maintenance of accurate documentation filing and archiving system is important for good
management.
- 18-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.:
See attachment.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The Council of Europe Development Bank considers this project an overall success. Following
some delays and difficulties at the outset, linked to governmental changes and staff turnover,
project implementation subsequently picked up and a highly satisfactory work relationship was
established with both the World Bank and the Project Implementation Unit at MoH. The CEB is
also particularly pleased with the positive results of the Council of Europe's assessment of the
project's   positive    contribution   to    the     blood-transfusion   component.
As regards lessons learned from this co-financing in terms of pre-requisites for the success of
similar schemes, the CEB wishes to bring forward the importance of regular and open
communication, both between lenders, borrower and implementing unit and between the lenders
themselves, as well as that of project ownership by national authorities.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
See beneficiary meeting summary.
10. Additional Information
Denomination
Following the introduction of the Currency Board in 1997 the BGN exchange rate was fixed to
the Deutsche Mark. On July 1, 1998 the Government requested a split of the BUL 4000 Loan in
two parts i.e. BUL 4000S and BUL 4000A. The currency of the first part remained in US Dollars
and that of BUL 4000A has been converted into Deutsche Marks. Due to this conversion the
project incurred exchange rate losses in the amount of USD 3,330,200 in the long run (or almost
13 percent of the original loan amount!).
. 19 .



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome     I impact Indicators:
E A ..dJi~ut          ~                    Ri*i   j4:  in last PAP                     a              Estimate
Introduction of new budgeting system and    year 1995                                   year 2000
downsizing of hospital bed capacity and staff. .
Beds in hospital care facilites             137148                                      150552
Physicians per 10000 population             34,7                                        33,8
Auxiliary medical personnel per 10000       .37.5                                        61.2
Improvement in mortality rates (decrease    year 1995                                   year 2000
Infant mortality to 14.0 per 1000 live births;
tnaternal mortality to 15.5 per 1000 live
births) and decrease of hospital referrals
(hospital referrals of adults to 10% of illness
cases).
Infant mortality                            '14,8                                       13.3
Maternal mortality                           19,5                                        17,6
Admitted patients                           1486552                                      1261151
Emergency service dispatch time decreased   )fear 1995                                  year 2001
to less than 2 minutes.                    1NO                                          'Yes
Increase the number of blood donors to      )iear 1996                                  year 2001
440.000 (1988 level) and decrease in number
of hepatitis B cases per year.
. Number of blood donors per 1000 of         19.5                                        19
population
Total number of blood-donors               165329                                      145128
* Total number of gratuitous blood-donors    154760                                      138779
. The amount of donated blood               (34905                                      64192
Output Indicators:
-IMnd-t    riMatrix                        liID[ .PPree nlastiPR              .        Act     LatbiftEimn'ate'--
Policy Analysis and Management  -           HPEAU established and functioning with 4    HPAU established and functioning with 3
(i) economic analysis unit is operating;    full-tme staffed positions;                 full-staffed positions and several members on
Training of HPEAU members                                                              when-needed-basis;
. Training of trainers                      4nembers trained;
* Number of regional training centers                                                   14 members with different background and
established                                                                           from different institutions trained;
* Number of MOH staff trained                                                           Team of 30 local lecturers prepared;
. Number of leading administrative staff                                                4 regional training centers established and
from the health system trained                                                        equipped: 40 people trained and certified:
115 people trained and certified on health
policy, economics, management and
informatics;
* Number of hospital managers trained                                                  220 people trained and certified on hospital
management;
* Number of trainees from outpatient health
care facilities                                                                       250 people from outpatient establishments
trained on organization of PHC, health policy,
economics and management;
(ii) various studies and pilot activities are                                           5 studies and report on problems of the
under implementation.                                                                 health care reform performed by 1998;
*20



- Technical report 'Analysis of out-patient
reform in Bulgaria' *- worked out in 2000;
- National Health strategy 'Better health for
better future of Bulgaria' and Plan of
Actions 2001 -2006 worked out and
adopted in 2001;
- Health status analysis developed and
published in 2001;
- 'Health care systems in transition --
Bulgaria' analysis of Bulgarian health care
system - published in 1998 and second
draft prepared in 2002.
Primary Health Care -- (i) number of      (i) 312 practices refurbished and equipped  - 374 practices rehabilitated
municipalities with an active PHC program;                                          - 1784 practices equipped (1682 individual
(ii) immunization rates; (iii) ratio of abortion to                                   and 102 group practices)
live births; (iv) availability of contracepdves.
Number of municipalities with active PHC  year 1995                                 year 2000
program                                   24                                        263
aatsio or abortidn tO Ive bIrl'hs         1,3                                       0,8
Availability of contraceptives            -                                         Yes
Immunization rates:                       year 1995                                 year 2000
1. % infants vaccinated against           98,58                                     96,6
tuberculosis
2. % infants vaccinated against diphteria  95,67                                    93,3
3. % infants vaccinated against tetanus   95,67                                     93,3
4. % infants vaccinated against pertusis  95,67                                     93,3
5. % infants vaccinated against measles   94,39                                     88,6
6. % infants vaccinated against poliomyelitis  96,8                                  98.3
7. % infants vaccinated against hepatitis B  95,45                                  91,3
8. % infants vaccinated against mumps     94,39                                     88,6
9. % infants vaccinated against rubella   94,39                                     88,6
Emergency Medical Services - (i) EMS no
longer ensures home visits, (ii) Introduction
of new software makes available reliable data
for EMS activities
Emergency cals                            5165 194 (1999)                            586 164 (2001)
Blood Transfusion -- (i) percentage       1996                                      2001
replacement of gJass containers by plastic
pouch
l Replacement of glass containers by
plastic pouch (%)                       910                                        100%
l The amount of processed blood  (%)1     74%                                        92.34%
l Obtained red cells (I)
O Obtained fresh frozen plasma (FFP) (I)  100%                                       100%
* Obtained outdated plasma                10236                                      15678
* Burden of staff with the amount of      11290                                      9750
donated blood                            61                                        75
l Burden of staff (number of blood-donors  155                                       169
per employee)
l Expenditures for liter of blood (BGN)   39000                                      95.25
(i) 100% testing for Hepatitis B and HIV
* Testing for Hepatitis B and HIV (%)     100%                                       1100%
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
-  <~~~~~~*  ~~~~            Ap~~~praisal                    P'erof--.,:,o
_7-.'                                     APs   g   - - 'Eslmate.? 
Project  ~~~~yornpoinx' -            UQ.~~~~~~1Hin-j.:.   -milion-_.
N. Polcy Analysis and NManagement                            2.80             2.58            81.61
2. Primary Healthcare                                       14.60              9.40             53.4
3. Emergency Medical Services                               13.40             15.22           102.72
4. Blood Transfusion                                        10.70             12.73            104.2
Total Baseline Cost                                         41.50             39.93
Physical Contingencies                                      3.30
Price Contingencies                                         2.30
Total Project Costs            I     47.10    I       39.93    I
Total Financing Required              1    47.10    I        39.93   1
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)   (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure  Category                     Procurement Method'                           Total Cost
IN         ~~NCB          Other'                      Totl   os
1. Works                          0.00            0.00           0.00           11.90          11.90
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          16.30           0.00           8.90            1.60          26.80
(15.20)         (0.00)          (8.10)         (0.00)        (23.30)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           3.30           2.50           5.80
(0.00)         (0.00)          (1.80)         (0.00)         (1.80)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           2.60           2.60
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.90)         (0.90)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          16.30           0.00           12.20          18.60          47.10
(15.20)         (0.00)         (9.90)          (0.90)        (26.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate)  (US$   million  equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure  Category         ICB            NCB           Other'          N,B.F'      Totaal Cost
1. Works                          0.00           0.00           0.00           11.40          11.40
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                          16.23          0.00            2.87           1.30          20.40
(16.23)         (0.00)         (2.87)         (0.00)        (19.10)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00            2.10           1.90          4.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.10)         (0.00)         (2.10)
22



4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00            4.00            4.00
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                            16.23           0.00            4.97            18.60          39.80
(16.23)          (0.00)          (4.97)          (0.00)         (21.20)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office. training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing bY Component (iin     USS   million equivalent),
.  _ .  , it  .         Apiiraisal Estiute              Actui Latest EltlmW
C::i5          :.~ Bank                 l GoF. t       Bank        Govt.     CoiT      Bank    Go&V    OR.
1. Policy Analysis and      0.50       0.20       2.30        0.30       0.03       2.20      60.0    15.0   95.7
Management
2. Primary Health Care      9.90        2.70       5.00       7.40       0.50       2.50      74.7    18.5    50.0
3. Emergency Medical        10.30       2.70       1.70       9.40        3.20       2.40     91.3    118.5   141.2
Services
4. Blood Transfusion        5.30        2.20       4.40       4.10        2.80       5.30     77.4    127.3  120.5
Total Disbursement          26.00       7.80       13.40     21.20        6.53      11.50     81.5    83.7    85.8
The difference of US$ 4.79 mln between the Appraisal Estimate of US$ 26.00 mln and the Actual/Latest estimate
of US$ 2 1.2 mln is due (i) to the conversion of the loan in 1998 from USS into DM when the project incurred
exchange rate losses in the amount of US$ 3.24 mln, and (ii) the remaining of US$ 1.55 represent unused funds
from the loan.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal Report did not include an economic analysis of the proposed project and the
ICR team did not attempt to make a retrospective evaluation. The team concluded, however, that
the project appeared to contribute to improved equity in access to health services, to the extent
that it targeted investments in underserved rural areas of Bulgaria.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
l) Missions. *
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      liaplementation  Development
Month/Year      Count        _   Specialty                        Progress      Objective
tdentificationlPreparation
Identification                 2   'rask Manager
mission: April                      Education Economist
12-18, 1992
Preparation
missions:
September 20-25,                    Task Manager
1992
February 7- 11,                     Task Manager
1993
May 3 I-june 15,               6    Task Manager
1993                              Environmental Health
Consultant
Sr. Population & Health
Specialist
Blood Transfusion & Immuno-
hematology Consultant
Health Education,
Cardiovascular
Diseases Consultant
Human Resources Specialist
November 7-20,                 8   Task Manager
1993                             Health Economists (2)
Sr. Population & Health
Specialist
Blood Transfusion & Immuno-
hematology Consultant
Emergency Services Specialist
Food Quality Control Specialist
Human Resources Specialist
Pre-appraisal                  8   Task Manager
mission: February                   Health Economists (2)
28-March 12, 1994                  Population & Health Specialist
Emergency Services Specialist
Food Quality Control Specialist
Health Promotion Specialist
Human Resources Project Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                           Task Manager
mission: October                    Population & Health
3-15, 1994                            Specialist
Health Economist
- 25 -



Implementation Specialist
Human Resources Specialist
Administrative Assistant
Food Quality Control
Specialist
Supervision
May 27-30, 1996                      Task Manager                           S               S
Portfolio Manager
Implementation Specialist
June 9-15, 1997                 2    Task Manager                           S               S
Sr. Health Specialist
September 17- 19,               4    Task Manager
1997                               Operations Officer
Operations Analyst
Sr. Implementation Specialist
December 4- 10,                      Task Manager                           U               S
1997                              Task Leader
Health Economist
Health Financial Consultant
Procurement Assistant
September 30-                   2    Primary Health Care Specialist
October 7, 1998                      Procurement Assistant
November 30-                    2    Sr. Health Specialist                  U               S
December 4, 1998                     Procurement Assistant
April 16-21, 1999               4    Team  Leader                           S               S
Operations Officers (2)
Procurement Analyst
June 7-17, 1999                  4   Team  Leader                           S               S
Health Specialist
Sr. Implementation Specialist
Procurement Analyst
November 14-29,                 4    Team  Leader                           S               S
1999                                Operations Officers (2)
Procurement Analyst
March 8-22, 2000                     Team  Leader                           S              S
Health Specialists (2)
Operations Officer
Procurement Analyst
Health Specialists (2 consultants)
September 1 1-22,               7    Team  Leader                           S             HS
2000                                 Operations Officers (2)
Procurement Analysts (2)
Health Specialist
Public Sector Specialist
.26.



January 20-                    8    Team Leader                          HS             HS
February 2, 2001                   Health Specialists (2)
Operations Analyst
Procurement Analyst
Operations Officers (2)
IT Specialist
July  1527,2001                8    Team Leader
Principal Health Specialist
Operations Officers (2)
Operations Analyst
Procurement Analyst
IT Specialist
HR Economist
November 5-8,                  5   Team  Leader                          HS             HS
2001                                Program Team Leader
Operations Officer
Procurement Analyst
IT Specialist
ICR
May 2 1-23, 2002               2    Team  Leader
Operations Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                               261.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     89.1
Supervision                                81.39                         286.4
ICR                                          4.9                           8.7
Total                                      86.29                         645.7
*Data on staff weeks not available for earlier stages of project preparation.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H--High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
-I Macro policies                         RJW   0 SU 0 M    ON *    NA
g Sector Policies                         0 H    *SUOM      0 N    OANA
3 Physical                                *H OSUOM O           N    O NA
O     Finanaal                            OH O SU OM      ON  0     NA
LI   Insitutonal Development              0    H O SU O M ON O NA
O    Environmental                        0    H     OSUOMONONA
Social
O    Poverty Reduction             O H    *SUOM      O N    O NA
OI Gender                           O H OSUOM O N ONA
D Other (Please specify)            0 H   OSUOM       0 N   O NA
O    Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
X Public sector management                0 H    * SU 0 M 0    N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                  0 H    OSUOM      0 N    O NA
- 28.



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6. I Bank performance                               Rating
O    Lending                                        OHS*S        OU     OHU
1  Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
J Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
12 Preparation                                      O HS * S     O U    O HU
O      Government implementation performance        0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance                0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
29



Annex 7. List of Supporting Docuruents
1. Aide memoires
2. Project Midterm Review
3. Report: Health Indicators
4. Minutes of Meeting with Stakeholders and Beneficiaries
5. Project Report of the Council of Europe Development Bank
6. Sociological Survey: Attitude of the Population and Medical Doctors to the PHC and EMS Systems in
Bulgaria
. 30 -



Additional Annex 8. ICR Consultations with Stakeholders and Beneficiaries
On May 22, 2002 the World Bank and Government teams for the project held a series of meetings
with project stakeholders and beneficiaries (list of participants attached at the end of this note).
These meetings confirmed that the project had significant impact on:
- improving the country's strategic planning capabilities in the health sector;
. attracting doctors to remote and poor areas;
- maintaining and improving the quality of the emergency services;
- improving the quality and efficiency of the national blood transfusion system.
In general, stakeholders and health statisticians agreed that the worsening health status of the
population could not be considered a good indicator for project effectiveness. Also, participants
identified a definitive relationship between poverty and health status, and believed that the project
was effective in targeting its interventions based on this relationship.
Policy Analysis Component
Main Component Results According to Partners and Stakeholders
*     Under this component a Health Policy Analysis Unit (HPAU) was created at the Ministry
of Health. The unit was sustained and expanded after the World Bank funding expired.
*     One of the main results of the unit's existence, according to the client (the Ministry of
Health) was the participation of the unit in the drafting of the National Health Strategy and Action
Plan, and more recently, of the National Strategy for Hospital Restructuring.
*     The HPAU provides MoH with needed expertise and flexibility for analyzing and drafting
strategic documents for the health sector.
Primary Health Care Component
Main Component Results According to Partners and Stakeholders
*     One of the most important results from the project was its expanding to cover 1784
general practices, rather than only the planned 342. 'Thus the project managed to equip virtually
all remote or otherwise unattractive practices in the country.
*     It was recommended that the ICR include a note on the favorable impact on the
population by providing services where they did not previously exist.
Eyewitness Examples
*     Mayor of Dorkovo Village, Pazardjik region, claimed that before the project intervention
there was virtually no primary health care in that village. At present there were two GP practices
in the village, covering the whole population.
*     Dorkovo GP explained that the improvements brought in by the project made him decide
to leave further academic work and attracted him back to the village.
*     In village of Samitza, Velingrad municipality, mayor reported vast improvement in the
health services to the population as a result of the project's intervention to refurbish and equip 2
practices in the old and dilapidated village health service building. This intervention brought
improved services to the village, which is 50 km from the municipal center (e.g. emergency
service), and has a school with 700 children. Mayor reported that such remote villages would
- 31 -



benefit from local EMS service.
*      Both Dorkovo and Samitza GPs confirmed that project benefits influenced their decision
to stay/return to their respective village practices.
*      GP of Samitza village confirned the improvement in the service and in the working
environment, and also stated that villages distant from municipal centers should have ambulances.
*     GPs from ethnic Roma neighborhood in Sliven expressed satisfaction with project results,
claiming that the number of visits to ethnic Roma practices increased 4 times since their practices
were moved into the neighborhood, and were refurbished and equipped.
*     Roma GPs noted that ethnic Roma have more serious health problems, and are considered
elderly when above 40 years of age, rather than 50 or 60, and other GPs rarely signed up male
Roma 40-60 on their lists. Also, charging user fees at Roma practices was not possible, and
number of referrals for specialists provided by NHIF were insufficient.
Emergency Medical Services Component
Main Component Results According to Partners and Stakeholders
*     The project supported the restructuring of the EMS system, and the equipment and
services are now in very good shape.
*     The project was flexible enough and provided GPS system for the EMS service vehicles.
200 vehicles (approx. of the fleet) were equipped with GPS, and project funding leveraged
additional Government funding which was used for providing a second voice line for the vehicles
based on the GPS modules. This additionally improved the security and efficiency of the
operations.
*     As a result of the project MoH is also now considering further expansion of the navigation
system with exceptional coverage by satellite for parts of the country without GSM-based
coverage.
* The GPS had a significant economic impact, reducing vehicle mileage by approx. 25%.
*      One of the issues that could be considered in future operations of this type would be to
plan carefully for the future maintenance costs. MoH did not plan centrally for the GPS
maintenance, and the budgets of the individual EMS branches were burdened with the costs.
*     The project not only bought new vehicles for the fleet, but managed to refurbish all old
vehicles.
*      One of the weaker points in the EMS is the lack of adequate training. In the future
similar projects should include more training.
*      Overall improvements of the EMS resulted in shortened arrival times for the teams, and
reduced number of deaths from 4.6 to 2.7 per 1000.
Evewitness Examples
*     Director of Sofia regional EMS claimed that introduction of GPS led to a reduction of
monthly kilometrage for his fleet of up to 10,000 km.
Blood Transfusion Component
Main Component Results According to Partners and Stakeholders
The project was the main engine of the restructuring of the BT system in the country.
-32-



*     National promotion campaign was conducted. In 2 months 4000 donors were attracted as
a result of the campaign.
*     New information system was installed in the centers.
New BT system introduced a closed system based on plastic bags and highest-level safety
for donors and personnel. Because of the improved processing of blood, and the increased
proportion of blood products used (as opposed to whole blood) the system preserved its
adequacy despite the dramatic drop in donors over the last years. After the restructuring of the
system, only 5% whole blood is used, as opposed to 30% before the new equipment.
*     One issue is the delayed finalization of the restructuring of the system, which was
supposed to concentrate all diagnostics and processing in the five regional centers. Now
approximately 50% of the blood is still processed in the-old 23 hospital blood transfusion wards.
Only STD diagnostics is concentrated in the 5 centers, which leads to inefficiency of the facilities
and the transportation.
33 -



_____ ____ _____ ____ ____List  of  Attendees
Name                                         Organization
I   Dr.Maksim Dimitrov Gaidev   MoHealth - Emergency Medical Services
2   Ass. Prof. Nelko Georgiev   Emergency Medical Services Centre - Sofia City
3   Dr. Diana Ivanova Dirmitrova  MoHealth - Emergency Medical Services
4   Dr. Georgi Ivanov Gelev     Emergency Medical Services Centre - Sofia County
5   Dr. Stefan Panayotov        GP, Sliven
Panayotov
6   Dr. Zhelyazko Todorov       GP, Sliven
Manolov
7   Dr. Todorka Georgieva       GP, Vetren Dol
Stoyanova
L    Dr. Andrei Vassilev Kehaiyov  Chair of the Bulgarian Medical association
9   Dr. Milka Petkova Kirova    l National Blood Transfusion Centre
10 Dr. Svetla Bakalova          National Blood Transfusion Centre
11  Dr. Lako Rashev Lakov       Regional Blood Transfusion Centre . Pleven
12 Dr. Sonya Stefanova          Regional Blood Transfusion Centre Plovdiv
Di evizova
13 Dr. Violeta Toncheva         National Blood Transfusion Centre
Magaeva
14 Ass. Prof. Donka P. Vasileva  National Blood Transfusion Centre
15 Dr. Krassirnir Stankov       GP
Sarnica village
16 Shukri Yakubov               Mayor of Sarnica village
17 Dr.Nikolay Vassilev Belev    GP, Dorkovo Village
18 Ivanica Stoyanov Koutoulov   Dorkovo Village Mayor
19 Tsvetan Petrov              Association of the Patients
20 Docho Mihailov               ASA Survey Agency
21 Dr. Michaela Mihailova       Head HSRP PMU
22 Dr. Staiko Koulaksazov       Director, Health Policy, International Cooperation
and EU Integration, Ministry of Health
34-



Additional Annex 9. Public Attitudes Towards the Primary and Emergency Health Services
Full Tile: Executive Summary of SOCIOLOGICAL SURVEY ON THE ATITUDE OF
THE POPULATION AND THE MEDICAL DOCTORS WITH REGARD TO THE
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SYSTEM AND EMERGENCY HEALTHCARE SYSTEM
IN BULGARIA
General impact of the project on health practices
Health status
(3      Health status depends chiefly on the way of living. The interviewed from villages and small
towns indicate more diseases with the exception of typically urban diseases like insult and heart attack.
0i      The subjective health status depends on the overall feeling for success and well-being.
Households with income up to 150 BGN have the highest share in almost all listed diseases.
Q3      The project contributes not only to the granting of material access to health services but also to
the feeling for care and attentiveness to the people in villages.
Prophylactic activities
0       There is considerable impact of the project on the prophylactic activities of doctors and patients.
80.0% of supported doctors say that in February 2002 they have carried out prophylactic breasts
check-ups compared with 52.4% of the non-supported doctors.
0       The doctor's permanent establishment in the village is a key factor for a better quality medical
care. Those doctors who visit their patients more frequently and live permanently in the populated area
perform more prophylactic activities.
Od      There is a considerable impact of the project on the level of self-treatment in the supported
villages which is about 10% lower than in the non-supported villages.
Health  Insurance
0       Doctors have on averagel8.5 consultations a month of persons without an insurance, which
equals to less than the average number of consultations for one workday.
I)      There are substantial differences between the level of assurance of Bulgarians (90.1%) and  the
other ethnical identity (72.4%). The majority of Romas, however, receive social and other types of
subsidies and should have a health insurance. Those who work without a labor agreement, constituting
about 30% of Romas, put the health insurance at risk.
Relief of emergent and specialized medical service
O       There is an impact of the project on the relief of the emergent and specialized medical service.
For example, the adjustments to turn to the family doctor when it is an emergency are about 10% higher
in the supported villages compared with the non-supported villages. In large populated areas, however,
the process of relief of the emergent and specialized medical service through general practitioners is
slow and inert. Only EMS doctors think that after the introduction of family doctors EMS calls have
increased.
0       A clear result from the project is the transition from the service of a medical auxiliary to the
service of a doctor. While in the non-supported villages there are 48.7% of respondents who say that
they have access to a medical auxiliary, in the supported villages this share decreases to  41.1%, and at
the same time the access to a doctor increases.
O       With the introduction of family doctors the range of the medical service has almost reached the
level in Sofia. In this way the reform in the health sector and the following support within the project are
beneficial mainly for the health care in villages.
.35 .



Impact of the project on the system of general practitioners
Stimulation of family practices
CD      The first impact of the project on the system of general practitioners is in the stimulation of new
family medical practices formation in villages. This effect has reached its climax in compound villages,
where 26.7% of the doctors have decided to become family doctors because of the rendered help within
the project.
3D      The project has attracted in the supported villages a substantial number of medical specialists
from various places. More than 55% of the doctors who work in the supported villages used to work
outside the rural health services before.
Family practices profile
O       The number of registered patients with chronic diseases is substantial and varies between 15%
and 20%. In more than a half of the check-ups general practitioners treat a restricted number of patients
with chronic diseases.
O       The time spent for filling in documents and other types of bureaucracy constitutes about  -of the
time general practitioners spend for the entire check-up of a patient. General practitioners themselves do
not do much to improve the organization of their visits. According to patients' data only 9.1% of the
doctors have asked their patients to visit them.
0       The granted equipment for electrocardiograms reduces the need for direction to specialized
check-ups. Only 20% of the supported general practitioners always direct patients with heart problems to
a specialist compared with 61.9% of the non-supported family doctors
0       The necessity to increase the number of counterfoils for specialized check-ups exists but it
should not be overestimated. Only in 3.2% of the cases patients did not visit a specialist due to a lack of
a free counterfoil. According to different survey the needs do not exceed the availability with more than
10%.
03      The need for training, retraining and education is a clearly stated need for family doctors: 51.4%
wish additional training or education, and almost a half of them wish to attend courses in computer
study, and the rest - various types of medical specialization and training. The most desired medical
specializations are general medicine and cardiology.
Access to the family doctor
C       The permanent presence of general practitioners in villages is a key factor for a good quality
access to health care. This is supported by the project substantially. But as a whole, according to data of
the population a general practitioner has hardly 2.84 days for consultation per week. The availability
decreases significantly in smaller populated areas and particularly in compound villages, where general
practitioners are available only 2.5 times a week in comparison with 7 days in Sofia.
03      Only 60.6% of the respondents know who to turn to if the family doctor is absent. Here the
impact of the project is also visible, and the awareness in the supported villages is about 8% higher in
comparison with the non-supported.
CD      The drawbacks in the work of general practitioners seem to vary according to the size of the
populated area. In smaller populated areas and particularly in villages general practitioners are
available fewer days for consultation and are harder to find. This is offset by the fact that in villages
home visits are more frequent, while in bigger cities general practitioners rely more on the phone.
Service quality and control
0       The percentage of patients who have declined the services of a family doctor decreases with the
improvement in the equipment. Doctors who have gone through training within the project also have
fewer patients who have declined their services.
-36.



O       On a national level the fined general practitioners are 54.5%, increasing to 56.8% in regional
centers and decreasing to 36.7% in Sofia. The chief reason for the fines is poor documentation handling
(55.3%). Only 0.6% are fined for inaccurate diagnosis, and 4.7% are fined for not directing the patient to
a specialist.
03     The family nature of the institution of general practitioners is more adequate for small
populated areas rather than for Sofia. The family doctor is apersonal doctor (for one family member) of
20.1% of Sofia residents in comparison with 14.5% of the residents in rural areas (a national sample) and
a doctor of 12.4% of small town residents respectively.
D      The patient's satisfaction from the family doctor depends chiefly on the actual interaction
between the doctor and the patient. Those who visit their general practitioner more frequently, and
know that the room is well equipped, and have more prophylactic activities, and suffer from more
diseases, are more satisfied from the general practitioner. The people from the supported populated
areas and the residents of villages are more positive towards family doctors as a whole.
OD      Patients have limited tools for health services quality control. Only 27.2% know how and where
to complain from their general practitioner and know even less as to how and where to praise the doctor
(25.2%).
Immediate material aid for General practitioners
O       According to data of the population the direct benefit from the granted equipment is highest
with respect to cardiograms, which are made two times more in the supported villages than in the
non-supported villages. According to data of the doctors electrocardiograms are made in 8%-9% of the
check-ups, and the gynecological chair - in 2-3 check-ups out of 100. Most doctors had equipment for
blood pressure measurement before the project initiation but their granting is very important since they
are used in almost a half of all check-ups.
O       As a whole 15.6% of those who live in the supported villages assess the equipment of the
general practitioner as venr, good in comparison with 10.2% of the non-supported villages, and 39.6% of
the supported doctors assess the equipment in the rooms as  very good in comparison with only 14.3% of
the non-supported doctors.
0      The project has a considerable impact on the perception of the building in which the family
doctor operates. According to 72.9% of the residents of the supported villages this building complies with
the hygiene standards in comparison with 68.8% of the residents of the non-supported populated areas.
Similarly, according to 83.7% of the supported doctors the project has contributed to the compliance of
the building with the hygiene standards.
O       Only 18.2% of the family doctors have computers in their rooms, and this percentage decreases
to 5.0% of the non-supported doctors. Computers, however, are not much needed if there is no
information system to connect to.
0       As a whole the interviews with mayors confirm the sustainability and adequacy of the rendered
aid to general practitioners as well as to EMS. More than two thirds of the mayors think that the granted
equipment is sufficient for the needs of the village. The project has also supported indirectly the local
municipality, which would have to repair the building with its own limited financial resources.
Impact of the project on the EMS system
EMS profile and capacity
O      The short distance between a patient's house and the EMS is one of the factors that affect the
more frequent calls to EMS. On average for the country EMS is located on 6.15km from the respondents'
houses, and the distance increases to 14.4km for villages and decreases to 3.6km for small towns.
O3      As a whole, 6.3% of the respondents on a national level say that they have turned to EMS in the
last month. According to data of the population one ambulance has approximately 6-7 visits a day on
average. These calculations are similar to the data from the interviews of EMS doctors, according to
which teams have 7.7 visits a day on average.
3       After 1994 the EMS capacity has increased substantially. The most visible positive changes are
with respect to the aid in the cases of drug poisoning and respiratory reanimation, and the number of
- 37.



services that can perform these activities has increased with 18% in comparison with 1994. The positive
changes are above all due to the increased capacity of the district EMS centers.
D       According to EMS doctors most service indicators change positively after the introduction of the
health insurance system. The changes in the services provided in wards are believed to be the most
positive ones.
Od      About 1/3 of the doctors have an acquired specialty (31.0%), and they are mainly in Sofia
(63.6%) and very rarely in the municipality centers (24.8%). The EMS doctors express strong desire for
additional training and learning (89.5%).
O       EMS is used illegally mainly in places where it is most easily accessible. The most common
reason for illegal calls is the flawless, fast and free service as well as the free medicines and no transport
costs.
Equipment
e       The project has contributed significantly to EMS equipment. Very dramatic are the differences
between the equipment before and after the project initiation in municipality EMS centers. However, the
doctors from municipality EMS services are the least satisfied with the equipment.
C       After the project initiation the technical level of the district EMS centers has equaled to a great
extent to Sofia services, which makes them an-tong the most satisfied from the given support.
O       The majority of EMS doctors find the acquired equipment within the project 'sufficient and
corresponding to the needs' (82.1%). Very pleased are the doctors in the regional centers (86.0%).
CD      As a whole, doctors are satisfied with the quality of the equipment in the ambulances, and the
majority of them (41.6%) pronounce it as 'good' and 23.1% as 'very good". Again the doctors from the
district services are the most positive, and the doctors from the municipality centers are the least
satisfied with the ambulances.
Satisfaction from the reforms. Doctors' recommendations
D       According to the population the most positive thing about the reform is the granted right to
choose and the shortened distance between patients and doctors. The most serious drawback can be
found in the increased social unfairness and the health services differentiation. According to the overall
data from the researches, however, the system of general practitioners and the following support within
the project emancipates and reduces the gap between the health services in the rural and distanced
populated areas and the services in Sofia and the big cities.
C3      According to doctors the most positive consequences from the introduction of the family doctor
are the increased knowledge of the patient and the improved connection between patients and doctors.
C       Family doctors are troubled mostly with the heavy accounting and documentation, the monthly
writing of recipes as well as with the changing regulations, which are often useless and/or inaccurate.
C       There is a strong need for the introduction of a computer information system, which should
reduce the bureaucratic and slow relationships with the Regional Health Insurance Fund, as well as
should reduce the time spent for documentation processing during check-ups.
(D      EMS as well as general practitioners expect relief of the untypical activities for them and
differentiation of responsibilities. In this direction are the proposals for hospice creation, increased
access to hospital care, increase in the counterfoils for specialists as well as the introduction of fees for
patients without health insurance.
C       EMS are troubled mainly with the lack of medical care prior to hospitalization at weekends as
well as with the numerous unscrupulous calls made by residents.
3       The majority of EMS are biased in their assessments of the reform in the health sector because of
the differences in the system for remuneration.
D       EMS doctors as well as general practitioners expect that the main mechanism for solving
problems and conflicts will be a balanced dialogue. Residents will need more easily accessible and
effective mechanisms to control and praise their family doctors.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 10. Official Government Comments on Draft ICR
REPITBLIC            OF BULC.ARTA
MINISTTYOFHF.AL.TR
s>r,,,. sl  aNu cJdSieq.             icL(13V-2) 9301 125 ru (1 359 2)9WM21
Yo    Kcf. .: .......,
To Mr.(Acar De Uruyn kop*
Resnidal Repmenbtivc
'i he Wortd b*nk Regickul
Miuilun In EiluarJn
Subfect: ICR  Htmitb Sbotr Rttcntnctring Promj
Dear Mr. Ib Bruyn Kopl,
I IJfIt wifit g  tttu wi thu10 ULi.J tl (itf rthe uUvLzI   uf the HinAldU 0   cc
Rstw*Un      Pujed BlUL 4tUO. Ibc AM*tii' of k1  i satisid frOi the oixa
asnd #-vmxditnsIve pecs ol ihe ICR diallting. uf:niost. the sMinlsuy of lWienth
is also ntistied tiom the ae s and rommeedaio bLid down in The ICR.
I would like to thunk you ntoSi wArmy for thy viauable cotribution WH maie Do ft
cernomic and kItl pwifiy nq uhN HtiluA rln Doveninintifrmu   ild2sSrtm.
I hop*  Ihu t linipy nl i   and Ik Wl will etmlirthee ad ai  teir i5tttti
jiint wirk wnd conporalkt hi Anitr to utliawc our commt gpuils.
Sluvteo            ,, Z 1
Deuy Mter
....
-39 -



Additional Annex 11. Data on Health Indicators: 2002 Report of the Ministry of Health
Morbidity
Statistics
The morbidity registered in 2000 by outpatient polyclinics is over 10 million, of which children under 17 years of
age account for 37%, or 2.5 illnesses per child a year; the corresponding figure for adults is 1.3 registered illnesses
a year. A total of 1,159,674 patients were discharged from hospital in 2000, of which children under 17 account for
12%. In the same year, the main cause of patients' hospitalisation include childbirth and pregnancy complications
(14.4%), respiratory diseases(13.6%), circulation diseases(13.2),diseases of the digestive system (8.2%),of the
urogenital system (8.3%) and neoplasiae (8.2%).
The morbidity rates registered by the general outpatient polyclinics by disease categories (Table 1) show a
considerable prevalence of respiratory diseases (2000 .38.8%; 1996-41.1%). Accounting for such a large share,
they top the list of disease morbidity. Next in the pattern of morbidity are the diseases of the nervous system and
the sense organs (2000- 12.0%; 1996 - 12.2%). Blood circulation diseases come third (2000 9.9%; 1996. 7.8%),
followed by traumas and intoxication, skin and subcutaneous diseases, diseases of the urogenital system and of the
digestive system. These disease categories account for 85.8% of general morbidity.
Figure 1. Diseases registered by the general health care facilities in 2000
U  Diseases of m, epistofy UyUt-n  , 38.8%
* Diseases d Ihe nU  yn 0, s ,.,n. 0
12.0%
3 510t7              D OiDeasess d drculatory ,ysl,m * 95.%
6.3        a       V  '  0 Acdd.nf. polsoningS 0d violene  7.4%
9.9      12.0
* Disease d s sd- wcd UssAO tiuue
B Di  .n   gefftouvinaly sys-em 6.2%
_   * Diseases 1 digs-- vy,.n . 5.2%
Table 1. Share (in %) of diseases registered by the general health care facilities from 1995 to 2000 by disease
category.
Classes                                         1995     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Infectious and parasitic diseases                  3,6     3,9     3,4     3,3     7,1     3,5
Neoplasms                                            0,7     0,7    0,7     0,7     0,7     0,7
Allergic, endocrine system, metabolic and             1,4     1,     1,7     1,7    1,7      1,8
nutritional diseases
Diseases of blood and blood forming organs           0,2     0,2    0,2     0,3     0,3     0.3
Mental, psychoneurotic and personality disorders     3,3     3,1    3,0     3,1     2,8     3,1
Diseases of the nervous system and sense organs     12,8    12,    11,8    12,1    11,5    12,0
Diseases of circulatory system                       7,      7,8   8,3     9,8     9,7     9,9
Diseases ofthe respiratory system                   40,8    41,1   42,1    39,0    37,8    38,8
Diseases ofdigestive system                            5     4,8    5,1     5,3     4,8     5,2
40



Diseases of genito-urinary system                   5,8     5,A    6,0     6,3 |   5,8    6,2
Deliveries and complications of pregnancy,          0,3     0,3    0,2     0,3     0,3    0,3
childbirth and puerperium                                                                      .
Diseases of the skin and cellular tissue            6,8     6,7    6,5     6,2     6,2    6,3
Diseases of the bones wonsDf movement               3,7     3,7    3,4     3,5     3,3    3,5
Congenital malformations                              0     0,1     0,1    0,1     0,1    0,1
Certain diseases of early infancy                     a     0,0     0,0    0,0     0,0    0,0
Symptoms, signs and undefined conditions            0,7     0,7    0,8     0,9     0,8    0,9
Accidents, poisonings and violence                7,5     7,4     6,7     7,4     7,1     7,4
Source: National Centre for Health Information
No substantial change is observed in the nosological pattern of morbidity in 1995-1996. The main cause of
consulting the doctors at the general outpatient polyclinics remain the respiratory diseases, followed by the diseases
of the nervous system and the sense organs and cardiovascular diseases.
Table 2. Diseases registered by the general health care facilities by age of patients per 1,000 population
Year                                                                       Age groups
Total                                0-14"
1980                   1371,2                              2035,7
1985                   1685,8                               2788,6
1990                   1511,9                              2655,4
1995                   1293,3                               2396,0
1996                   1367,1                              2068,0
1997                   1339,2                              2319,7
1998                   1313,7                              2382,6
1999                   1371,1                              2516,4
2000                    1334.9                              2497.7                      _
*As from 1996 the age groups are 0-I 7 and 18+.
Source: National Centre for Health Information
The morbidity among children (in the 0 -17 age group) registered in 1995-2000 exceeds almost two times the
morbidity among adults (Table 2). There was an increase in the incidence of diseases both in the 0-17 age group
and the 18+ age group. A downward trend is observed in the disease morbidity among both age groups in 2000
compared to 1999.
Sociological data
According to the sociological survey conducted under the project, the respondents from villages and small towns
complain of a larger number of disorders except for such typically urban diseases as apoplexy and infarction. The
respondents from villages and small towns complain of more of the listed diseases (except for infarction and other
chronic diseases) compared to the residents of Sofia and other big cities. Particularly high is the number of
respondents living in rural areas who complain of pain in the arms, legs and, to some extent, of discal hernia
(conditions ensuing from their being engaged in physical  labour). And vice versa, the respondents living in Sofia
and other big cities, as well as the respondents with higher education more often complain of such  urban diseases
as infarction, apoplexy or other heart problems.
The distribution by sex shows that men report more lung problems, apoplexy and infarction, while women
complain mainly of chronic conditions.
-41 -



Toa 444,44 1278,76 16 10,49 1374,20 1864,45 1677,651362,49 161 3,45
Number of rsaients writh chronic disease (total)262.75 172.38275.33248.5 1309.1632 1.563 18.60302.92
Number ofpatients with diseases of cardio-vascular system (total)157.0177.12155.87146.98212.13193.54177.54184.06
Nubrof patients with registered  neoptasm7.767.356.188.06 11.0611.29 19.84 11.07
lumber of natients with newlv discovered cancer diseases (for vear 2001)3.103.192.793.173.604.624.544.7
umber of immunized children from all subject to immunization (for year 2001)150.89121.88223.00134.30210.13177.15267.50181.98
umber of newbom children (for year 2001)11.729.4115.0010.6820.1116.9920.5516.21
umber ofpregnant women (for year 2001)12.4512.0614.6011.9216.4213.3510.6213.36
Source: A survey conducted among GPs
The subjective health status depends on the individual's overall feeling of success and well-being. For instance, the
members of households receiving an income of maximum 150 leva account for the largest share of those
complaining of almost all diseases listed herein. The contribution of the project consists not only in making
medical services more accessible but in the care and attention given to the people living in rural areas.
However, survey data show an upward trend in the morbidity rates for the population centres with newly registered
medical practices under the project. On the one hand, this initial negative result is due to the fact that already
existing diseases have been registered for the first time, on the other it is evidence of a broader access to medical
services. Although the respondents living in supported villages report a larger number of health problems, they
demonstrate a relatively better subjective health status compared with respondents from unsupported population
centres. Asked the question 'How do you see your health", 13.4% of respondents living in supported villages reply
very good, compared to 9.5% of respondents from unsupported villages.
Malignant tumours
Statistics
The morbidity rates and incidence of malignant tumours reveal a sustained upward trend. The number of newly
registered cases has been increasing.
Figure 2. Registered malignant tumour cases per 100,000 population
3000
1500                                               EB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Total
ONew cases
1996        1997        1998        1999        2000
Most often the cases of malignant tumours involve first of all breast cancer, followed by cancer of the skin, the
uterus or the cervix, cancer of the trachea, the bronchi, the lung and the prostate.
- 42 -



Figure 3. Registered malignant tumour cases per 100,000 population in urban and rural areas
3000
2500
2000
U Rural
1997        1998        1999        2000
It should be noted that the malignant diseases morbidity is higher in the rural areas compared with the urban ones.
Sociological data
In general the results of the sociological survey conducted among medical doctors and members of the public
indicate that the examinations aimed to prevent cancer are few. The portion of medical examinations of the
prostate in men is critically low (5.3%). Though on a better level, the preventive gynaecological examinations of
women, including Pap's test, represent only 14.3%. The share of women in the critical middle-age (30-50 years)
who have been given such examinations is only 22.7%. The project contributed to the enhancement of preventive
measures, as a result of which the number of gynaecological examinations in the villages supplied with medical
equipment under the project has increased by* 6%-7%, reaching 13%.
The project's effect on the health policy is confirmed by the survey held among medical doctors, too. For instance,
80.0% of the supported medical doctors say they have conducted preventive gynaecological examinations of
women and their breasts, which compares to 52.4% of unsupported doctors. The supported doctors who conducted
preventive gynaecological, including Pap's test, and prostate examinations in February 2002 were twice more than
the unsupported ones.
Chronic diseases
According to data released by the National Statistical Institute (NSD, in the past four years chronic diseases
morbidity has dropped both among men and women, and yet the number of cases suffering from chronic diseases
remains high.
The share of persons suffering from chronic diseases has shrunk considerably, from 57.5% in 1996 to  46.4%, or by
11.1%. For men the drop is by10.7%, and for women by 11.0%. These results, however, should be accepted as
somewhat conditional.
Women suffer more often from chronic diseases than men. In March 2001, one in two women had a chronic
disease. The men suffering from chronic diseases are 10% fewer. The chronic disease morbidity rates increase in
parallel to the advancement in age.
A survey among GPs reveals a considerable number of registered chronic cases. On the average, a GP in Bulgaria
has over 300 patients on his chronic diseases list, which is between 15% and 20% of all patients in his/her registry
book. An indirect argument about the effect of the project is the larger share of patients suffering from cardiac and
chronic diseases registered in supported villages. For instance, the share of patients with heart disorders registered
- 43 -



by a supported medical doctor is by about 4% bigger than the share of those registered by unsupported doctors.
Abortions
Although comparative data on abortions show that Bulgaria is one of the countries with the highest abortion rates
compared with the developed European countries, there has been a downward trend in the number of abortions in
the past five years. In 1995, the number of abortions performed at health care facilities was 97,092, in 2000 it was
61,378. In 1998, abortions substantially exceeded births, but in 2000 the situation was reversed, with births
exceeding abortions.
Figure 4: Births and abortions
120000_
100000
80000
4-- =Abortions
60000
--Births
20000       R_
1995     1996     1997    1998     1999     2000
For the first time in 30 years there were more births than abortions. In 1995-2000, voluntary abortions accounted
for 78.5% to 86.5% of the general patternof abortions. Spontaneous abortions came next, with a share of 9.6% to
17.3%, and the abortions performed on medical indications accounted for 2.6% to 4.2%. There was an increase in
the number of spontaneous abortions and of their relative share in the period under review.
Infant mortality
Statistics
The 1995-2000 period is characterised by a fluctuation in infant mortality rates. Infant mortality in rural areas is
higher than that in urban areas (15.5 per 1,000 live births for rural areas; 12.1 per 1,000 live births for urban
areas).
Table 4: Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)
Year                   Total                  Urban                Rural
1995                   14.8                   14.0                 16.7
1996                   15.6                   148                  17.5
1997                  117.5                  ,115.7               122.0
1998                 l14.4                   112.9                118.5
1999                 114.6                   113.4                117.6
2000                  11.                     112.1               115.5,
Source: National centrefor Health Information
The highest infant mortality rate was registered in 1997. 17.5 per 1,000 live births, then infant mortality began to
decline. In 2000, the infant mortality rate was 13.3 per 1,000 live births. According to official statistics, before that
moment the lowest level of infant mortality was registered in 1988. 13.6 per 1,000 live births.
* 44 -



Table 5: Perinatal, neonatal and postneonatal mortality (per 1,000 live births)
Year                 Perinatal             Neonatal              Postneonatal
1995                 1 1,8                 7.8                  7,1
1996                 13,0                 8.2                   7,5
1997                 13,3                  8.9                  8,6
1998                 13,0                  8.2                  6,3
1999                112,9                 8.3                   6,4
2000                 12.2                  7.5                   5,9
Source: National Centre for Halth Information
Until 1998, perinatal mortality was on the increase, in 1999-2000 it dropped to 12.2 per 1,000 live births. There
was a decline in the postneonatal mortality rate in 2000, too, when it fell to 7.5 per 1,000 live births. Postneonatal
mortality dropped to 5.9 per 1,000 live births in 2000, compared to 7.1 per 1,000 live births in 1995 and 8.6 per
1,000 live births in 1997.
Table 6: Early neonatal and late neonatal mortality (per 1,000 live births)
Year                 Early                 Late
1995                5,52                  2,25
1996                5,39                  2,77
1997                5,83                  3,06
1998                5,55                  2,66
1999                5,57                  2,73
2000                 4,72                  2,73
Source: European Health for All Database
The share of early neonatal mortality is bigger, while the late neonatal mortality rates stayed comparatively stable.
Sociological data
By supporting family doctors in the villages, the project has considerably broadened the scope and improved the
quality of health care provided to children. For instance, 52.3% of respondents have consulted the district or
village doctor about their children, compared to 70.1% of respondents who have had their children examined by
the family doctor. According to the family doctors themselves, one of five visits to the doctor is related to a child.
* 45 -



-46 -






Report No.:          24282
Type:     ICR
I            - - ~ - - - _ - - -  - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _



