Page  1
February 23, 2000
His Excellency 
Muravei Radev 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
102 Rakovski Street 1040 
Sofia 
Republic of Bulgaria
Re:
Loan No. 4000-BUL (Health Sector Restructuring Project)
Amendments to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-referenced Project, dated May 9, 
1996, between the Republic of Bulgaria (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).  We also refer to your letter of January 
20, 2000, and the fax from the Ministry of Health on February 17, 2000, requesting the 
Bank to amend the said Loan Agreement in order to extend the scope of two of the 
components of the Project, namely, Primary Health Care Component and Emergency Medical 
Services Component.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank has agreed to your request.  
Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
1.
Part B.2 of Schedule 2 should read as follows: “Providing equipment and 
furnishings for minor rehabilitation of up to 1000 local health centers and 
polyclinics.”
2.
Part C (i) and (ii) of Schedule 2 should read as follows: 
“(i)
minor civil works and equipment for base stations in the periphery 
and 
emergency rooms in 27 regional hospitals and 122 community 
hospitals; 
(ii)
up to 205 appropriately equipped intervention vehicles for the 
medical teams 
and up to 45 ambulances for the basic life support 
teams in the pre-hospital 
services;” 
3.
In Paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 5, the words “select up to 75 municipalities in 
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank” are deleted and replaced with the words 
“select a maximum number of municipalities throughout the territory of Bulgaria on the 
basis of criteria agreed to by the Bank and Project funds”. 
4.
In Paragraph 3(b) in Schedule 5, the date to conclude agreements with regard to 
the implementation of Part B of the Project is changed from December 31, 1996 to 
December 31, 2000.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating 
the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.  The amendment will become 
effective on the date hereof upon receipt of your countersigned copy by the Bank.  A 
signed duplicate copy of the letter is enclosed for your records.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
By /s/ Muravei Radev 
Authorized Representative 
Dated: April 13, 2000
