Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1884 SE
            (Municipal and Housing Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                  BANQUE DE L'HABITAT DU SENEGAL
                        Dated May 27, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  May  27,  1988,  between  the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and BANQUE DE L'HABITAT
DU SENEGAL (BHS).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith  between  Republic  of  Senegal  (the  Borrower)  and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing  Rights  (SDR 32,500,000), on the
terms and conditions set  forth  in  the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that BHS agree to undertake such obli-
gations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
and
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and BHS  and  by the agreement referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of the  Development Credit Agreement, part of the
proceeds of the credit  provided  for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made  available  to  BHS on terms and conditions
set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS BHS, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as  so  defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of BHS
     Section 2.01. (a) BHS  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and E.2
of the Project and conduct  its  operations and affairs, in accor-
dance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
and experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes.
     (b)  For the purposes of carrying  out Part A of the Project,
BHS shall:
          (i)  apply  eligibility   criteria   acceptable  to  the
               Association for  activities  to  be  financed under
               Sub-loans;
         (ii)  make Sub-loans to  local  governments  at an annual
               variable interest rate  equal  to the discount rate
               of BCEAO plus  two  percentage  points  (2%) with a
               maturity of  seven  years,  including  one  year of
               grace,   unless    otherwise    approved   by   the
               Association;
        (iii)  make Sub-loans  to  local  governments under agree-
               ments  containing  all   provisions  of  the  model
               agreement approved  by  the  Association  under the
               provisions of paragraph 3 (b)  (i) of Schedule 1 to
               the Development Credit Agreement;
         (iv)  present to the  Association  for approval the first
               three Sub-loans to  be  made  under  Part  A of the
               Project together with a description of the activity
               to be financed  by  any  such Sub-loan, including a
               report on the  fulfillment  of the eligibility cri-
               teria and such other information as the Association
               shall reasonably request; and
          (v)  present to the Association, for authorization, each
               Sub-loan to be made  under  Part  A of the Project,
               for which no  approval  by  the  Association is re-
               quired pursuant to  the  provisions of subparagraph
               (iv)  of  this  Section,  together  with  a summary
               description of the  activity  to  be financed under
               the Sub-loan and a report on the fulfillment of the
               eligibility criteria.
     (c)  For  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part  E.2  of the
Project, BHS shall:
          (i)  in the selection of activities to be financed under
               Sub-loans and  in  the  selection of beneficiaries,
               apply the criteria specified  in  the Annexes I, II
               and IV to the Statutes of BHS with the exception of
Page  3
               the criteria  relating  to  the  size  of plots and
               density of construction;  such  criteria shall, for
               the  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part  E.2  of the
               Project, not be  changed  without prior approval of
               the Association;
         (ii)  make Sub-loans at  an  annual  interest rate of the
               privileged  discount  rate   of  BCEAO  plus  three
               percentage points  with  a  repayment  period of at
               least fifteen years; and
        (iii)  make all  Sub-loans  to  beneficiaries under agree-
               ments containing all provisions of the model agree-
               ment, approved by the  Association under the provi-
               sions of  paragraph  3  (c)  of  Schedule  1 to the
               Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.02. BHS shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Sub-loan in such manner  as  to: (i) protect the interests of
the Association and of BHS; (ii) comply with its obligations under
this  Agreement  and  the   Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  the  MCF
Agreement and  the  Tripartite  Agreement;  and  (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03. BHS shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, and 9.07 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, and records  and  reports)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Parts A and E.2 of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  BHS  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Tripartite Agreement, and
the MCF  Agreement.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, BHS shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of assigning, amending,  abrogating or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, the  Tripartite  Agreement, the MCF Agree-
ment, or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) BHS shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Parts A and  E.2  of  the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement,  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the Tripartite Agreement and the  MCF Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  BHS shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by BHS of its obligations under this Agreement,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Tripartite Agreement or the MCF
Agreement.
     Section 2.06. By January 31  of each year during execution of
the Project, BHS shall  review  with the Association, the Ministry
responsible for finance, the  Ministry  responsible for the super-
vision of local governments, and  the Project Unit, the operations
of MCF, in particular,  the  number  and aggregate amount of loans
made out of the resources of  MCF during the previous fiscal year,
the amount of  resources  available  to  MCF  and  the actual loan
recovery rate of MCF loans.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) BHS  shall maintain procedures and separate
records for Parts  A  and  E.2,  respectively.  Such records to be
adequate to monitor and record the  progress of Parts A and E.2 of
the Project (including their cost  and  the benefits to be derived
from  them)  and  to   reflect  in  accordance  with  consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of BHS.
Page  4
     (b)  BHS shall:
          (i)  have its, and  MCF's,  records, accounts and finan-
               cial  statements  (balance  sheets,  statements  of
               income  and   expenses,   and  related  statements)
               audited for  each  fiscal  year  in accordance with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as  soon as available
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year, (A) certified copies of
               its financial statements and MCF's financial state-
               ments for  such  year  as  so  audited  and (B) the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as  well  as  the  audit  thereof as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, BHS shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such  fiscal  year,  together  with the pro-
               cedures and  internal  controls  involved  in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 3.02. BHS shall  take  such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be  necessary  to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from  changes  in  the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including CFAF) used in its operations.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of BHS  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
Page  5
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate; or
         (ii)  a  date  fifteen  years  after  the  date  of  this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the  Development  Credit  Agreement terminates before
the date specified  in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BHS of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For BHS:
          Banque de l'Habitat du Sånågal
          Boulevard du Gånåral de Gaulle
          B.P. 229
          Dakar, Sånågal
          Cable address                     Telex:
               ______________                  3275-SG
               ______________
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  BHS,  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Director General, or by such other  person or persons as BHS shall
designate in writing,  and  BHS  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  6
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                        BANQUE DE L'HABITAT DU SENEGAL
                        By /s/ Falilou Kane
                                         Authorized Representative
