Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1884 SE
            (Municipal and Housing Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 27, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1884 SE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 27,  1988,  between  REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  part of the Project  will  be  carried  out by Banque de
l'Habitat du Sånågal (BHS) with  the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the  Borrower  will make available to BHS
part of the proceeds of the  Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
     (C)  part of the Project  will  be  carried out by the Commu-
nautå de Dakar (CUD) with  the  Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower  will  make available to CUD part
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
     (D)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
Canada (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA  Grant) in an amount equivalent to
two million seven hundred  thousand dollars ($2,700,000) to assist
in financing part of the  Project  on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement  (the  CIDA  Grant  Agreement) to be entered
into  between  the  Borrower   and   the  Association,  acting  as
Administrator of the CIDA Grant; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreements of even  date  herewith between the Association
and BHS and the Association and CUD;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BHS Project Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Association and BHS of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (b)  "CUD Project Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Association and CUD of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BHS pursuant to Section 3.O1
(d) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (d)  "Special  Accounts"  or   "Special   Account"  mean  the
accounts or an account  referred  to  in  Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
     (e)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  June 18, 1987 and August 20, 1987
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (f)  "LDC" means the Land  Development  Corporation to be es-
tablished in accordance with Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;.
     (g)  "Project Unit" means  the  unit  referred  to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Tripartite Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by the Borrower, BHS and  LDC pursuant to Section 3.01 (f) of
this Agreement;
     (i)  "MCF Agreement" means the  agreement  to be entered into
by the Borrower  and  BHS  pursuant  to  Section  3.01 (d) of this
Agreement;
     (j)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
BHS to a beneficiary under Part  A  or E.2 of the Project pursuant
to the provisions of Sections 2.01  (b) and (c) of the BHS Project
Page  3
Agreement;
     (k)  "BCEAO" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest;
     (l)  "MCF" means  the  Municipal  Credit  Fund established in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  6.01  (b)  of this
Agreement;
     (m)  "Statutes" means the statuts and the r®glement intårieur
of BHS;
     (n)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; and
     (o)  "FY" means the fiscal year of BHS, starting on October 1
of each year and ending on September 30 of each subsequent year or
such other dates as  shall  be  defined  in the applicable banking
legislation.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  thirty-two  million  five  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,500,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree amounts  to  be paid) by BHS on account
of withdrawals  made  by  a  beneficiary  under  a  Sub-loan under
Parts A and E.2  of  the  Project  to  meet the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the  activity in respect of which
the withdrawal from the Credit  Account is requested; and (ii) ex-
penditures made (or,  if  the  Association  shall  so agree, to be
made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods and services
required for the other Parts of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  open  and  maintain  in  CFAF three
special accounts (the  Special  Accounts)  in  commercial banks on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  Special Account A for  the purposes of carrying out
               Part A of the Project;
         (ii)  Special Account B for  the purposes of carrying out
               Parts B through D of the Project;
        (iii)  Special Account C for  the purposes of carrying out
               Part E.2 of the Project.
     Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Prepa-
ration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  March 31, 1995 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
Page  4
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each  March 1 and September 1,
commencing September  1,  1998,  and  ending  March  1, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
March 1, 2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall  be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is here-
by specified for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2  of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall  carry out Part C of the Project
through the Traffic  Bureau  within  its  Ministry responsible for
transport, in cooperation  with  CUD,  and  Part  D of the Project
Page  5
through the General Directorate  of  Taxes  and Domains within its
Ministry  responsible  for   finance,   both   under  the  overall
coordination  of  the  Project   Unit,   with  due  diligence  and
efficiency and in  conformity  with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  During execution  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower shall
maintain within its Ministry responsible  for the plan the Project
Unit, which shall be  responsible for the administrative coordina-
tion of the execution of  Parts  B,  C  and  D of the Project, the
preparation of documents for  (i)  the procurement of goods, works
and consultants' services  under  Section  3.02 of this Agreement,
and (ii) applications for withdrawals  from the Credit Account for
Parts B, C and  D  of  the  Project.  The  Borrower shall keep the
Project Unit adequately staffed to carry out its responsibilities.
     (c)  The Borrower  shall  cause  BHS  and  CUD  to perform in
accordance with the provisions  of  the  BHS Project Agreement and
the CUD Project Agreement,  all  the respective obligations of BHS
and CUD therein set forth,  shall  take  and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BHS and CUD to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (d)  The Borrower  shall,  for  the  purpose  of carrying out
Part A of the Project, relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to Category (1)  of the table set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to  this  Agreement under an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower  and BHS acting as administrator
of MCF, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
which shall include a variable  annual interest rate equal, at all
times, to the regular  discount  rate  of  BCEAO and a maturity of
20 years including a grace period of 10 years.
     (e)  The Borrower  shall  for  the  purposes  of carrying out
Part E.2 of the Project  relend  the  proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated from time to time to Category  (2) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be  entered  into  between the Borrower and BHS,
under terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Association which
shall include a variable annual interest rate equal, at all times,
to the  privileged  discount  rate  of  BCEAO  plus two percentage
points (2%) and a maturity  of twenty-five years including a grace
period of ten years.
     (f)  For the purpose of carrying out Part E.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall enter into  an  agreement with BHS and LDC (the
Tripartite Agreement) under  terms  and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, which shall  include  the responsibilities of LDC
relating to the  carrying  out  of  Part  E.1  of the Project, the
financial arrangements to be made for the initial operation of LDC
and the arrangements to be made  to provide to LDC the land needed
for the carrying out of Part E.1 of the Project.
     (g)  Without limitation on  the  generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a)  of  this  Section,  the  Borrower shall, for the
purposes of making available its contribution to Parts B through D
of the Project open and maintain in its Treasury a Caisse d'Avance
under terms and conditions  acceptable to the Association, deposit
into such account  an  initial  deposit  of  CFAF 40.0 million and
replenish the account, as and when needed.
     (h)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement,  the  Tripartite  Agreement and the MCF
Agreement in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and, except as  the  Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the Tripartite Agreement, the MCF Agreement or any
Page  6
provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts B through D  of  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. During execution  of  the Project, the Borrower
shall employ, on a full-time  basis,  within the Traffic Bureau, a
chief, an engineer, three technicians and two draftsmen.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth  in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the  General  Conditions  (use  of goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively)  in  respect  of:  (i)  Part  B  of the
Project shall be carried out  by  CUD  pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the CUD Project Agreement; and (ii) Parts A and E.2 of the Project
shall be carried out by  BHS  pursuant  to Section 2.03 of the BHS
Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. By June 30,  1992, the Borrower shall carry out
a review of all  issues  relevant  to  the transfer of the Traffic
Bureau from its  Ministry  responsible  for  transport  to CUD and
exchange views with the Association on the results of such review.
     Section 3.06. By December 31,  1989, the Borrower shall carry
out a review to determine the  fiscal revenue effect of the exemp-
tions set forth in Articles  246  (9)  and  247 of its General Tax
Code (Loi No. 87-10, dated  February  21, 1987) and exchange views
with the Association on the results of such review.
     Section 3.07.  Taking  into  consideration  the  review to be
carried out under Section  3.06  of  this  Agreement and not later
than June 30, 1992,  the  Borrower  shall take all measures, which
might be necessary, to increase  the  annual tax revenues of local
taxes (property taxes, patente,  licenses, garbage collection fee)
in the territory of the three  communes  of the Dakar region by at
least forty percent (40%) as  compared to the average annual local
tax revenues of the years 1985 through 1987.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts B, C  and D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out of Parts B, C and D of the project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Accounts for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
Page  7
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such  fiscal  year,  together  with the pro-
               cedures and  internal  controls  involved  in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BHS shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the BHS Project Agreement  or  CUD shall have failed to per-
form any of its obligations under the CUD Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make  it improbable that BHS or CUD
will be able to perform their respective obligations under the BHS
Project Agreement or the CUD Project Agreement.
     (c)  the Statutes shall  have  been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of BHS to perform any of its obligations under the BHS
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BHS or CUD or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of MCF.
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               The right of the  Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of the CIDA  Grant  made  to  the  Borrower for the
               financing of part  of  the  Project shall have been
               suspended, cancelled or  terminated  in whole or in
               part, pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the  CIDA Grant
               Agreement.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
Page  8
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the project are available to the Borrower
               from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c),  (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.O1. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning  of  Section  2.O1 (b) of the General
Conditions.
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BHS;
     (b)  the Borrower has established  MCF, through a decree, and
modified the  existing  arrete\08'  interministe\08'riel  No.  1224, dated
January  25,  1978,  relating   to   the  Fonds  d'Equipement  des
Collectivite\08's Locales;
     (c)  the Statutes  of  BHS  have  been  amended  in  a manner
acceptable to the Association in  order to authorize BHS to manage
the MCF;
     (d)  the Borrower has signed the MCF Agreement with BHS;
     (e)  LDC has been  established  and  its statutes and capital
structure are acceptable to the Association;
     (f)  the Tripartite Agreement has  been executed on behalf of
the Borrower, BHS and LDC;
     (g)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
CIDA Grant Agreement, other than  the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, have been fulfilled; and
     (h)  the Borrower has employed  one  accountant and two civil
engineers for the Project Unit.
     Section 6.O2. The following  are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section  12.O2 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
     (a)  that the BHS Project  Agreement has been duly authorized
by BHS and is  legally  binding  upon  BHS  in accordance with its
terms;
     (b)  that the CUD Project  Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by CUD and  is  legally binding upon CUD in accordance
with its terms; and
     (c)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the  Borrower  and BHS and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and BHS in accordance with its terms.
Page  9
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
l2.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministe\08`re de l'Economie et des Finances
          Rue Charles Laine\08'
          B.P. 4017
          Dakar
          Se\08'ne\08'gal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINIFINANCES                     3203SG
               Dakar
               Se\08'ne\08'gal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                         REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                         By /s/ Falilou Kane
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  10
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans under            2,350,000        100%
     Part A of the
     Project
(2)  Sub-loans under            9,400,000        100%
     Part E.2 of the
     Project
(3)  Consultants'                 830,000        100% of foreign
     services under                              expenditures and
     Part D of the                               80% of local
     Project                                     expenditures
(4)  Operating cost             1,500,000        100% of foreign
     under Part D                                expenditures and
     of the Project                              80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(5)  Training under               130,000        100% of foreign
     Part B.4 of the                             expenditures and
     Project                                     80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Works under                2,500,000        100%
     Part B.2 and B.5
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Works under                9,500,000        100% of foreign
     Part C.2 through                            expenditures and
     C.4 of the Project                          80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(8)  Equipment, vehicles,       4,300,000        100%
     furniture, supplies
     and materials
(9)  Operating expenses           680,000        100%
     of, and consultants'
     services for, the
     Project Unit
(10) Refunding of                  530,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(11) Unallocated                   780,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 32,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of  the  Borrower;  provided,  however,  that if the
currency of the Borrower is also  that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such  goods  or  services  shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made in respect of Category (1): (i) before the
Association has approved the model agreement to be entered into by
BHS and  local  governments  for  Sub-loans  under  Part  A of the
Project and the eligibility criteria for activities to be financed
by Sub-loans under Part A of the Project; (ii) unless the Sub-loan
shall have  been  approved  by  the  Association  pursuant to Sec-
tion 2.01 (b) (iv) of  the  BHS Project Agreement or authorized by
the Association pursuant to Section 2.01 (b)(v) of the BHS Project
Agreement; provided, however, that:
     (A)  no withdrawals shall be made  for Sub-loans under Part A
          of the  Project  during  any  of  the  fiscal years 1989
          through 1993 unless BHS  has  established, to the satis-
          faction of the  Association,  that  BHS has approved new
          loans to be financed  out  of  the  resources of the MCF
          aggregating at least:
          CFAF 400 million in FY 1989;
          CFAF 500 million in FY 1990;
          CFAF 700 million in FY 1991;
          CFAF 800 million in FY 1992;
          CFAF 1.0 billion in FY 1993;
          (Unless such ceilings are  otherwise  agreed upon by the
          Borrower and the Association.)
     (B)  the cumulative withdrawals made under Category (1) shall
          not exceed:
          SDR 500,000 by the end of FY 1989;
          SDR 1,000,000 by the end of FY 1990;
          SDR 1,750,000 by the end of FY 1991;
          SDR 2,250,000 by the end of FY 1992;
          SDR 2,350,000 by the end of FY 1993;
     (c)  payments made  in  respect  of  Category  (2) before the
Association has approved the model agreement to be entered into by
BHS and beneficiaries of Sub-loans  under Part E.2 of the Project;
provided, however, that:
     (A)  no  withdrawals  shall  be   made  for  Sub-loans  under
          Part E.2 of  the  Project  during  any  of  the FYs 1989
          through 1993 unless BHS  has  established, to the satis-
          faction of the Association:
Page  12
          (i)   that BHS has approved new loans to be financed out
                of  its  own  resources   for  activities  and  to
                beneficiaries which  would  be  eligible under the
                eligibility criteria referred  to  in Section 2.01
                (c) (i) of the  BHS Project Agreement numbering at
                least:
                800 loans in FY 1989;
                900 loans in FY 1990;
                1,000 loans in FY 1991;
                1,000 loans in FY 1992;
                1,200 loans in FY 1993;
          (ii)  that housing such loans aggregate at least:
                CFAF 2,900 million in FY 1989;
                CFAF 3,400 million in FY 1990;
                CFAF 4,000 million in FY 1991;
                CFAF 4,200 million in FY 1992;
                CFAF 5,200 million in FY 1993.
                (In the calculation  of  the aforementioned aggre-
                gates, loans made by  BHS to self-help builders of
                individual housing units shall  be multiplied by a
                factor of two.)
     (B)  the cumulative withdrawals made under Cateogry (2) shall
          not exceed:
          SDR 4,700,000 by the end of FY 1989;
          SDR 7,000,000 by the end of FY 1990;
          SDR 9,400,000 by the end of FY 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to improve the resources
and the efficiency  of  metropolitan  Dakar's local governments in
policy making related  to  service  delivery and urban investment,
and to expand the  economic  impact  and efficiency of the housing
sector through an expansion  of  BHS's  activities and through the
increased supply of serviced and titled plots.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Municipal Credit Fund
     Provision of Sub-loans to local governments for the financing
of income generating projects.
Part B:   Strengthening of CUD's Technical Department
1.   Acquisition of civil works  equipment and vehicles needed for
infrastructure maintenance;
2.   Rehabilitation,  including  extension   and  remodelling,  of
buildings of the technical services;
Page  13
3.   Technical assistance;
4.   Short-term and long-term  training  programs for selected key
staff members; and
5.   Rehabilitation of  about  25  schools,  165  public latrines,
eight health facilities, and three administrative field offices of
CUD.
Part C:   Traffic and Public Transport Management in Dakar
1.   Technical assistance  to  the  Traffic  Bureau  (Bureau de la
Circulation);
2.   Rehabilitation  of  CUD's  main   collector  roads  (68  km),
including:
     (a)  reconstruction of about 33 km of roads;
     (b)  resurfacing of about 28 km of roads; and
     (c)  minor repairs on about 7 km of roads.
3.   Implementation of the traffic  management plan in the central
Dakar area (Plateau), including:
     (a)  repairs and remodeling works on selected street sections
and junctions;
     (b)  installation of street lighting;
     (c)  installation of traffic signals; and
     (d)  establishment of parking lots.
4.   Improvement of key  junctions  and  selected  sections of the
national urban road network in metropolitan Dakar, including:
     (a)  road remodeling and repairs;
     (b)  construction of sidewalks;
     (c)  installation of street lightings; and
     (d)  installation of traffic signals.
Part D:   Municipal Resource Mobilization
1.   Establishment of a fiscal cadastre for the territories of the
three communes of the Dakar region.
2.   Computerization of the data  base  of the fiscal cadastre and
improvement of the computerized processing  of the tax billing for
the territories of the  three  communes  of  the Dakar region, and
acquisition of computer equipment and software therefor.
Part E:   Housing Component
1.   A program of land  development  for  servicing and titling of
approximately 1,800 plots annually.
2.   Provision of housing  loans  for  very low-cost, low-cost and
medium standard housing as defined in  Section 2.01 (c) (i) of the
BHS Project Agreement.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  14
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided  in  Part  D  hereof,  goods and works for
Parts B through D of the Project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance  with  procedures  consistent with those set
forth in Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and  IDA  Credits"  published  by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Items shall be grouped  to  the  greatest  extent as shall be
appropriate to permit bulk procurement.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in West African
Economic Community (WAEC) may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereof.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereof.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of furniture, materials  and  equipment which cannot be
grouped into packages of at  least $200,000 equivalent may be pro-
cured on the basis  of  competitive  bidding advertised locally in
accordance  with   procurement   procedures   acceptable   to  the
Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of  $400,000,  may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on  the  basis  of  comparison  of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Civil works under Parts  B.2  and  B.5  of the Project may be
carried out through force account.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contracts  are  to  be  made  out  of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are  to  be  made  out  of  a  Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
Page  15
copies of the  contract  together  with  the other information re-
quired to be furnished to  the  Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis of statements of  expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  and CUD in carrying out the
Project, consultants shall  be  employed whose qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and  conditions  of  employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "Category"  means  any  of  the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible Categories" means:
          (i)  in respect of Special Account A, Category (1);
         (ii)  in respect  of  Special  Account  B, Categories (3)
               through (9); and
        (iii)  in respect of Special Account C, Category (2);
     (c)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (d)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
          (i)  an amount of CFAF 50 million in the case of Special
               Account A;
         (ii)  an amount  of  CFAF  225  million  in  the  case of
               Special Account B; and
        (iii)  an amount  of  CFAF  300  million  in  the  case of
               Special Account C.
     Such amounts to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
Page  16
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Accounts at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special Accounts  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Accounts  with  amounts  not exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Accounts for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit  into  the  Special Accounts shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be  made  only  after  and  to  the  extent that the
Association shall have been  satisfied  that  all such amounts re-
maining on deposit in the Special  Accounts as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the  Association,  deposit  into  such Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
by the Association into the  Special  Accounts shall be made until
Page  17
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
