Page  1
                       CANADIAN CONTRIBUTION RELATED TO
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 1884 SE
                Contribution Agreement
                        BETWEEN
               THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
                        FOR THE
  MUNICIPAL AND HOUSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (SENEGAL)
                          AND
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               Dated September 14, 1988
                CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT
The Contribution Agreement made in duplicate on this day
of September 14, 1988.
BETWEEN:  The Government of Canada herein represented by
          the Secretary of State for External Affairs,
          acting through the Canadian International
          Development Agency (hereinafter referred to as
          "CIDA"),
AND:      The International Development Association
          (hereinafter referred to as the
          "Association").
WHEREAS the Association is financing a project entitled
the "Municipal and Housing Development Project" in the
Republic of Senegal which includes a municipal management
component and a housing component.
WHEREAS CIDA has informed the Association that it desires
to participate in the Municipal and Housing Development
Project (hereinafter called "Agreement") between the
Association and CIDA is to set out the terms and
conditions concerning the administration of such
contribution and the implementation of the Project;
                       ARTICLE I
Section 1.01
CIDA hereby appoints the Association as Administrator of
a contribution of funds in the amount of two million
seven hundred thirty-two thousand three hundred and forty
United States dollars (US$2,732,340) (hereinafter
referred to as "the Contribution") in the following
manner:
Page  2
a)   upon the entry into force of this Agreement, and
     based on a cash flow forecast for the first month
     of the Project, CIDA shall deposit an amount of one
     hundred thousand United States dollars
     (US$100,000.) in an account maintained with the
     Bank of Canada in the name of the Association
     (hereinafter referred to as the Account).
b)   subsequent advances of up to five hundred thousand
     United States dollars (US$500,000 .) will be made
     by CIDA on a monthly basis conditional upon receipt
     of a cash forecast statement estimating funds
     required for the following month.
C)   no more than two advances will remain outstanding
     at any one time, and at no time shall the total
     amount of the advances available in the Account
     exceed seven hundred eighty thousand United States
     dollars (US$780,000.).
d)   the Association may invest the funds pending their
     disbursement. The income therefore shall be added
     to the Account and thereafter be available for the
     same purpose as said funds. The Association will
     disburse or arrange for the disbursement of such
     funds to pay for goods or services eligible for
     financing and, for this purpose, the Association
     may exchange the funds in the Account for other
     currencies.
Section 1.02
It is understood between CIDA and the Association that a
portion of the Contribution in an amount of twenty-seven
thousand three hundred and twenty-four United States
Dollars (US$27,324.) will be utilized for the
reimbursement of the Project supervision and support
services rendered by the Association. CIDA authorizes the
Association to transfer to itself, as and when needed,
appropriate amounts to reimburse for such activities.
Section 1.03
If unforeseen increases in expenditures or commitments
are expected or realized (whether due to inflationary
factors, fluctuation in exchange rates or unforeseen
contingencies) the Association shall notify CIDA, in
writing, of this fact, and of the estimated amount of the
increases in expenditures or commitments, as soon as
possible. CIDA will consider whether it will agree to
increase its contribution to the Project to cover such
increases in expenditures or commitments.
Section 1.04
Whenever the events described in Section 1.03 of this
Agreement occur, and an additional contribution is not
forthcoming, CIDA and the Association may agree to reduce
the scope of, suspend or terminate this Agreement.
Section 1.05
The personnel to be engaged to perform services required
by the Project shall be Canadian or Senegalese. In the
event that a Senegalese firm is selected, CIDA will need to 
provide its agreement before contract signature with this society.
                      ARTICLE II
Section 2.01
Page  3
The Contribution shall be administered by the Association
for the purpose of meeting the costs of the Project as
set out in Annex A.
Section 2.02
The Association shall disburse from the Account such
amounts as from time to time shall be needed to meet the
reasonable costs of goods and services financed or to be
financed for the purposes of the Project. Such
disbursements shall be effected in accordance with the
Association's normal procedures.
Section 2.03
The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Canada,
shall have the sole responsibility for the supervision of
the Project and shall keep CIDA regularly informed of the
progress of the Project.
Section 2.04
The Association shall exercise the same care in the
discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it
exercises with respect to the administration and
management of its own affairs and shall have no further
responsibility to CIDA in respect thereof.
Section 2.05
The Association shall enter into such arrangements with
the Republic of Senegal as are necessary to ensure the
successful implementation of the Project.
Section 2.06
The Association may open a special account in Dakar.
                      ARTICLE III
Section 3.01
The Association shall:
(a)  maintain separate records and accounts in respect
     of the funds in the Account and those disbursed by
     the Association pursuant to the provisions of this
     Agreement, and the Association shall furnish
     quarterly to CIDA a statement of account on such
     records and accounts; and
(b)  cause such accounts and records to be audited and
     certified by the Association's external auditors
     for each fiscal year that funds shall remain in the
     Account and shall furnish the report of such audit
     by said auditors to CIDA.
                      ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01
This Agreement shall become effective as of the date
first above written and, subject to the provisions of
this Article, shall continue in effect until all
disbursements to Senegal have been made from the Account.
Section 4.02
If at any time it appears to either party that the
purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or
appropriately be carried out, this Agreement may be
terminated at the initiative of such party ninety (90)
Page  4
days after giving notice in writing to that effect.
Section 4.03
If at any time it appears that funds of the Contribution
were not used appropriately for the purposes of the
Project, CIDA may withhold further payments and cancel an
equivalent amount from the Contribution.
Section 4.04
Notwithstanding the termination or completion of this
Agreement, the Association shall continue to hold
unutilized funds of the Contribution until the earlier
of: the satisfaction of all commitments incurred for the
-Project prior to the date of termination or completion
of this Agreement; or the filing of the report required
under Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
Section 4.05
Promptly after termination of this Agreement, the
Association shall furnish to CIDA a final report and a
financial statement on the Account, together with an
opinion of the Association's external auditors on such
statement.
Section 4.06
All unutilized funds of the Contribution shall be
returned by the Association, through CIDA, to the
Receiver General of Canada.
                       ARTICLE V
Section 5.01
This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement
of the parties hereto.
Section 5.02
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have
been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or telex to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other addresses as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For CIDA:
Canadian International Development Agency
200 Promenade du Portage
Hull, Quebec
Canada
KIA OG4
Telex:  053-4140
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Page  5
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
Telex:  440098 (ITT)
       248423 (RCA) or
        64145 (WUI)
                      ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01
This Agreement together with Annex A, which forms an
integral part hereof, constitute the entire Agreement
between CIDA and the Association w3ith respect to the
Project.
                      ARTICLE VII
Section 7.01
No member of the Canadian House of Commons shall be
admitted to any share or part of this Agreement or to any
benefit to arise therefrom.
Section 7.02
This Agreement shall not be assigned by the Association
without the prior consent of CIDA.
Section 7.03
Any payment to be made by CIDA under this Agreement is
subject to there being an appropriation by Parliament for
the fiscal year in which the payment is to be made.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, have signed the
present Agreement in duplicate.
For the GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
/s/ Pierre Racicot
Canadian International
Development Agency
Name   Pierre Racicot
Title  Vice-president
Date   30/06/88
For the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ Michael J. Gillette
Name:   Michael J. Gillette
Title:  Acting Regional Vice President, Africa
Date:   September 14, 1988
                        ANNEX A
              DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The Project
The objectives of the Municipal and Housing Development
Project are to improve the resources and the efficiency
of metropolitan Dakar's local overpayments in policy
Page  6
making related to service delivery and urban investment,
and to expand the economic impact and efficiency of the
housing sector through an expansion of BHS's activities
and through the increased supply of serviced and titled
plots.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives.
Part A:   Municipal Credit Fund
Provision of Sub-Loans to local governments for the
financing of income generating projects.
Part B:   Strengthening CUD's Technical Department
1.   Acquisition of civil work equipment and vehicles
     needed for infrastructure maintenance;
2.   Rehabilitation, including extension and
     remodelling, of buildings of the technical-
     services;
3.   Technical assistance;
4.   Short term and long term training programs for
     selected key staff members; and
5.   Rehabilitation of about 25 schools, 165 public
     latrines, eight health facilities and three
     administrative field offices of CUD.
Part C:   Traffic and Public Transport Management in
Dakar
1.   Technical assistance to the Traffic Bureau (Bureau
     de la Circulation)
2.   Rehabilitation of CUD's main collector roads (68
     km) including:
     (a)   reconstruction of about 33 km of roads;
     (b)   resurfacing of about 28 km of roads; and
     (c)   minor repairs on about 7 km of roads.
3.   Implementation of a traffic management plan in the
     central Dakar area (Plateau), including:
     (a)  repairs and remodeling work on selected street
sections and junctions:
     (b)  installation of street lighting;
     (c)  installation of traffic signals; and
     (d)  establishment of parking lots.
4.   Improvement of key junctions and selected sections
     of the national urban road network in metropolitan
     Dakar, including:
     (a)  road remodeling and repairs;
     (b)  construction of sidewalks;
     (c)  installation of street lightings; and
Page  7
     (d)  installation of traffic signals.
Part D:   Municipal Resource Mobilization
1.   Establishment of a fiscal cadastre for the
     territories of the three communes of the Dakar
     region.
2.   Computerization of the data base of the fiscal
     cadastre and improvement of the computerized
     processing of the tax billing for the territories
     of the three communes of the Dakar region, and
     acquisition of computer equipment and software
     therefor.
Part E:   Housing Component
1.   A program of land development for servicing and
     titling approximately 1,800 plots annually.
2.   A program of housing loans for very low cost, low
     cost and medium standard housing as defined in
     Section 2.01(c) (i) of the BHS Project Agreement.
                   *   *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
II.  The purpose of CIDA's contribution
CIDA's contribution will be utilized to finance the
technical assistance components of the above Project.
Technical assistance will be provided to the Communaute
Urbaine de Dakar (CUD) for strengthening temporarily a
few key positions in CUD's technical department in order
to allow immediate effectiveness of functions which
relate "inter alia" to execution of parts B(l), B(2) and
B(5) of the Project and for on-the-job training of
permanent staff in charge of these function.
Technical assistance will also be provided to the Traffic
Bureau (Bureau de la Circulation). Experts will provide
technical supervision and assistance for implementation
of parts C(2), C(3) and C(4) of the Project.
Technical assistance and consultant services will also be
provided to the Ministry in charge of finance (Direction
du Cadastre) as needed for implementation of part D of
the Project.
III. The Budget
The following allocation of funds is tentative.
a)   Technical Assistance and Consultant Services US$
     -    to CUD's Technical Department
          Engineer                           $  319,800
          Mechanic                           $  280,000
          Technician                         $  240,200
          Sub-Total                          $  840,000
     -    to the Traffic Bureau
          Engineers                          $1,120,000
     -    to the Direction du Cadastre
          Technical assistance               $  167,000
          Consultants                        $   99,800
          Training                           $   99,800
Page  8
          Sub-Total                          $  366,600
     b)   Contingencies
          Physical contingencies             $  190,416
          Price contingencies                $  188,000
          Sub-Total                          $  378,416
     c)   IDA supervision                    $   27,324
          TOTAL                              $2,732,340
