Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1884 SE
            (Municipal and Housing Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                    COMMUNAUTE URBAINE DE DAKAR
                        Dated May 27, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1884 SE
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   May   27,   1988,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association)  and COMMUNAUTE URBAINE
DE DAKAR (CUD).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith  between  Republic  of  Senegal  (the  Borrower)  and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to thirty-two
million   five   hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 32,500,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that CUD
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS CUD, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) CUD  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out Part B of the
Project and shall assist  in  the  carrying  out  of Part C of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative  and  engineering  practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other  resources  required  for Part B of
the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. CUD shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07  and 9.08 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and  reports,  maintenance  and  land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of  the  Project  Agreement  and  Part B of the
Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) CUD shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
     (b)  CUD shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by CUD of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (c)  By October 31 of each year during execution of Parts B.2
and B.5 of  the  Project,  CUD  will  prepare  and  furnish to the
Association an activity report  in  such  scope and such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request on the activities carried
out by the technical services  of  CUD  under Parts B.2 and B.5 of
the Project during the previous fiscal year of CUD.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 3.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of CUD  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date  fifteen  years  after  the  date  of this
               Agreement.
Page  3
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CUD of
this event.
     Section 3.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 4.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For CUD:
          Communautå Urbaine de Dakar
          Rue 22, angle Boulevard du Gånåral de Gaulle
          B.P. 186
          Dakar, Sånågal
     Section 4.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  CUD  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
President of CUD or  such  other  person  or  persons as CUD shall
designate in writing,  and  CUD  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 4.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
Page  4
                                                            Africa
                    COMMUNAUTE URBAINE DE DAKAR
                    By /s/ Falilou Kane
                                        Authorized Representative
