OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT KUNDER 1884 SE
Project Agreement
(Xmuicipal and   o«UMing Development Project)
betveen
INTERNATIONAL DEVELPENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMUNAUTE URBAINE DE DAKAR
Dated                  , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1884 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        A       21988, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSWIATION (the Association) and
COMMUNAUTE URBAINE DE DAKAR (CUD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-two
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 32,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that CUD
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS CUD, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requites, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CUD declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of theProject as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall darry out Part B of the
Project and shall assist in the carrying out of Part C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of
the Project.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Asspciation phall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and coniatants' serviced
required for ,,Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit' shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. CUD shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the Ge-6eral Condi-
tions (relating toi)se of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquiff. ion, respec-
tively) in respect of the Project Agreement and eart B of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) CUD shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) CUD shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by CUD of its obligations under this Agreement.
(c) By October 31 of each year during execution of Parts B.2
and B.5 of the Project, CUD will prepare and furnish to the
Association an activity report in such scope and such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request on the activities carried
out by the technical services of CUD under Parts B.2 and B.5 of
the Project during the previous fi ak year of CUD.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon, which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of CUD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-3,-
(ii)  the date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CUD of
this event.
Section 3.03. All the priovisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as ,uch party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses ,so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CUD:
Communaut6 Urbaine de Dakar
Rue 22, angle 'oulevard du Genral de Gaulle
B.P. 186
Daka, Sdndgal


﻿4
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any docuient reqired or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CUD may be taken or executed by the
President of GUD or suc other person or persons as CUD shall
designate in writing, and CUD shall, furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of "the authority and" the axithenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4,03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but öne instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized tepresentatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            Co(
Regional Vice President
Africa
COLMUNAUTE URBAINE DE DAKAR
By                                 -
Authorized Representative


﻿NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


