             Document of
          The World Bank


                                   Report No: 63644-CI




       RESTRUCTURING PAPER


               ON A


  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING


                 OF


EDUCATION & TRAINING SUPPORT CREDIT


              TO THE


     REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE




           August 16, 2011
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



HIPC                                      Heavily-Indebted Poor Country
IDA                                       International Development Association
OP                                        Operation Policies
PDO                                       Project Development Objectives
UN                                        United Nations
UNICEF                                    United Nations Children’s Fund




         Regional Vice President:   Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                Country Director:   Madani M. Tall
          Acting Sector Manager:    Peter N. Materu
              Task Team Leader:     Hamoud Abdel Wedoud Kamil




                                      2
                                    COTE D'IVOIRE
                             EDUCATION & TRAINING SUPPORT
                                        P035655
                                      CONTENTS

                                                                                                       Page
ANNEX 1: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE ......................................................................... 4




                                                      3
                                       ANNEX 1:
                                Extension of Closing Date

     REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D'IVOIRE — EDUCATION & TRAINING SUPPORT
                         (CR. 3079-CI) – P035655

                                  Restructuring Paper

1.      The closing date for the Côte d'Ivoire “Education and Training Support?, (Cr.
3079-CI, P035655) will be extended from August 31, 2011 until August 31, 2012. The
original credit was in the amount of US$53.3 million and approved on May 29, 1998. The
purpose of this extension request is to: (i) allow for the completion of contracts that have
already been entered into but have not been completed due to delays resulting from the
political situation in the country; (ii) provide much needed education inputs in the post-
crisis environment; and (iii) complete ongoing activities necessary to achieve the Project
Development Objectives (PDO).

2.       In spite of slow disbursement at the onset of implementation, the project has made
considerable progress over the past few years, increasing disbursement from 34 percent
in 2009 to almost 73 percent in July 2011 and is on track to achieve 100 percent
disbursement if granted an extension. Among some of the project’s accomplishments are:
(i) achievement of the “Textbook to Pupil Ratio? in grades 1 – 3; (ii) completion of
primary school curriculum reform; (iii) purchase of the target number of primary school
textbooks; and (iv) reaching the target “Primary Completion Rate?. However, several
activities crucial for attaining the PDO and for providing emergency post-crisis assistance
such as getting children back to schools by completing primary classroom construction
and colleges (and hence affecting Gross Enrollment Rates), and providing much needed
school equipment (such as benches), have not yet been carried out or were put on hold.
Therefore, an extension of the closing date would ensure the completion of those
activities.

3.      Based on a post-crisis assessment of the most urgent needs in the education sector
in line with Project objectives, the government prepared an action plan with activities that
can realistically be achieved between now and August 31, 2012. Activities to be
implemented, which are considered urgent and can be completed, include: (i) finalizing
construction of the remaining 300 classrooms (benefitting approximately 14,400
students) and eight colleges; (ii) acquisition and distribution of 25,000 benches to
primary schools and scientific equipment to all nine colleges; (iii) completing
rehabilitation of two teacher training centers and delivery of pedagogical equipment
(books for libraries etc.) to the 14 existing centers; (iv) vaccination campaigns and
distribution of de-worming tablets and micronutrients (iodine, iron and vitamins) to
children most affected by the crisis; (v) acquisition of food supplies to school canteens;
(vi) acquisition of office equipment for the education administration; and (vii) oversee the
distribution of textbooks.

4.       Agreements with other UN agencies (UNICEF, World Food Program) exist for
the implementation of some of the above-mentioned activities (i.e. health and nutrition
activities) for which they have a comparative advantage. Granting a one-year extension

                                             4
would allow the project to finalize those agreements, strengthen the likelihood of
completing such activities on time and have a positive impact on the achievement of the
PDO. The total value of the envisaged activities to be executed by the various UN
agencies amounts to approximately US$1.4 million. Furthermore, previous delays due to
procurement procedures are not expected to occur during the extension since the
government’s team has either already undertaken the necessary steps to re-start
procurement activities (i.e. amendments to contractors for civil works) or prepared the
draft procurement documents for the remaining activities (technical specifications for
equipment etc.).

5.       Progress towards achieving the PDO are evidenced as follows:

                        Project Development Objective Indicators
 Indicator Name               Baseline                  Current                    End Target
                           June 30, 2008              July 4, 2011              August 31, 2012
Gross Enrollment        71% (data for school   77% (No new data avail.        80% (expected for end
Rate in 1st grade       year 2007/08)          due resumption of activities   of school year 2011/12)
                                               less than 2 months ago)
Gross Enrollment        74% (data for school   78% (No new data avail.        82% (expected for end
Rate in primary         year 2007/08)          due resumption of activities   of school year 2011/12)
                                               less than 2 months ago).
Primary Completion      46% (data for school   51% (Target exceeded; no       50% (expected for end
Rate                    year 2007/08)          new data avail.)               of school year 2011/12)
Repetition Rate (%      22% (data for school   18.80% (Target exceeded;       14% (expected for end
children repeating in   year 2007/08)          no new data avail.)            of school year 2011/12)
the beginning of a
school year)


6.      The extension of the closing date would also support progress toward meeting the
HIPC completion point related to textbooks, namely that “90 percent of the students
enrolled in all public primary schools have received three textbooks covering French,
mathematics, and civic education, during at least the school year immediately preceding
the completion point?. The government had purchased textbooks covering French,
mathematics and civic education which it intends to distribute for free to students
enrolled in public primary schools. However, only 30 percent of these textbooks could be
distributed while the rest had to be stored in a warehouse due to the crisis. The extension
would hence allow the project to oversee the distribution of these remaining textbooks
and support attaining the HIPC completion point.

7.      To ensure on-time completion, the team proposes to continue close supervision in
the same manner which helped accelerate implementation since 2009. This entails regular
full supervision missions as well as interim support missions by the team leader on the
ground to monitor progress and ensure quality. The team would also use the extension
period to take stock of the status of project outcomes by deepening analysis of the data,
which will be helpful in anticipation of preparing the Implementation Completion and
Results report. The burden on the Bank’s administrative budget is expected to be low due
to the fact that the task team leader and other core team members such as the procurement

                                                5
and financial management specialist are based in-country, and that some of the same
team members also work on other operations in the country and can thus distribute the
cost of mission travel.

8.      The extension of the closing date satisfies OP 13.30, paragraph 3 on Closing
Dates. The OP requires that (i) the project objectives continue to be achievable; (ii) the
performance of the Recipient and other project implementing agencies to be satisfactory;
and (iii) the Recipient prepare a specific action plan acceptable to IDA to complete the
remaining activities under the project.

9.     This will be the fifth and final extension and will result in a cumulative extension
of nine years and eight months from the project’s original closing date, requiring
Regional Vice President approval in accordance with OP 13.30, paragraph 7.




                                            6
