Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICLAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13066
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT
FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT (PHASE I)
(LOAN 2386-aY)
MAY 17, 1994
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE I)
(LN 2386-CY)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00    -       0.50 CC (at appraisal in 1983)
US$ 1.00    -       0.40 C£ (1992 for PCR)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CM                Cubic Meter
CY                Calendar Year
DA                Department of Agriculture
EIB               European Investment Bank
ECU               European Currency Unit
FAO/CP            FAO/WB Cooperative Programme
FEEAP             Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan, 1982 - 1986
GOC               Government of Cyprus
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
KA                Kokkinokhoria Aquifer
KIA               Kokkinokhoria Irrigation Area
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
M&EU              Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
x                 Million
MANR              Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCM/A             Million Cubic Meters per Annum
mm                Millimeter
NWE               National Water Entity
ODA               Overseas Development Administration (UK)
O0M               Operation and Maintenance
PCR               Project Completion Report
PPCC              Project Policy and Coordination Committee
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SCP               Southern Conveyor Project, Phase 1 and Phase 2
SCP I             Southern Conveyor Project, Phase 1
SCP II            Southern Conveyor Project, Phase 2
TCCS              Telemetry and Central Control System
UNDP              United Nations' Development Programme
VPP               Vasilikos-Pendoskinos Irrigation Project
WDD               Water Development Department



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                     May 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cyprus
Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development
(Phase I) (Ln. 2386-CY)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Cyprus - Southern Conveyor
Project for Water Resources Development (Loan 2386-CY). Parts I and III were prepared by
the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. The Borrower prepared Part II.
The project was the first of a two-phase development project intended to increase
and integrate the supply of scarce water resources in southern Cyprus, and to increase the
capacity of the Borrower to allocate surface water between aquifer recharge and competing urban
and irrigation demands.
The Borrower's strong and early commitment and the Bank's close supervision of
the infrastructural components contributed to the project achieving or exceeding nearly all
physical objectives. The full economic effects of this project depend critically on the completion
of the second phase project (Loan 2914-CY) which is currently underway and on schedule. The
ERR for Phase I was reestimated at 12 percent and the outcome of the project is judged
satisfactory.
However, an M&E unit was created only just before completion, and the agreed
National Water Entity has not been established. Thus, institutional development is rated
negligible. But the Government, with Bank support, is undertaking a Water Master Plan Study,
which is readdressing the institutional arrangements for longer-term water resource management
and sustainability is considered likely.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation.
Since the Closing Date for the Phase II project is in 1995, no separate audit of Phase I is planned
at this time.
Robert Picciotto
by Hans-Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE I)
(LOAN 2386-CY)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS/GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR/ABBREVIATIONS
PREFACE    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .     .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . ... .      .    ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .        1
1.  Project Identity  ............               ............
2.  Background  ............................
3.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
4. Project Design and Organization         ..                                  4
5. Project Implementation..                                                    5
6. Project Results..                                                           6
7. Sustainability..                                                            8
8. Bank Performance..                                                          9
9.  Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
10. Project Relationship  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  10
11. Consulting Services ..........              ............11
12. Project Documentation and Data  .......            .........11
13. Main Lessons To Be Learned  ........             ..........11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .    13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1.  Related Bank Loans  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    15
2.  ProJect Timetable ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16
3.  Loan Disbursements  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    17
4.  Project Implementation  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    18
5.  Project Costs and Financing ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    19
6.  Project Results ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    21
7.  Status of Legal Covenants ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    23
8. Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
ANNEX 1 - TABLES
1. Cropped Area Inside SCP Area (Kokkinokhoria)
2. Kokkinokhoria Project Area: Gross Value of Production in Economic Terms
3. Economic Price of Potatoes
4. Economic Prices - Oranges and Wheat
5. Consumer Prices Index and Inflators
6. Production Cost per ha of Major Crops in Kokkinokhoria
7. Net Value of Production in Economic Terms - Kokkinokhoria Project Area
8. Estimated Economic Net Return for Cereals (Wheat/Barley)
9. Annual Water Supply from SCP
10. Total Project Costs - Phase I - Actual and Projected
11. Total Project Costs - Phase II - Actual and Projected
12. Total Project Costs - SCP - Phase I
13. Economic Rate of Return
Map - IBRD No. 20379R



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE I)
(LN 2386-CY)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Southern
Conveyor Project, Phase I, in the Republic of Cyprus, for which an IBRD
loan (LN 2386-CY) in the amount of US$27.0 M was approved on March 6,
1984. The project total cost was estimated at US$202.3 M, the balance of
which was financed by EIB (US$28.0 M), Kuwait Fund (US$10.0 M), COC
(US$69.3  M)  and  export  credits  (US$68.0  M).    Actual  World  Bank
disbursements amounted to US$24.5 M or 91% of SAR estimate. The balance
of US$ 2.5 M was cancelled.  The loan closed on December 31, 1991, one
year after the original loan closing date. Information on disbursement
and the component(s) financed with various loans is given in para 5.8 of
Part I.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division
(EClAG) of the Europe and Central Asia Region and the FAO/CP.   The
Borrower provided a preliminary draft of the PCR and comments on the
earlier draft of the PCR. These comments have been taken into account in
preparation of this final version.
The joint Bank and FAO/CP mission visited Cyprus in September 1992.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on a review of the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement dated April 11, 1984, the Bank's
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and
Progress Reports by the Borrower.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE I)
(LOAN 2386-CY)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.       Introduction.  This PCR has been prepared for the first Rhase (SCP I)
of the Southern Conveyor Prolect (SCP). SCP second Rhase (SCP II), which is
closely linked to SCP I, is under implementation. In the circumstances, the full
impact of the project can not be assessed now.   However,  considering the
importance of applying possible lessons from SCP I to the ongoing SCP II, and
that SCP I was handled as a separate project, this PCR has been prepared with the
understanding that its major findings will be taken into account in the
preparation of the PCR for SCP II.
Background
2.       Cyprus has limited water resources, particularly in the eastern part.
At the time of preparation of SCP in the 1980's, the Kouris and Diarizos rivers
in the western part of the island had some extra water that was flowing to the
sea. Most of the country's groundwater resources were developed and groundwater
aquifers, particularly the Kokkinokhoria aquifer (KA), were overpumped.   The
ground-water aquifers and water users were being affected by sea water intrusion.
Demand for domestic and irrigation water was growing rapidly.    Cyprus has a
Mediterranean climate, which is favorable for the production of high quality,
early and off-season horticultural crops for export. Although irrigated crops
occupy only 10X of the agricultural area, they generate some 80X of crop
production value. Due to the inadequacy and unreliability of rainfall, irrigation
is essential for intensive crop production. In the early 1980's, strong demand
existed for domestic (mainly in the large cities located in the south and east
and the rapidly growing tourism industry) and irrigation water. To meet this
demand, GOC initiated a study in 1978 to identify a suitable project to develop
its water resources.   The focus of the study was to identify mechanisms to
regulate the unused water in the west and convey it to the east.  This study
presented a comprehensive project, called The Southern Conveyor Project (SCP).
GOC and the Bank carefully reviewed it and, in view of its complexity, large
funding requirement and lengthy completion period, decided to split it into two
phases.  The Bank appraised the first phase project, SCP I, in 1983/1984 and
approved it on March 6, 1984.
Proiect Obiectives
3.       The project's main objectives were threefold:  (i) to secure safe
domestic water until at least the year 2010; (ii) to provide irrigation water to
maintain agricultural production threatened by sea water intrusion in aquifers



- iv -
and irrigate new lands; and (iii) to implement required policies and
institutional measures to improve overall cost recovery, and enhance efficient
use of water. The SCP I main components were: Kouris dam and reservoir (115 MCM);
main conveyor (110 km pipeline), to connect the above reservoir with the demand
centers in the south and east; Akhna terminal reservoir (5.8 MCM); pressurized
irrigation distribution network for 5,125 ha; domestic water supply works; and
a telemetry and central control system (TCCS). The project cost was estimated
at CflOl.13 M (US$202.26 M), of which, US$27 M was to be financed by the Bank and
the rest by EIB, Kuwait Fund, Suppliers' Credit and GOC.
4.        Implementation Experience
4.1       The project was well prepared and designed through close cooperation
between WDD staff and consultants. Project implementation was carried out in a
flexible manner and designs were amended as required. The project concept and
phasing was clear to all concerned and supported by them. Project design also
provided for improved utilization of KA and measures to slow salt water
intrusion.   DA staff participated in project preparation and provided good
research and extension support.   However,  the project design did not have
adequate provision for the agricultural component.
4.2       With the participation of consultants, WDD successfully implemented the
project, and completed the main works (Kouris dam, conveyor, and Akhna Reservoir)
for storage and conveyance of water six to eight months ahead of the SAR
schedule, with good quality works and under SAR cost estimates.   The main
variation in the project consisted of an increase of about 90Z in the irrigation
network. The main reasons for this expansion were to permit crop rotations and
improve land fertility and accommodate more Greek Cypriot refugees from the
North. In view of overall cost savings, the above expansion of the KIA network
did not increase the total cost of the project beyond the original estimate (see
para 5.8 of main report.) The project started in 1984; most works were completed
in 1990. The Bank loan was closed in December 1991, one year after the original
loan closing date. The relatively small remaining works are to be completed in
the second quarter of CY 1994.   Extensive delays occurred with regard to
completion of TCCS and establishment of the National Water Entity (NWE) and the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&EU).
4.3       Thirty five packages of equipment and materials and six construction
works packages were procured through ICB; nine construction works (irrigation
networks and two pumping stations) were completed through force account by WDD.
With minor exceptions, the procurement took place in a satisfactory manner.
Despite inclusion of a large quantity of additional works (irrigation networks,
etc., costing about US$ 19 M), the project final cost is expected to be close to
the original estimate.
5.        Project Results
5.1      A substantial volume of incremental water (an increase of about 100 MCM
from 1988-1992) became available for domestic and industrial, and irrigation
requirements; sea water intrusion into KA has lessened and the decline in
irrigated area and agricultural production has been arrested.   The GOC has



-v -
improved cost recovery; the planned land consolidation was completed; the 250
inhabitants of the Khalassa Village, inundated by the Kouris reservoir, were
resettled satisfactorily.   Through 1990,  SCP I helped meet irrigation and
domestic water requirements. However, in 1991, a very dry year preceded by a
relatively low flow year, the system was not able to meet all requirements. SCP
II got off to a good start.
5.2      Economic Rate of Return.  It is too early to evaluate the full impact
of the project as a whole. SCP Phase 2 is still under implementation and the
development of one irrigation area (Athienou -- 451 ha) under SCP I is not yet
completed.    The  economic  data  regarding  the  main  irrigation  area  of
Kokkinokhoria, as provided by DA and the Potato Marketing Board (PMB), are
tentative. Based on the available data, the economic rate of return for SCP I
has been reassessed at 12%, as compared with the SAR estimate of 10.5%
6.        Sustainabilit .   Project sustainability may be defined in terms of
physical works constructed, economic activity supported and institutions created.
Civil works were designed and constructed on a sound technical basis.   Key
installations have been monitored and are being adequately maintained. Prospects
are good that these installations will continue to serve as designed through a
normal life span. In terms of future economic activity, the expected continued
growth in water demand for domestic use--in part, the result of the rapid growth
of tourism--is likely to increasingly restrict supplies available for irrigation.
Cropping patterns and agriculture's role in the economy are likely to change in
a manner not anticipated at appraisal. In terms of institutions, good progress
has been made in creating administrative mechanisms to facilitate adequate
recovery of operation and maintenance costs of providing water to both domestic
users and agriculture. Because the NWE has not been established, the project's
contribution to resolving longer-term water management issues is likely to be
less than expected during preparation.
7.       Findinas and Lessons Learned.  This project, SCP I, has made a major
contribution to objectives of the more comprehensive, Southern Conveyor Project.
The success of SCP I is due in part to the early and comprehensive planning for
the integrated development of available water resources, with a particular focus
on making more effective use of limited water among competing demands. Strong
commitment by the borrower, active involvement by its technical agencies and
close supervision by the Bank were important contributors to the satisfactory
outcome.   Delays in establishing the NWE and the M&EU impacted adversely on
project management and complicated measurement of impact. The Bank should have
emphasized more strongly the importance of early establishment of these entities.
Where high-value crops are produced, expensive irrigation conveyance and
distribution systems to ensure high system efficiency can be economically-viable.
There is need to take action on recommendations in the environmental study for
the Akrotiri Salt Lake. Limited water relative to potential demand will continue
to influence economic activity in the project area, making it important to
examine carefully the economics of competing water uses, particularly with
respect to the remaining irrigable area, planned to be equipped with irrigation
network.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT (PHASE I)
(LOAN 2386-CY)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name:     Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development (Phase I)
Loan No.:          2386-CY
RVP Unit:          Europe and Central Asian Region (EClAG)
Country:          Cyprus
Sector:           Agriculture and Water Supply
Sub-sector:       Irrigation and Water Supply
2. Back2round
2.1      Water Resources.  The average precipitation, varying from 290 mm in the
west to 1,190 mm in the central mountainous region, results in an estimated
runoff of 600 MCM/A.   Until 1984IL about 175 MCM/A of the above runoff was
utilized for irrigation and domestic use, and the balance was flowing to the set.
The total water storage capacity was 171 MCM/A, with an average yield of about
115 MCM/A. Most groundwater resources were fully developed and aquifers were
overpumped. The most important aquifer of Cyprus is the Kokkinokhoria Aquifer
(KA), which is located under about 18,000 ha between Larnaca and Famagusta. The
groundwater abstraction started from KA in 1960 on a commercial scale and the
aquifer became rapidly overexploited.   From 1965 to 1991, the water table
declined 12 m on average, while in some areas the drop exceeded 40 m, resulting
in sea water intrusion around the coastal fringe. In 1962, the annual exploited
volume reached about 35 MCM to irrigate approximately 10,000 ha. Between 1978
and 1986, the number of wells/boreholes increased from 2,400 to 4,500 units and
pumped about 25 MCM of water annually.   During this period, water quality
deteriorated and, with increased lift, pumping costs increased.
2.2      Water resource development and the supply of water for agricultural and
urban use is the responsibility of the Water Development Department (WDD) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). Drinking water quality
standards are established and monitored by the Ministry of Health.   Sewage
quality standards are regulated by the Sewerage and Drainage Law of 1971 and its
subsequent  amendments.      The  Ministry  of  Interior  is  responsible  for
implementation of this legislation.
AL Year of Board approval.



- 2 -
2.3      The Domestic Water Supply Sector.  Each city is responsible for water
supply and distribution and handling sewage within its corporate municipal
boundaries.   In some cases, this responsibility extends to contiguous areas.
These services are provided in major cities through separate Water Boards and
Sewerage and Drainage Boards. The Water Boards, which include representatives
from the central Government, function fairly independently, but their budget and
tariff increases are subject to approval by the Council of Ministers. Sewerage
Boards have been established in Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca, and function in
a similar way to the Water Boards. Distribution of water supply in rural areas
is the responsibility of local communities, administered through village
councils.
2.4      The progressive tariff structure, adopted by the Water Boards, supports
Government policies. These policies are aimed at ensuring affordability for the
less affluent domestic consumers, while creating incentive for water conservation
among large domestic (including tourism-related facilities), administrative, and
industrial users.  The large consumers' use of water represents about 40% of
total consumption.
2.5      The Agricultural Sector.   Cyprus has a Mediterranean climate which
provides favorable conditions for the production of high quality, early and off-
season, horticultural crops for export.  The total land arealL is 925,000 ha,
of which 424,000 ha are suitable for cropped agriculture. Dryland field crops
(mainly barley) occupied some 380,000 ha. About 44,000 ha are under controlled
irrigation for horticultural crops, mainly citrus, vegetables, potatoes, grapes,
and deciduous  fruits.    Although  irrigated crops  occupy only  10% of the
agricultural land area, they generate some 80% of the crop production value. In
view of the inadequacy and unreliability of rainfall, irrigation is essential for
intensive crop production. Relatively small farm size and fragmentation poses
problems for mechanization.
2.6      Policy and Economic Context.  At the time of project formulation, the
Government of Cyprus (GOC) considered agricultural development as one of its
priority activities. In 1985, agriculture contributed 8.2% of GDP, provided 20%
of total employment, and directly and indirectly accounted for about 28% of
export  earnings.   Government  agricultural  policies under  its first three
Emergency Economic Action Plans were aimed primarily at the completion of ongoing
agricultural projects and expansion of irrigated areas. In an effort to increase
production, improve income levels and balance regional growth, the Fourth
Emergency Economic Action Plan (FEEAP), 1982-86, was committed to: (i) expand
irrigation; (ii) modernize the sector; (iii) improve the marketing system, and
IL These SAR figures relate to areas of the undivided island. The 1991 figures
for the Republic of Cyprus indicate: 208,000 ha of agricultural land of which
37,000 ha are irrigated (Source: Agr. Statistics 1991, MOF).



(iv) reduce price intervention and subsidies.   The FEEAP included steps to
increase irrigation water supply, continue efforts to halt further land
fragmentation and develop agricultural exports to markets in Europe and the
Middle East.
2.7      Linkages Between The Project. Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives.  The
harnessing of surface water resources and extension of irrigated agriculture are
part of the GOC strategy to increase agricultural production and promote exports.
Water resources are the sector's most limiting physical factor. In addition to
augmenting water supplies, the Bank's involvement also aimed at promoting
productive employment and achieving a more equal distribution of economic growth
(both intersectoral and regional). Several other Bank-supported projects had
been implemented earlier to develop water resources to supply water for domestic
use and foster increased agricultural production and exports (see Part III, Table
1). Water resource development and irrigation projects were complemented by
other agricultural projects, including the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project.
2.8      Planning for Water Resources Development.  In the mid 1980's the demand
for domestic water and irrigation in the main consumption centers (located in the
south and east of the country) was projected to increase from about 5 MCM in 1988
to 67 MCM in 2010. To meet such demand, GOC with ODA assistance initiated the
preparation of a project for development of the last substantial exploited water
resources of the country in March 1978.   This study led to completion of a
feasibility study in July 1982, appraisal by the Bank for the first phase of the
Southern Conveyor project (SCP I) in April 1983 and the Bank's approval of a loan
of US$27 M in June 1984. To ensure uninterrupted development, the second phase
project (SCP II), financed by the Bank and other donors, started in 1988.
3. Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.1      The main objectives of SCP (including both Phase 1 and 2), were to: (a)
secure a safe domestic water supply until at least the year 2010 for the four
major urban population centers  (Nicosia,  Limassol, Larnaca,  and Famagusta,
including the Turkish Cypriot areas in Nicosia and Famagusta);  (b) provide
irrigation water to maintain agricultural production threatened by sea water
intrusion in KA and to expand irrigated agriculture in four new areas along the
southern coast of the island, totalling about 3,000 ha gross; and (c) implement
appropriate policies to improve overall cost recovery, increase revenues and to
enhance efficient use of both domestic and irrigation water.
3.2      SCP Components.  Components of both Phase I and II (see attached map)
were: (a) Kouris reservoir, with a gross capacity of 115 MCM behind the 103 m
high earthfill Kouris dam; (b) the main conveyor, a 110 km long ductile iron
pipeline, ranging in diameter from 1,400 mm to 600 mm, running from Kouris
reservoir in the west to Akhna reservoir in the east, including connection with
the existing Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (VPP) irrigation system; (c) Akhna
terminal reservoir, with a gross capacity of 5.8 MCM behind the 16 m high Akhna
dam; (d) Dhiarizos diversion, to convey water from Dhiarizos river through a 16



- 4 -
km long, pressurized pipeline and tunnel to the Kouris reservoir; (e) tertiary
sewage treatment plant at Limassol, as a source of additional water for
irrigation; (f) pressurized irrigation distribution network on 8,125 ha (extended
later to a total of 14,000 ha); (g) domestic vater supply works for urban and
rural areas, consisting of water treatment works, river aquifer development,
pumping stations, transmission mains, and storage tanks; (h) a telemetry and
central control system, operated jointly with VPP; (i) improved project
administration and facilities, including buildings, equipment, and workshops; and
(j) a study to determine the appropriate structure and functions of a National
Water Entity (NWE).
3.3      SCP I Components.  In view of technical and cost considerations, SCP was
to be implemented in two phases. SCP I, planned to be completed in six years
(1984-89), included the following components described in para 3.2 above: (a);
(b); (c); (h); (i); (j); a large part of item (f) covering a gross area of 5,125
(later increased to 9,275) ha; part of (g) covering development of the Yermasoyia
and Tremithios riverbed aquifers, and extension of Khirokitia water treatment
works and village water supply for a rural population of about 100,000. Also
included in SCP I was construction of a 2 km connecting pipeline from the main
conveyor to VPP. The remaining works were to be completed under SCP II.
3.4      Proiect Costs and Financing.  At appraisal in 1983, the project cost was
estimated at C£101.13 M (US$202.26 M) to be financed from: Government - C£34.6
M (US$69.3 M); World Bank - C£13.5 M (US$27.0 M); European Investment Bank (EIB)
- C£14.0 M (US$28.0 M); Kuwait Fund - C£5.0 M (US$10.0 M) and Suppliers' Credit -
CC34.0 M (US$68.0 M).
4. Proiect Design and Organization
4.1      Following the detailed review by GOC and the Bank of SCP, a satisfactory
overall design emerged for SCP I. The project design principles were clear to
all concerned and supported by them. The decision to split the project in to two
components was sound and contributed to successful implementation. The project
design staff from WDD, along with their consultants, successfully completed
detailed designs and related additional investigations and studies. During
implementation changes in the design were incorporated to increase cost-
effectiveness and efficiency. To effectively utilize the momentum created under
Phase 1, the Government and the Bank agreed during negotiations that SCP II
should be started in 1988, i.e., before the planned completion of SCP I.
4.2      The project design provided for improved utilization of KA water and
prevention of further deterioration. The arrangements included for this purpose
were to supply, from the conveyor, 17 MCM/A of water to KIA for irrigation and
11.0 MCM/A for recharging the aquifer.  Provision was also made to carry out
required engineering investigations to assess the aquifer recharge.
4.3      The project design adequately emphasized the engineering aspects of the
project. It did not, however, cover the agricultural component in sufficient
detail to clearly indicate reference marks to facilitate monitoring of the pace
of the agricultural development and taking corrective measures.



-5-
5. Project Implementation
5.1      The project was implemented with active participation of consultants and
WDD and DA staff. The consultants assisted in preparing the bidding and contract
documents and managing the contracts. Responsibilities of the main implementing
agencies were clearly defined and agency participation in the implementation of
the project took place largely as expected.   The DA staff, who actively
participated in the preparation of the project, provided necessary research and
extension support. Establishment of the Project Policy Coordination Committee
(PPCC) proved instrumental in coordinating project activities among the numerous
institutions involved and helped in implementing the project.
5.2      During the implementation of Phase 1, several variations from the
original design took place: (a) extension of KIA from 5,125 ha to 9,275 ha,
thereby utilizing the 17 MCM water allocated for KIA from the conveyor system and
from groundwater; (b) construction of an additional pumping station at the foot
of the Kouris dam, to exploit the reservoir dead storage volume (15 MCM) in
drought periods!L; (c) provision of the tertiary network in KIA, initially
planned to be financed by the farmers; (d) development of an additional
irrigation area at Athienou (451 ha) supplied by the main conveyor; and (e)
increases in scope and capability of the central project control system.
5.3      WDD completed successfully and under budget the project main works
(Kouris dam, conveyor, and Akhna Reservoir) 6 to 10 months ahead of schedule.
This permitted storage and use of water ahead of schedule. On the other hand,
completion of the KIA system required a longer period than originally planned,
mainly because the scope was increased from 5,120 ha to 9,275 ha.  However,
establishment of the TCCS and the proposed NWE and M&EU were substantially
delayed (see para 9.3).
5.4      The project completed most procurement  through ICB,  involving 35
contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials and six contracts for
works. Seven consultancy service contracts were signed with international firms.
Nine construction works, consisting mainly of irrigation networks and two pumping
stations, were implemented through force account by WDD.
5.5      In general, the civil works contractors performed satisfactorily and the
quality of works was of a very good standard.   Most contractors experienced
delays in the early stages due to land acquisition problems and difficulties in
recruiting suitable skilled labor.
5.6      All major supply contracts, involving pipes and fittings, valves and
flowmeters, were awarded to foreign contractors. Their performance was generally
satisfactory.   Minor supply contracts were generally awarded locally.   The
performance of the pumping plant contractor for the KIA, however, was
L This was decided in May 1987 on the basis of three years' siltation study,
which showed lesser silt than previously estimated.



- 6 -
disappointing and resulted in considerable delay. In view of the manufacturing
capacity then available in the country, the level of local participation in
supplying  equipment  and materials  is  considered  reasonable.    A valuable
contribution was made to project completion by the direct labor organization of
the WDD (Force Account).   This arrangement allowed required flexibility in a
situation where pipe alignment had to be frequently modified to suit the local
conditions.
5.7      The project started in 1984; the works included in the SAR were mostly
completed in 1990. The Bank loan was closed in December 1991, one year after the
loan original closing date.   The remaining works of KIA are scheduled to be
completed in the first quarter of CY 1993, and the Athienou irrigation works and
TCCS are to be completed by mid-1994.
5.8      The total cost of the project until completion in 1994 is estimated
C£94.81 M (US$256.03 M), compared to the SAR estimate of Cf 101.13 M (US$202.26
M).   This total cost includes the cost of the following additional works:
expansion of KIA by about 80% and inclusion of farm roads; Atheinou Irrigation
Scheme; and Khalassa Village Relocation. The cost of these additional items is
about C£8.5 M (US$21.2 M).  Out of US$27 M of IBRD loan, US$2.5 M were cancelled.
Total disbursement (actual and estimated) of various loans until completion of
SCP I (in 1994), and the components financed, are: IBRD US$24.5 M for Kouris and
Akhna dams and material and equipment for KIA; EIB ECU30.20 M for Kouris dam;
Kuwait Fund KD2.94 M for KIA network and telemetry; Consortium of French Banks
DM 80.43 M for materials for the conveyor; and Chartered West LB Limited, UK
Stgfl.97 M for KIA pumping plant.
6. Proiect Results
6.1      SCP I has made a major contribution to meeting the overall objective of
the Southern Conveyor Project.   The major results from SCP I are:  (a) water
storage capacity in Cyprus has been increased by about 70%, with a significant
quantity of water (about 100 MCM from 1988-92) became available to meet domestic,
industrial and irrigation requirements; (b) with the above availability of
irrigation water, combined with efficient measures by the Government to control
pumping from KA, sea water intrusion into KA has lessened and declines in the
irrigated area have been reversed; and (c) the Government improved cost recovery
for irrigation and domestic uses through higher water charges (see para. 9.2) and
contributed to more efficient use of water by the rate increase, by installing
irrigation networks based on the use of advanced technology, and by providing
advice on efficient use of water to the farmers through extension organization.
However, adequate progress has not been made in establishing NWE.
6.2      Through  1990,  SCP  I was  able  to  meet  irrigation  and  domestic
requirements satisfactorily.   However,  in 1991, which was a very dry year
preceded by a relatively low flow year, the Kouris storage fell to a low level.
This resulted in availability of only 2.5 MCM/A to KIA (instead of the targeted
17 MCM/A). Therefore, the farmers had to use more groundwater than planned.



6.3      Land consolidation in the designated part (23% of the area) of KIA and
the whole area of Athienou irrigation scheme  (451 ha) was completed.   The
relocation of 250 inhabitants of the Khalassa Village, inundated by the Kouris
reservoir, was completed in a satisfactory manners. The Government constructed
for them 60 new houses, an elementary school, a church, a trade center, a sewage
system, sheds in livestock areas and new access roads.
6.4      Economic Rate of Return.   It is too early to evaluate the economic
impact of the project as a whole. SCP Phase 2 is still under implementation and
development of the Athienou are (under SCP I) is not yet complete. Economic data
regarding the Kokkinokhoria area, as provided by DA and the Potato Marketing
Board (PMB), are tentative and have not been verified by the recently-established
M&EU for the project. In view of the above, the economic re-evaluation of the
project for the purpose of this PCR incorporates some values used at appraisal,
adequately adjusted to reflect 1992 prices. The assumptions used in the analysis
are presented in Annex 1 to Part III. The economic rates of return for SCP I,
SCP II and SCP as a whole have been re-assessed at 12%, 17% and 13%,
respectively. Results are best interpreted as indicative. The ex-post economic
evaluation of the project assumes that, in the absence of alternative water
supplies to the Kokkinokhoria area, pumping from existing private boreholes would
have been inevitable, and would have resulted in severe seawater intrusion.
Hence, the without project situation would have witnessed a rapid regression from
irrigated to rainfed agriculture.
6.5       With regard to domestic water supply, it is estimated that at full
development the SCP would distribute some 32 MCM per annum.   Its value in
economic terms has been assessed at Cf0.6/CM, which has been assumed reflect the
consumers' future willingness to pay for domestic water. This assumption is in
line with the cost of water when considering desalinization as the next best
alternative source of domestic water. The cost of desalinized water for domestic
use recently offered by some bidders to the Government was C£O.6 to 0.7/CM
(US$1.5-1.75/CM).
6.6      Water Quality.  The chemical quality of Kouris Reservoir's water has
been quite stable throughout the years and varies within narrow limits.  The
maximum permissible values for each parameter, as suggested by EEC and WHO, for
potable water (treated) are satisfied even by untreated water. The slightly high
pH values obtained sometimes can be easily adjusted by treatment of such water.
Additional features of this water are: (a) the bacteriological load is low and
can be dealt with by chlorination; (b) it is non-corrosive and has a slight
tendency to scale formation (i.e. positive Langelier Index); (c) the organic load
is low compared to the values suggested as maximum acceptable limits by WHO for
potable water; (d) although it has been declining, the total pesticide content
is high and requires considerable treatment which has been envisaged under the
project water treatment plants (Limassol and Tersefanou); (e) concentration of
asbestos fibers varies with the season and the location of sampling of untreated
river water, but its content after Khirokitia Water Treatment Works is far below
the limit of 71 x 106 fibers per liter, recommended as the maximum acceptable
limit in potable water by EPA.



- 8 -
6.7      Environmental Impact.   The study of the environmental effect of the
project was recently completed under SCP II. The main conclusions are: (a) the
construction of the Kouris Dam changed the flow regime in the Lower Kouris River
and reduced the natural recharge of the Kouris Delta Aquifer and its yield; (b)
the function of the Salt Lake, as a breading area for micro-organisms will not
be seriously affected by the above change, but monitoring of salinity and water
levels in the Lake should be intensified to better understand its future
performance; (c) in years of inadequate rainfall proposed remedial measures would
provide for the flooding of important breeding areas of bird fauna in Phasouri
marches; (d) measures are also proposed for the protection of ecosystems in the
Dhiarizos and Ezousa Rivers; and (e) the study has confirmed the unique
ecological value of the Salt Lake and the surrounding marshes and identified a
series of physical and administrative measures for its protection.
7. Sustainability
7.1      Sustainability.   Project sustainability may be defined in terms of
physical works constructed, economic activity supported and institutions created.
Civil works were designed and constructed on a sound technical basis.   Key
installations have been monitored and are being adequately maintained. Prospects
are good that these installations will continue to serve as designed through a
normal life span. In terms of future economic activity, the expected continued
growth in water demand for domestic use--in part, the result of the rapid growth
of tourism--is likely to increasingly restrict supplies available for irrigation.
Cropping patterns and agriculture's role in the economy are likely to change in
a manner not anticipated at appraisal. In terms of institutions, good progress
has been made in creating administrative mechanisms to facilitate adequate
recovery of operation and maintenance costs of providing water to both domestic
users and agriculture. Because the NWE has not been established, the project's
contribution to resolving longer-term water management issues is likely to be
less than expected during preparation.
7.2      Sustainability of project activity depends to a large extent on the
economically optimum use of the scarce water resources. Several considerations
apply: (a) there is a large and growing demand for domestic/industrial and
irrigation water; (b) SCP I, supplemented by SCP II, is considered to provide the
least cost solution to meet the above demand; (c) the project is designed and
constructed on a sound technical and economic basis; (d) the engineering
performance of the project structures and their operation and maintenance is
satisfactory (see para 7.4); (e) the government is committed to provision of
reasonable levels of O&M expenditure; and (f) the users have progressively shared
a growing part of the investment and O&M cost (now 100% for domestic use and 34%
for irrigation water (see para. 9.2)).
7.3      In light of rapid tourism development, some shift in demand from the
irrigation to domestic use of water is expected. Such a change is expected to
take place in a gradual manner, but, if managed carefully, is consistent with the
project's main objective of meeting future total demand for water at reasonable
prices.



7.4      The engineering works are performing well and are properly maintained.
Over the past years the Kouris dam has been regularly inspected by an inter-
national panel of experts.   Additional groutings on the dam left bank have
reduced seepage  to an acceptable rate.   These maintenance  and monitoring
activities are expected to continue to ensure the structure's stability and
effective use.
7.5      The project's economic viability would be jeopardized if the price of
water from an alternative source such as desalinization declines substantially
from the current level.
S. Bank Performance
8.1       Before supporting the current design and phasing of SCP during the
project appraisal, the Bank carefully examined all reasonable alternatives to
provide the required water.  The Bank adopted a flexible attitude to project
design and agreed to required changes proposed during implementation by the
Borrower.
8.2        The Bank played a constructive role in emphasizing to the Government
the importance of adequate cost recovery, and has contributed to the timely start
up  of  SCP  II.    The  project  was  supervised with  appropriate  frequency.
Supervision was generally concentrated on the engineering aspects, to which it
has made significant contributions.  However, the supervision reports do not
contain any discussion on the additional project components, viz., the
supplementary pumping station at Kouris dam, and the new Athienou irrigation
scheme (451 ha). Although these components were not financed out of the Bank
loan, they should have been included in supervision activities. Furthermore, the
agricultural development activities have not received required attention in the
Bank supervision, and no evidence was found to show that a Bank agriculturalist
visited the project since appraisal.
8.3      The Bank did not adequately stress some aspects of institutional
development in the project. In particular, the Bank should have emphasized more
forcefully  the need to establish the NWE and a M&EU within MANR.   The
establishment of M&EU in 1985 would have been valuable to project management and
provided substantial data to measure its agricultural impact.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1      The Borrower generally performed satisfactorily.  The feasibility study
for the project by ODA was conducted with active participation of GOC staff.
This staff also prepared the project detailed designs with the help of foreign
consultants.    A major  contribution of  the Government  was  the  successful
mobilization of the WDD engineering task force during all project phases,
including the current Phase 2 project. WDD completed most of project works ahead
of schedule with efficiency and appreciable cost saving (see para 5.9).  In
addition to contributions to completion of works through contracts, WDD's
performance on the project force account works was highly satisfactory in terms
of quality, timeliness and cost.



- 10 -
9.2      The Government has been generally successful from the beginning of the
project to date in recovering about 100% of O&M and capital cost for domestic
use of water, as required under the Loan Agreement. With respect to irrigation
water, the Loan Agreement divided irrigation schemes into two separate categories
for which recovery of 40% and 65% of the total of O&M and capital costs was
required.  The Government was behind target in this respect and in 1987, it was
determined that the actual recovery was 26% for the former and 35% for the latter
category.   In the same year, during negotiations for the SCP II, the Cypriot
delegation argued that the Bank's cost recovery requirements for the irrigation
schemes were particularly harsh, that they were not comparable to percentages
required of other countries in the regions and that this recovery requirement
would place Cyprus in an unfavorable position vis-a-vis its competitors on EEC
markets. The delegation also argued that the above percentages (40% and 65%)
were excessive and it had proved to be impossible to adjust tariffs sufficiently
to meet this requirement.
9.3      Other considerations lay behind the decision to reduce cost recovery
requirements: (a) the standards of O&M in Cyprus are high; (b) the actual crop
mix is more a function of demand than of water cost and thus there is little risk
that less-than-full cost recovery would distort crop selection; (c) social equity
and fiscal discipline were not major issues in Cyprus and the country's
progressive income tax system ensures that income earned by irrigation farmers
is properly taxed; and (d) in the case of the SCP, 100% of O&M and capital costs
were already being recovered for the domestic water. This guarantees a minimum
cost recovery on capital costs of 50% for SCP since the allocation of costs
between irrigation and domestic water supply is about 50/50.  In view of the
above, it was agreed that the Government would recover an average of 38% of the
sum of O&M and capital costs on all irrigation waters in Cyprus by the 1990
irrigation season. The Government has not yet fully met the target of 38%. The
current level of irrigation water cost recovery is 34%.
9.4      The Borrower did not perform as planned in establishing the NWE and M&EU
on time.   The NWE has of early 1993 not been established.   The M&EU was
established only in the later part of 1992 and needs strengthening. Completion
of TCCS has been substantially delayed. On present plans, they will be completed
in mid-1994.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1     Good relations were maintained between the Borrower and the Bank
throughout project preparation and implementation. Congenial and productive work
relationships existed between the consultants and WDD professionals. In general,
harmonious work relations were maintained between WDD officials, consultants and
contractors and suppliers. It also appears that relationships between farmers
and concerned WDD and MANR officials were satisfactory. Good work relationships
among all parties concerned contributed to the successful implementation of the
project.



- 11 -
11. Consulting Services
11.1     The bulk of consulting services was provided by SOGREAH (France) for the
Kouris Dam and Sir W. Halcrow (UK) for most of the remaining infrastructure. The
success of project implementation can be attributed in large part to the
outstanding performances of the international consulting firms, working in close
cooperation with competent WDD technicians.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1     The project SAR provided a useful framework for project implementation
and for preparation of the PCR. In the Loan Agreement, the project description
is not fully consistent with the SAR, which makes it difficult to compare the
actual cost with estimates in the SAR.
12.2     WDD's progress reports contain a large volume of important information
were very helpful in supervision and in preparing the PCR. The extensive data
base on the engineering operations of the SCP (water releases, sales, recovery)
is regularly updated by WDD. However, lack of adequate and verified data on the
agricultural activities in the project limit monitoring and evaluation activities
of this key element in the project.
13. Lessons Learned
13.1     The project's success is due in part to the early and comprehensive
planning that took place for the integrated development of available water
resources. A major strength of this planning was to give full consideration to
ensuring effective use of limited water supplies in the presence of several
competing demands.
13.2     Strong commitment by the Borrower, combined with close supervision and
support by the Bank, were important contributors to satisfactory project
implementation.
13.3     Weak institutional development complicates management and prejudices
project success. Delays in establishing the NWE adversely affected activities
relating to water resource management and the delay in establishing the M&EU left
managers and the Bank with only limited information on the agricultural impact
of the project.   Even at this stage, WDD and DA should endeavor to create a
detailed project data base by combining available technical data with
agricultural production, marketing and financial data to be collected, verified
and compiled by M&EU and used by project management in SCP II.
13.4     Where new institutions are to be established or existing institutions
substantially re-structured, there is need to specify underlying activities
clearly in the project document. The Bank should have emphasized more strongly
the early establishment of the M&EU and the NWE.
13.5     Over the medium- to longer-term, the limited availability of water will
determine the type and extent of particular economic activities.   In the
circumstances, there is need to continually examine the economics of competing



- 12 -
demands for water.
13.6     Project   implementation  must  be   flexible   in  rapidly-changing
circumstances.   The surge in tourism was largely unpredicted at the time of
project formulation.   In view of expected growth of this industry, there is
likely to be a continued shift in water use away from irrigation to domestic
consumption. This suggests the need for continuing monitoring of the pace and
type of irrigation development under SCP II.
13.7     In a water-short environment where high-value crops are produced,
expensive water conveyance by pipe and delivery through sprinklers and drip
systems can be technically- and economically-viable.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
(PHASE I)
(LOAN 2386 CY)
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.
GeneralL
The PCR is very well presented and written. It will be valuable source
of information for all interested in the Project.
2.       Monitoring and Evaluation
The lack of an effective Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) is heavily
overstressed as exemplified by the fact that it is mentioned on page 7, para
4.11; page 11, para 8.3; page 14, para 13.5; and page 14, para 14.2 (ii).
It should be noted, however, that the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MA&NR) proceeded rapidly in the establishment of a M&E unit
which was operational before the end of October 1992.
Referring specifically to para 13, page 14, we believe that there are
sufficient agricultural data.   What is really needed in this case is mere
collection and classification of the existing extensive data base.
3.       Water Entity
We agree in principle with the findings of the mission noted in paras
5.6, 8.4 and 14.2, as regards the creation of the Water Entity.
Our position is in accord with the statement by the Director General of
1IThe above comments of the GOC are based on the draft PCR.  They have been
incorporated in substance in this final version. Since the paragraph numbers of
the final document are different from the earlier draft, references used above
are not always consistent with this document.



- 14 -
the MA&NR made to the mission that a preliminary decision has been taken by the
Government as regards to the form of the Entity which is to be now instituted by
strengthening WDD so as to fulfill all the prerogatives of the planned Entity.
A final decision will be taken very soon and actions/measures for the
establishment of the Entity will follow suit.
4.       Water SuPplY Shortage
At the end of para 4.6, page 6, add the following: "as well as the
shifting of water from marginal agricultural activities to domestic supplies".
5.       Proiect Design. Agricultural Component - Page 7. Para 4.11
Here the mission should have emphasized the fact that the agricultural
development in an irrigation project is dynamic process, and usually the cropping
patterns in each are change not only from year to year but also from season to
season, thus, reporting of the actual situation becomes a very tedious exercise.
What is important, however, is to check periodically whether the changes that are
inevitable have negative effects on the economics of the project. However, the
economics of the project have been found satisfactory.
6.       Part III of PCR
Our comments/suggestions are presented for reasons of clarity and
convenience in the pages that follow.11
In case you have any remarks on our comments or if you need additional
clarifications, please let us know.
LThese comments, too, have been incorporated in the final version of Part III.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Loan No. Title               Purpose                     Year of      Status
Approval
- Ln. 960-CY                  To provide essential         1974      Loan closed
Paphos Irrigation Project    irrigation infrastructure                 1982
mainly for export production
and financing on-farm
investment
- Ln. 1483-CY                 Development of irrigation    1977      Loan closed
Pitsilia Integr. Rural       and improving health                      1984
Development Project          services
- Ln. 1658-CY                 To develop water resources   1979      Loan closed
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project   for irrigation and to reduce           1986
shortages of urban water
supplies in Nicosia, Limassol
and Larnaca
- Ln. 1988-CY                 To improve fruits and        1981      Loan closed
Fruit & Vegetable Export     vegetable export; improve                 1988
Project                      the utilization of scarce             PCR - 1991
water resources, farm
productivity and
employment opportunities
- Ln. 2279-CY                 To develop water resources   1983      Loan closed
Khrysokhou Irrigation Project   for irrigation on 2,000 ha in       Dec. 1989
North-West Cyprus;                    PCR - 1992
intensify agricultural
production and increase
agricultural export and
foreign exchange earnings
- Ln. 2509-CY                 To strengthen and improve    1985      Loan closed
Agricultural Research and    coordination among                     Dec. 1991
Extension                    research and extension
agencies
- Ln. 2914-CY                 The project would            1988       On-going
Southern Conveyor Project    supplement Phase I and
Phase II                     would mainly include
diversion works, irrigation
distribution networks;
domestic water treatment
works and on-farm
development through credit



- 16 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Item                       Date Planned        Date Revised         Actual Date
- Pre-feasibility Study'                                             1978
- Feasibility Study/                                                 1980-1982
- Preparationl                                                       Jan./Feb. 1983
- Appraisal Mission         April/May 1983                           April/May 1983
- Staff Appraisal Report    February 1984                            February 1984
- Loan Negotiations         January 1984                             January 1984
- Board Approval            March 6, 1984                            March 6, 1984
- Loan Signature            April 11, 1984                           April 11, 1984
- Loan Effectiveness        October 4, 1984                          October 4, 1984
- Project Completion        June 30, 1990                            June 30, 1990
- Loan Closing              December 31, 1990  December 31, 1991    Dec 31, 1991
1/ Initiated by the GOC in March 1978 with assistance from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
of the UK The pre-feasibility study concentrated on appraising the viability of alternative options. Feasibility
study started in 1980, for which consultants were appointed by the GOC. The overall management of the
study was the responsibility of the Director General of MANR. The Bank participated actively in the
discussions of major issues and the overall concept of the project.



- 17 -
Table 3. Loan Disbursements
.................... .Fiscal Year ....................
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
.................... .(USS million) .
Appraisal Estimate      2.9    6.6   11.9   17.3   21.8   25.0   27.0         -
Actual                  0.9    0.9    9.1    17.4   19.9   21.6   24.2        245"
Actual as % of SAR       31     14     76     101     91      86      90     91
Date of Final Disbursement: December 31, 1991
" USS 2.5 million cancelled.



- 18 -
Table 4. ProJoct Implemeptatlon
Indicator             |   Unlt   | SAR Estimate|  Revised         Actual    Actual as
Indicator         Unit I S"Etof SAR
Civil Works
(a) Kouris Dam
- Capacity             Mm3             115                       115         100
- Main conveyor         Km             110                       109.81      100
(b) Akhna Reservoir
- Capacity             Mm3               5.8                      5.8        100
(c) Connection main        Km              2                        2.18        109
Conveyor-Vasilikos-                   (600 mm)                (600 mm)
Pendaskinos
(d) Irrigation:
- Kokkinokhoria     ha (network)     5,125        9,000        9,277         181
- Athienou          ha (network)         n.a.                   420           -
- Water Supply:
.SCP                  Mm3             17           17           183         108
. Groundwater         Mm3              1S           2.5          2.5        167
- Distribution points   No.             48                        0
- Central distr. points  No.             0                       15
- Land Consolidation    ha           1,800        2,S83        2,583         144
(e) Domestic Water
- Limassol             Mm3              10                    }   13.7"      105
- Larnaca              Mm3               3                   )(to 31.9 at
- Nicosia              Mm3                                  u} Ph.ll)
- Famagusta            Mm3               -
(f Resettlement
- Houses                No.             55                      60T          109
- Trade centre          No.              -                        1
- School                No.              -1
Consultants
- Local                p.m.            288                       n.a.
- Expatriates          p.m.            444                       n.a.
'I All towns: Limassol, Larnaca, Nicosia, Famagusta + villages.
2' Of which 2 under construction.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
(Page 1)
A. Project Costs
(USS million)
Component                        SAR.C ..............  PCR .....         .             Total PCR              Remarks
Estimates   Actual (84-91)   Projected (92-94)   Total   as % of SAR
1. Kouris Dam                                      36.04        24.71               -           24.71        69      Unexpected low bids.
2. Main Conveyor and VPP Connect.                  35.75         32.23              -           32.23        90      Within accuracy range.
3. Akhna Dam                                        1.91          1.16              -            1.16        61      Unexpected low bids.
4a. Kokkinokhoria irrigation                       12.31         21.72             0.40         22.12        180     Equipped area increased by 80%;
tertiary network incorporated".
4b. Athienou irrigation                              -           0.28              1.98          2.26         -      Incorporated in 1988.
5. DWS Development & Khirokitia Extension           1.87         0.59               -            0.59        32      Cancellation of Tersephanou
acquifer recharge. Partly WDD
force account.
6. Project Central Control System                   0.50          ....             1.61          1.61       322      System complexity could not be
assessed at appraisal.
7. Land Acquisition                                 6.96         4.22              0.59          4.81        69      Within accuracy range.                0
8. Land Consolidation                               0.54         0.68              0.08          0.76       141      Consolidated area increased by
44%.
9. Adm. Buildings and Equipment                     0.39         0.59              0.07          0.66       169      Increased WDD needs.
10. Consultants                                      3.58         1.96             0.17           2.13        60     Actual cost for local consultant
not included.
11. Miscellaneous                                    1.29         1.77               -            1.77       137      Not comparable.
Total                                           101.14         89.91             4.90         94.81        94      Exceptional convergence for such
a complex project.
Source: WDD. See Annual Phasing: Annex 1 - Table 10.
'/ In spite of the fact that works implemented on force account by WDD led to significant savings.



- 2') -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
(Page 2)
B. Project Financing (Original currency)
Source_of_Fun__,_
Unit            SAR            Actual      Actual as % of
I SAR Estimates
IBRD Loan                          US$ million        27.00             24.50"          91
EIB                                ECU million        30.20            30.20            100
Kuwait Fund                         KD million         2.90              2.60W          90
Suppliers' Credit:
Consort. French Bank             DM million         80.40            80.40           100
Chart.rcd West LB (UK)           Stgf million        1.97              1.57           80
(iov'ernment of Cyprus             US$ million         693              n.a.
CL million         34.6            42.5            123
} C. Project Financing (CE million)
Source of Fund          SAR             Actual    % of total
IBRD Loan                 13.5              1135          12
EIB                       14.0              1631          17
Kuwait Fund                5.0               4.82          5
Suppliers' Credit         34.0              19.84         21
Government of Cyprus      34.6              42.49         45
Total                    101.1              94.81        100
Sour(e: UI')D.
US5 2.5 million cancellcd.
KD 309,712 undisbursed.
3Stag 407,364 undisbursed.



- 21 -
Table 6. Project Results
(Page 1)
A. Direct Benefits
SAR Estimates   Actual or PCR    Actual as % of
Estimates      SAR Estimates
A. IncremenL Agricult. Production
- Kokkinokhoria area:
|     Potatoes                    (tons)          105,500           97,300              92
|     Melons & Watermelons        (tons) }
12,400           14,000            113
. Other Vegetables                (toms) }
. Citrus                           (tons)                           24,000              -
- Anthienou area                                     n.a.              n.a.               -
B. Net Incr. Benefits per Unit of Irrigation Water
- C£/ha (1983 prices)                                0,395             n.a.
- C£E/ha (1992 prices)                               0,577             0,778'           135
C. Direct Beneficiaries
- Irrigation:
. Kokkinokhoria          (No. of Farmers)           2,000            7,510             375
. Anthienou               (No. of Farmers)          n.a.              300
- Domestic Water Supply.
. No. of Inhabitants                              495,000          495,000             100
' Irrigation: only Kokkinokhoria area.



- 92 -
Table 6. Project Results
(Page 2)
B. Economic Impact
SAR                           Actual
Economic Rate of Return
Phase I                                    10.5%                           12%
Phase II                                    n.a.                           17%
Project as a Whole                         12.8%                           13%
Remarks: The economic benefits of the project comprise the net value of the incremental agricultural
production (Annex 1, Table 7) for which economic prices as indicated in Annex 1, Tables 3 and
4 have been used. Total net value of rainfed crops estimated at C£45/ha (Annex 1, Table 8) has
been deducted under the with project situation on the assumption that if there were no project,
the without project situation would have witnessed a rapid deterioration from irrigated
agriculture to rainfed agriculture. Benefits from water supply have been derived by allocating an
economic value of water for domestic use of C£L.6/m3. In the absence of actual figures
regarding operation, maintenance and energy costs, SAR (Phases I and 11) values have been
used converted into 1992 constant prices by using inflators as given in Annex 1, Table 5. ERR
calculations are presented in Annex 1, Table 13.



- 23 -
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants
(Page 1)
Agreement|Section    Status" |Original Description of Covenant   |Comments
I .   **   *,  *Date
Loan     2.04          OK     12/90 Loan Closing.
OK           Submit Preliminary Study on
Recharging Aquifers during
Water Spills.
3.02 Sch.5    ACT    10/84 Establish Project Monitoring    Not implemented; actions
and Evaluation Unit when    programme to be submitted
Government of Cyprus        by end Oct. 1992.
recruitment freeze ends.
3.02 Sch.5   OK    06/85 Establish Project Operation
Unit.
3.03(a)Sch.2   OK    08/84 Carry out Study of Entity for   Study completed by
Development, Management and June 1989.
Allocation of Water Resources.
Final TOR of Study submitted
to Bank 05/85.
3.03(b)Sch.2   OK    06/85 Exchange views with Bank on   Also see Section 3.03 (a).
findings of Study for the Entity
of Water Resources.
3.03         ACT    12/85 Establish Entity for          Under Government Review,
Development, Management and still awaiting decision of the
Allocation of Water Resources. Council of Ministers.
3.04         OK    07/84 Appoint consultants for Kouris
Dam (SOGREAH) and for rest
of works (Halcrow).
3.07(d)      OK    06/91 Project Completion Report.    Subject of the present report.
3.08         OK      12/84 Complete steps for Land and
Rights Acquisition and furnish
evidence to Bank completed
except for section of conveyor
of which alignment has been
changed.
3.09 Sch.5   OK    06/90 Annual Audit Report, separate
for SCP & each Irrigation and
Domestic Water Supply Scheme.
3.10 and     OK      12/84 Carry out studies on proposed   Revised and implemented
4.04(b)(i)                 water charges for Operational  under Phase I Project
Irrigation Scheme & prior   (Ln. 2914-CY).
Irrigation projects.
'/ Key
OK:    Covenant complied with
ACT:   Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance



- 24 -
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants
(Page 2)
Agreement Section    | Status  Original Description of Covenant   |Comments
Loan     4.03(b)       OK             Panel of experts to inspect
Kouris Dam and submit fndings
and conclusions to Bank.
4.04(e)       OK            Annual review of water charges
for all projects and schemes for
irrigation and domestic water
supply.
OK     12/85 Review water charges, if      Also see LA. Section 4.05(e).
necessary, following annual
review and Bank's comments.
OK     09/84 Submit to Bank a Preliminary   A system  Operation Study
Plan for SCP Operation       started in Feb. 1991
during shortages.           (NTE: Dec. 1993).
Sched. 5               OK      07/84 Establish Project             Project Directors and
Implementation Unit.         Managers appointed.
OK     07/84 Establish Project Advisory
Committees.
OK     07/84 Establish Project Policy and
Coordination Committee.
OK     03/90 Quarterly progress report.



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources"
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                   Planned                                   Actual
Through Appraisal                                                 n.a.                                     n.a.
Appraisal through Board Approval                                  n.a.                                     n.a.
Board Approval through Effectiveness                              n.a.                                     n.a.
Supervision                                                        16                                       9
B. Missions
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/Year         No. of Persons       Days in Field      Specialization'         Rating-'        Type of Problems'
Appraisal                 April/May 83             5                  n.a.                 n.a.
Post Appraisal            September 83             2                  14                  n.a.
Supervision 1              August 84               2                  10                AE, CE                  1                   M
Supervision 2              February 85             1                   5                   CE                   2                   M
Supervision 3             September 85             2                   5                 E, CE                  2                   M
Supervision 4               March 86               3                   5                 CE, E                  2                   n.a.
Supervision 5               April 87               2                   5                 CE, FA                 2                   n.a.
Supervision 6               June 88                1                   8                   CE                   1                   n.a.
Supervision 7                May 89                1                   7                   CE                    1                  n.a
Supervision 8             September 90             2                   6                  CE, E                 2                   n.a
Supervision 9               March 92               1                   10                  CE                   2                   n.a
PCR-                      September 92             2                   14                CE, E                 n.a.                 n.a
'/ To be checked and completed by the World Bank.
2/ AE = Agricultural Economist; E = Economist; CE = Civil Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst.
31  1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary-, 3 = Deteriorating.
4/ M = Managerial.
'/  Carried out by FAO/CP.



- 96 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development
(SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 1. Cropped Area Inside SCP Area (Kokkinokhoria)
Cropped Area       Water Requirement           Total Water
(ha)                (m3/ha)            Requirement (Mm-)
Permanent Crops
Citrus                            600                 7,000                     4.2
Annual Crops
Potatoes:
* winter                        480                 4,000                     1.9
* intermediate                  640                  4,000                    2.6
* spring                      2,630                  3,400                    8.9
Melon & Watermelons               305                 4,300                     13
Other Vegetables                  120                 5,000                     0.6
Sub-total                       4,175                                          153
Total                           4,775                                          19.5
Source: DA of MANR.



- 27 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 2. Kokklnokhoria Project Area: Gross Value Production In Economlc Terms
Area"          Yield       Production      Price      Gross Value of
(ha)         (ton/ha)       (tons)                   Prod. (Cr_00)
Potatoes
. winter             480           19.0          9,120        161"            1,468
. intermediate      640            16.5         10,560        161'/           1,700
. spring           2,630          295           77,585        161'V          12,491
Sub-total           3,750            -97,265                    -15,659
Melons and           305           34            10,370        175"            1,815
Watermelons
Other                120           30            3,600         3203/           1,152
Vegetables
Citrus               600           40            24,000        209"            5,016
Total               4,775                                                     23,642
I/ See Table 1.
2/  Expressed in economic terms based on FOB Cyprus export prices as indicated in Table 3.
3/ Average for mid-1992; based on Cyprus FOB export prices.
4/  Average 1992 farmgate prices lemons/oranges multiplied by CF of 1.90 as indicated in Table 4.



- 28 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 3. Economic Price of Potatoes
(CE/ton)
Cif Price UK (Mid-1992)                   225.5
Freight                                   - 38.0
Insurance                                  -0Q5
FOB Prices:                               187.0
FOB Expenses                               - 3.5
Transport to Port                          - 1.5
Pacldng Expenses                           1 0
Price Ex Packing House:                   165.0
Transport Farm-Packing House                4Q0
Economic Price Farmgate                   161.0
Source: Potato Marketing Board.



- 29 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 4. Economic Prices - Oranges and Wheat
Oranges                          Wheat
1995     1      2005            1995      1     2005
...................... (US$/ton) ......................
Projected Prices in 1995        315             290              108             105
constant terms"
Prices in 1992 constant         482             471              165             170
terms2'
Freight & Insurance
Cost Cif Larnaca                537             526              215             220
......................              ......................
Cost Cif in C Jr                218             214               87              89
Port Handling charges and        22              21               9                9
Storage"
Transport to Market             2il
Prices at Market                260             255              116             118
Transport Farm to Market        - 10              Q              JD              -J1
Farmgate Prices-economic        250             245              106             108
Farmgate Prices-financial       130              130             139             139
Conversion Factor               1.92            1.88            0.76            0.78
" WB Commodity Price Projections (June 1992).
2/ Adjusted by MUV index to restate prices in 1992 constant terms.
3/  Exchange rate: CE 1 = US$ 2.46.
4t  Estimated at 10% of Cif value.



- 30 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 5. Consumer Price Index and Inflators
Consumer Price Index"            Inlators           Inflation'       IndeX2/
(1985 = 100)             (1992 prices)            (%)
1982               85.5                      1.54                 6.4           4143
1983               89.8                      1.46                 5.1           435.4
1984               95.2                      138                  6.0           461.6
1985               100.0                     131                  5.0           484.6
1986               101.2                     1.30                 1.2           490.4
1987               104.0                     1.26                 2.8           504.2
1988               107.2                     1.23                 3.4           5213
1989               111.7                     1.18                 3.8           541.1
1990               116.7                     1.13                 4.5           565.5
1991               122.6                     1.07                 5.0           593.8
1992               131.4                     1.00                 7.0           6353
Source: IMP (International Financial Statistics).
2/  Source: Central Bank of Cyprus.



- 31 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 6. Production Cost per ha of Major Crops In Kokkinokhoria"
Potatoes         Melons &
Watermelons   Vegetables'      Citrus"
_Spring Winter
....................... (Cf/ha)......................
Seed/Transport                560        338          272           402
Fertilizers                    177       141          119           131            122
Plant Protection               236       237          114            92            176
Weed Control                   41         41          20             73            53
Irrigation-                    195       326         335            224            592
Mechanization                 212        200          160            148           122
Material                       100        63           -              -
Hired Labour                  246        185          83             273         1,222
Other                          177       153          110           132           229
Crop Insurance                 174       116           -              -            116
Interest on Open Capital       53         45          31             44            119
Total (1991 Prices)          2,171     1,845        1,244          1,519         2,751
Averages spring/winter'           2,073              n.a            n.a           n.a
Total 1992 Prices'                2,218             1,331          1,625         2,944
1, Source: MANR based on Agricultural Research Institute data.
2/  Based on cucumbers, cabbages and cauliflowers.
3/ Average oranges/lemons.
4/  Excluding cost of water from SCP (only groundwater)
5/  Wcighted average spring potatoes 70%, winter and intermediate potatoes 30%.
6/  Adjusted using inflation index as given in Table 5.



- 32 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 7. Net Value of Production in Economic Terms - Kokkinokhoria Project Area
Gross Value of        Production Costs2'       Net Value of
Production"                                    Production
.......................... (COOO) .
Potatoes                    15,659                  8,318                  7,341
Melons and                   1,815                    406                  1,409
Watermelons
Other Vegetables            1,152                     195                   957
Citrus                      5,016                   1,766                  3,250
Total                       23,642                                        12,957
As indicated in detail in Table 2.
21  Based on total area as given in Table 1 and production cost per ha as indicated in Table 6.



- 33 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase 1)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part m: Annex 1: Table 8. Estimated Economic Net Return for Cereals (Wheat/Barley)
Wheat              Barley
A. Gross Value of Production/ha
Yield-Grain (tons/ha)                     2.0                2.0
Yield-straw (tons/ha)                     2.0                2.0
Prices-Grain (Ca/ton)                    106"                94"
Prices-Straw (CL/ton)                     21                21
Gross Value of Production (Ca/ha)       254                230
B. Production Costs (C£/ha)
Seed                                     24                 19
Fertilizers                              48                 48
Weed control                             32                 32
Mechanization                            52                 52
Other                                    16                 16
Crop Insurance                            8                  8
Interest on operating capital             7                  7
Total (1991 Prices)                       187                182
Total (1992 Prices)'                      200                195
C. Net Value of Production (C£/ha)        54                  35
D. Average Wheat/Barley (Cf/ha)                     45
E. Total net value of cereal production In project area under rainfed conditions
is estimated as follows: C£4S x 4,200 ha = C£189,000.
l/ Economic price: see details in Table 4.
2/  Fmancial price = Ca 121/ton converted into economic prices by applying a conversion factor of 0.78 (ame
as wheat).
3/ Adjusted using inflation index as given in Table S.



- 34 -
CYPRUS: Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase I)
(Loan 2386-CY) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 1: Table 9. Annual Water Supply from SCP
Domestic Water Supply               Irrigation
Yearshae                                                 hae r           Total
Yea | Phase I T     Phase It  Phase I"   |  Phase II'
............................ (MM3)...........................
1988            1.7            -              3.1             -              4.8
1989            2.4            -             12.8             -             15.2
1990            5.1            -             153              -             20.4
1991           13.7            -              2.5             -             16.2
1992           143             -              7.0             -             213
1993           143             3.7           12.0             5.0           35.0
1994           143             8.2           17.4             8.6           485
1995           143            11.8           17.8            12.7           56.6
1996           143            145            183             155            62.6
1997 - onwards      143            17.6           183             155            65.7
Source: Water Development Department: SCP Progress Report (1992/Si). Figures for the period 1988-
1991 are actual figures.
Including Kokidnokhoria and Athienou areas.
/ Including Akrotiri, Parekklisha, Mazotos and Kiti areas.



10i - -   -                                             I -
- ----   ---- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----- -      
I  }ffi.0   | ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ *  -  .  t  O  o  O  O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I aI ,
. ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    A              NE        o          
X  I          I    g   S   o   n      ;   °   S   S   °   §   O   | S |    |   i~~~~~I 
e  I  --     - ----------------  ---------  -10
--   -         __  __   -______ -______- ______- ______-  -,-
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -
__ ___  _ _ _   _   _ _  _   _   _ _  _   _
Ai              00        0000~
- @    I                                                        I -
X  I  8I 00000  0 o0   30  al! 
A                                                      I_______________ _    _I   'I
- s  #  I#  ~ I      E   ~  ILN  R  @       o  e  F  I            °
[T~~~      ~ <  |  .  !  - -  - -  _   _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _           w
0 0
i !2 8 1  |n   |  a   ;  o~    a g   o   o        i a      -    If dI     
e1                                                                        -1   -  _  _________    __    __-_  
.,E        iI   I    °°°§°tORONSP                                    ,o,-II3 
'7         - !  --!-------------------------------
"  i  s0                                   o Faaoo j                i 8      
i__l_____   _    I -                                                 -~
I~~~~~~~ 0^                 0                 3  3      Io  o              o°°£i3X.|o  
--~  0    1!I
I    I                                                         -           



- 36 -
C                              t                                                    -                                           N ¢  H  Sl n111I  
X~~~~~~~                                          00                         a        -o        28            - °-  °   q° o R°   fietg2~|5 
tU                                        i ' __       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                               _ _I__ __
K                                                                                                          I~~~~~~~~ 
-a__'---------------------_-____''
|~~ ~ ~                   o           o  2    §]    w               ,  °    fl   8  :   - 1 g 1
i   , _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _ _   _ _   _ _   _
i|           S       I                                                        I
;   i                       N         -  -  -  - -    -  - 8 -     -   -   -  -  -
ig  ~    ~           K!   o o         888 o          og ^°  °8     ° 8 ° ° ° °11  
i       I                                                                         E  i____________________
IQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
j I           *   o  C       0   0          0     - .   .   .   .
-            -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   -
I   I     I                                                       O        I       I   Ila
*O ___ ___
|                                                        I I    O   O  O   O 
,____________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                      _ _ _ _I 
I1I       I       I   ~o            00          so           000o:o o         
J___________                    00 _0_______             0_______
- -          - -   -   - -   - -   -   - --- --          --    -   -   -   -   -



Annex 1: Table 12
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS:Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP Phase 1)
Project Completion Report Annex I
Table 12:       TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
SCP - PHASE 1
YEAR                         Irrigation                 DWS                                   TOTAL
__  _ _ ____     ___   _ ____        ___ _ _  _ _     I_ _ _  ___ _    ___-              _  _ __  _  _   ____   _  __  _
Current I/        Constant         Current I/        Constant         Current I/        Constant                 'Inflator 2/
Prices         1992 Prices         Prices         1992 Prices         Prices                  1992 Prices
~~___ ____ __ __ ____ ___ _______   -----------                                                                                      __   ___
(CL'000)                                                    _
1984             1520              2098             2014              2779             3534              4877              1.38
1985             4083              5349             5612              7352             9695             12700              1.31
1986            12843             16696            14712             19126            27555             35822              1.30
1987            10763             13561             8356             10529             19119            24090              1.26
1988             8530             10492             3135              3856             11665            14348              1.23
1989             6233              7355              1309             1545             7542              8900              1.18
1990             5317              6008              1617             1827             6934              7835              1.13
1991             2716              2906             1191              1274             3907              4180              1.07
1992             2121              2121              455               455             2576              2576              1.00
1993              876               876              499               499              1375             1375              1.00
1994              509               509              440               440              949               949              1.00
SCP - PHASE 2



Annex 1: Table 12
Page 2 of 2
YEAR                           Irrigation                     DWS                                 TOTAL
Current I/        Constant         Current 1/         Constant         Current 1/        Constant                 Inflator 2/
Prices         1992 Prices         Prices          1992 Prices         Prices                  1992 Prices
(CL'OOO)
_        ~~_ _____         _ ____       __ __                     ____00          ___________
1984                0                 0                 0                 0                 0                 0              1.38
1985                16               21                22                29                38                50              1.31
1986               47                61                63                82               110               143              1.30
1987               68                 86               86               108               154               194              1.26
1988              1118              1375               91               112              1209              1487              1.23
1989              1014              1197             8580             10124              9594             11321              1.18
1990             2590              2927              2866              3239              5456             6165               1.13                    l
1991             3908              4182              2768              2962              6676             7143               1.07                   Li
1992             2456              2456              7097              7097              9553             9553               1.00
1993             2299              2299              7976              7976             10275             10275              1.00
1994             5705              5705              7156              7156             12861             12861              1.00
1995             3350              3350              3652              3652              7002             7002               1.00
1/ See tables 10 and 11.
2/ See table 5.                 |



Annex 1: Table 13
CYPRUS: Southem Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP - Phase I)                             ANNEX 1
______ ___   _ _____ _____ ___   _ ______   ____ __   __ _____   Proj ct   Co pletio   Repo t   ___ ____   _____ ct_Co mpletion__        Tabea 13rt_    _Table__13
Economic Rate of Return
Investment Costs 1/                       Operation. Maintenance 2/                          Benefits                     Balances to be
I 000 CL                               and Energy Coats in '000 CL                        '000 CL                       discounted
inigation           Water Supply            irrigation         Water Supply          Irrigation          Water Suppty 4/
Years      Phase I    Phase 11    Phase I    Phase 11   Phase I   Phae 11   Phase I   Phase 11  Phase I 3/  Phase 11 2/   Phase I    Phase 11    Phase I    Phase 11       Total
1984          2.1           0         2.8         0          0         0          0        0           0           0         0           0           0          0                  0
1985          5.3           0         7.3         0          0         0          0        0           0           0         0           0           0           0                  0
1986         16.7         0.1        19.1       0.1          0         0          0        0           0           0         0           0           0           0                  0
1987         13.6         0.1        10.5       0.1          0         0          0        0           0           0         0           0           0           0                  0
1988         10.5         1.4         3.9       0.1        0.1         0          0        0          2.3          0          1          0           0           0                  0
1989          7.4         1.5         1.5         1        0.5         0          0        0         9.4           0        1.4          0         1.4           0                  0
1990            6         2.9         1.8       3.2        0.7         0          0        0        11.3           0        3.1          0         5.9           0                  0
1991          2.9         4.2         1.3         3        0.7         0          0        0          1.8          0        8.2          0         5.1           0                  0
1992          2.1         2.5         0.5       7.1        0.7         0          0        0         5.6           0        8.6          0        10.9           0                1.3
1993          0.9         2.3         0.5         8        0.7       0.1          0       0.1       12.8         0.1        8.6        2.2        19.3           0               11.1
1994          0.5         5.7         0 4       7.2        0.7       0.1          0        2        12.8         0.6        8.6        4.9        19.8           0               10.3
1995            0         3.4          0        3.7        0.7       0.1          0        2        12.8         1.8        8.6        7.1        20.7           0               20.4
1996            0           0          0          0        0.7       0.1          0       0.5       12.8         2.3        8.6        8.7        20.7        10.4               31.1
1997            0           0          0          0        0.7       0.2          0       0.7       12.8         3.9        8.6       10.6        20.7        13.6               343 3
1998            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.7       12.8           5        8.6       10.6        20.7        14.7               35 4
1999            0           0          0          0        0.7       0.2          0       0.8       12.8           6        8.6       10.6        20.7        15.6               36.3
2000            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.8        12.8        7.7        8.6       10.6        20.7        17.3                 38
2001            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.8        12.8        7.3        8.6       10.6        20.7        16 9               37 6
2002            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.9        12.8        7.9        8.6       10.6        20.7        17.4               38.1
2003            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.9        12.8        8.2        8.6       10.6        20.7        17.7               38.4
2004            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.9        12.8        6.8        8.6       10.6        20.7        16.3                 37
2005            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.9        12.8        7.4        8.6       10.6        20.7        16.9               37.6
2006            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.9        12.8        2.4        8.6       10.6        20.7        11.9               32.6
2007            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.9        12.8        8.2        8.6       10.6        20.7        17.7               38.4
2008            0           0           0         0        0.7        0.2         0       0.9        12.8        7.6        8.6       10.6        20.7        17.1               37.8
ERR: Phaa 1 12%;      Phase 11 17%;          Phase I + Phaie 11 13%
1/ Details wr given in Table 12.                          i                                       _
2/ As estimated In SAR: SCP Phase 11 nd converted into '92 constant prices by using Inflator givn in Table 5.                                   _
3/ See detais in Table 7.         I          1          I          I         I          I        I                       I         i
4/ Quantity of water as given in Table 9 and vald at CL 0.61m3.






ISRD 20379R
r, , 7g .c    - ec'~ s~a?  -                        33      .        - -                           NICOSIA                          33!
.                                                                = W 9ta  IR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EATMENT WC RKSr /   Lno
A~~~~~~~~~~AIAM.A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ KK-4*0I
'                       ~~~~~~~~~~-REATAEINT * C'.S                           \ /                (.CYP R  U  S
C,'~ C '. we                                                                               t  ) ANDTS PjWP OF+EA ROamaca  SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT
R 83rsPt-es > .. X ............... s g  C l <'t'r / OR'4 SA'EQ !9t-'> 'PRINCIPAL FEATURES
; - A  'C (290170\<g ) Vaslikos-Pendasklinos                                                                                                                                       SouThem Con yor
/  < v y   t   <g   /^ /   <       _      >     ,;,z,+EotAMoSl,>8>->-              / =71>/                          Existina     ProjecteMPP)        Phase31     PhcaseBriting  Pase I  hose11
-   e}  tY  ;           >\/f                  ^;                        W                                 Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eervoiZrsj)r and Damsd 
PEs )  J   LlMssoL    >  S _   P NDASKNaS  Tronsmissron Mains -   -           ----        ----- ---
/ , t e7l a AIzA~~7~~TEN                                                                                                   0Y F°  k#ALo TreatmTent Vioks *  
, l  \  -,  C_  __ ;)0\ ws< S<=t=JMCONNEWON M4N AaLSer vvorks ts~~~~~~~~~~~~Aqjlfr WoKs 
,_, ^ ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iA    PENDLtRAL                                                                 Mann Storoge Tanks*00
7                        t  fioated Ares
urAbolt,A                            S        A N       A                                       SatLakes
L' fpskopt    AXOM                              krorr tiri          M    Lc  D  / 7 E  R  RAA  NEF  A  N                                            RrsrnhoerireLn
Bay    8ay                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Preert Cmeasfire tine----
\S   L  A                                                      Major Towns N
U.K. Sovereign Base Areas
r. b-d,,, ..on... 4..  o   . onr                                                                                                                                                                    "  K0        15     20
J- Mrotcep&tlSdiboutOf2       W3,                                                                                                 33,j4t                                                                                   ^e-pln
L  "Y  "Y --4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 9



