Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3720-CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME]
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOP1
(PHASE I)
February 10, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTSI/
US$1.00                                     CE 0.50 (Cyprus Pound)
C£ 1.00 = mils 1,000                        US$2.00
ABBREVIATIONS
ARI         Agricultural Research Institute
EIB         European Investment Bank
FEEAP       Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan
MANR        Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAC         Project Advisory Committee
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
POU         Project Operation Unit
PPCC        Project Policy and Coordination Committee
SCP         Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development
VPP         Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project
WDD         Water Development Department of MANR
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ As of September 1983.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT (PHASE I)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:    Republic of Cyprus
Amount:      US$27.0 million
Terms.       Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project      The project is the first phase of a two-phase development to
Description; harness the Republic of Cyprus' last substantial remaining
surface water resources. Different supply options, phasing and
technical alternatives were examined. The proposed Phase I
project is the least-cost alternative to meet the Republic's
priority water needs. The project's primary objectives are (i)
to ensure adequate water supplies to major cities as well as to
rural areas and (ii) to maintain vitally important irrigated crop
production in an area threatened by aquifer seawater intrusion.
The project also aims to rationalize further the utilization of
the country's scarce water resources in Cyprus through the
establishment of appropriate institutions and the implementation
of realistic cost recovery measures for both domestic and
irrigation water. The project components include (a) a major dam
and appurtenant structures; (b) a main conveyor (110 km) and
connecting pipelines; (c) a pressurized irrigation network; (d) a
terminal reservoir; (e) domestic water treatment and conveyance
works; (f) establishment of project administration including a
central water control system; and (g) provision of consultant
services. The project would directly benefit nearly 600,000
domestic water consumers and 10,000 persons in the irrigated
farming community who, without the project, would have to
discontinue highly profitable irrigated farming. Major risks to
the project would arise only if the second phase were not
implemented. Without a second phase, water for irrigation would
have to be gradually curtailed and eventually even eliminated
because of increasing domestic water demand. This risk is,
however, highly unlikely to be faced since the Government
considers the implementation of the entire (two phases) project
to be critical to the country's economic well being and has given
assurances during negotiations that it will promptly implement
the second phase.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Cost;
Local     Foein        Total
---    (US million)-------
Kouris Dam                              18.3       34.8         53.1
Main Conveyor                            9.7       45.2         54.9
Akhna Reservoir                          1.0        1.7          2.7
Kokkinokhoria Irrigation                 5.8       12.8         18.6
VPP Connection                          0.3         0.5          0.8
Domestic Water Supply Works              1.1        3.5          4.6
Land Acquisition
and Consolidation                    10.8         0.4         11.2
Central Control System,
Bldgs. & Equipment                    0.3         0.9          1.2
Consultants' Services                   1.4         4.0          5.4
Base Cost                            48.7       103.8        152.5
Physical Contingencies                  6.2        13.1         19.3
Price Contingencies                     9.4        21.1         30.5
Sub-Total                            15.6        34.2         49.8
Total 1/                           64.3       138.0        202.3
Financing Plan;
Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Bank                                     -         27.0         27.0
Government                             64.3         5.0         69.3
European Investment Bank                 -         28.0         28.0
Kuwait Fund                              -         10.0         10.0
Export Credits                           -         68.0         68.0
Total                              64.3       138.0        202.3
Estimated Disbursements;
Bank FY    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
…-------------------(US$ million)--------------------
Annual               2.9      3.7     5.3      5.4     4.5      3.2      2.0
Cumulative           2.9      6.6    11.9    17.3    21.8    25.0    27.0
Economic Rate of Return;  13 percent (for Phases I and II)
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4756-CY, dated February 9, 1984
Map; No. IBRD 17484: Southern Conveyor Project - Principal Features
1/ Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF
CYPRUS FOR A SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT
FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT (PHASE I)
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Cyprus for the equivalent of US$27.0 million to help
finance the foreign exchange costs of the First Phase of the Southern Conveyor
Project for Water Resources Development. The loan would have a term of
fifteen years including three years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is expected to
participate in financing the project. The Government has taken steps to
obtain funds from the European Investment Bank (EIB) under a protocol
agreement with EIB towards financing the project. It has also received
substantial indications of firm interest from export credit sources to
participate in financing the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report on Cyprus (No. 4069-CY) was circulated to
the Executive Directors in January 1983. An economic mission visited Cyprus
in October 1983; its findings are reflected in this Part. Although Bank
economic missions to Cyprus have visited all economically important areas of
the country and had discussions with the Government as well as the Turkish
Cypriot authorities, it has not been possible to assess fully the economic
situation and prospects of the whole island, given the extremely limited
economic data base for northern Cyprus, which is under Turkish Cypriot
control. Hence the analysis provided in this and other Parts of this Report
relates only to the Government-controlled part in southern Cyprus. The Basic
Country Data is provided in Annex 1.
General Background
3.       The economy of Cyprus grew at over 7 percent per annum between 1960
and 1973, despite tension between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
communities. The major contributing factors were a competent public
administration, dynamic entrepreneurs, a high rate of investment especially in
the private sector, a rapid increase in agricultural exports contributing to
strong overall balance of payments, and flexible fiscal and monetary policies
that helped to stimulate growth while maintaining domestic price stability.
4.       The 1974 events brought a sudden, although temporary, end to this
long period of economic growth. Since then, the country has de facto been
divided into two parts by a cease-fire line, with decreasing movement of
people and goods between them. The southern part under the Government's
control accounts for 64 percent of the area of the island and over 77 percent
of total population. In the northern part under Turkish Cypriot control, 23
percent of the total population lives on 36 percent of the land area. About
one-third of the total population was displaced by the 1974 events, with



- 2 -
nearly 180,000 Greek Cypriots moving south, and approximately 45,000 Turkish
Cypriots moving north. Most of the displaced population has now been
resettled. UN-sponsored intercommunal talks to find a possible political
solution have been held intermittently since 1978. The political situation
has been complicated somewhat by the unilateral declaration of independence by
the Turkish-Cypriot Administration on November 15, 1983. However, this
development has not materially altered the economic realities that have
existed since the de facto partition of the island following the events of
1974.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
.5.      With the displacement of population and severance of sectoral
Linkages in mid-1974, the economy was severely depressed; the unemployment
rate rose to nearly 25 percent of the labor force, and exports and imports
Eell by about 55 percent in the second half of 1974. The drop in export
earnings resulted mainly from the non-exploitation of about one-half of
Cyprus' cultivated land area (which produced over 50 percent of its
agricultural exports) and the non-utilization of about two-thirds of the
island's tourist facilities.
6.       Government policy to reactivate the economy in the area under its
control primarily through an expansionary fiscal policy proved highly
successful. GDP (in real terms) grew annually by an average of 10.7 percent
between 1975 and 1982. Since 1979, the growth rate has slowed down and was
about 4.5 percent in 1982, as the economy reached full capacity and world
recession adversely affected some export markets. In parallel, unemployment
decreased from over 16 percent in 1975 to about 3 percent in 1982. Despite
rapid growth, the rate of inflation remained modest. Consumer prices rose to
as much as 13 percent in 1980, but slowed to 6.4 percent in 1982.
7.       The Government continued its expansionary fiscal policy, however,
even after near-full employment was reached in 1978. This resulted in
budgetary deficits that averaged about 7.3 percent of GDP during 1979-82.
These deficits have been financed mainly by grants and external borrowing, and
by some borrowing from the Central Bank. The Government believes that it
would be able to slow down expenditures, despite the need to continue some
refugee assistance and to complete ongoing investment projects. However, its
attempts to reduce subsidies for grain and vine products are meeting strong
resistance in Parliament. Similarly, its proposal to permit an increase in
interest rates above the 9 percent ceiling has not been accepted by
Parliament. In the circumstances, the Government has attempted to increase
revenues by changing the tax system and adopting other fiscal measures to suit
the changed economic conditions; this has already significantly improved the
revenue-GDP ratio, from about 20 percent in 1979 to over 23 percent in 1982.
8.       The changes in the tax system and fiscal measures and the restraints
put on credit expansion by the Central Bank have had a deflationary impact on
the economy. Consumer and investment demands have softened, resulting in a
continuous decline in the inflation rate since 1980. This was accompanied by
a small rise in unemployment, from 2 percent in 1980 to about 3 percent in
]L982.



- 3 -
9.       Stimulated by expanding local demand for consumer and investment
goods, imports increased rapidly until early 1980. The increases in the
current account balance of payments deficit, however, were adequately covered
by the rapidly rising external capital inflows. During 1981-82, as overall
growth decelerated, import growth slowed down while exports, especially of
services, continued to grow at a higher rate, resulting in an improvement in
the balance of payments. Foreign exchange reserves increased, to six months
of imports at the end of 1982. For 1983, exports of goods stagnated because
of a decline in import demand in Middle Eastern countries. Tourism, however,
continues to grow at about 10 percent. As a result, the short-term outlook
for the balance of payments remains healthy.
10.      The recent favorable developments, however, have been accompanied by
two trends that could have serious adverse effects in the longer term; the
continued negative public savings and declining private investment (in real
terms) in manufacturing since 1979. As discussed in para. 7, the negative
public savings have been the result of the Government's continued expansionary
fiscal policy even after the economy reached a high level of employment. The
decline in manufacturing investment resulted from several factors, including
rapidly rising labor costs, inadequate institutions to promote investment in
new products requiring modern technologies and organization, relatively lower
profitability in manufacturing compared to that in tourism and real estate,
and pessimism regarding the growth of demand for manufactured goods in the
Middle Eastern countries. Recently, however, labor cost increases have
moderated, and a declining trend is projected.
Medium-Term Prospects
11.      The Government has launched the Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan
(1982-1986) which calls for a GDP growth rate of about 4.0 percent per year.
This is based on a continuing shift in development strategy toward
medium-scale, higher technology, more capital-intensive investments;
consolidation of small factories into larger units, to realize economies of
scale; and export and tourism as the major engines of growth. In addition,
increased emphasis is put on the promotion of international services, e.g.
off-shore banking, consultancy and professional services, to cater to Middle
Eastern and North African countries.
12.      The strategy of promoting investment in and export of higher quality
products and services is appropriate. The Plan's target of a 4 percent GDP
growth is within the country's potential and the investment program is sound.
Achievement of the target, however, depends on adequate policies to generate
some public savings and to reverse the declining trend in private
manufacturing investment.
13.      Since considerable efforts have been made to increase government
revenues, these have risen significantly. To maintain this momentum, the
Government needs to (i) close tax loopholes, (ii) strengthen tax
administration and auditing procedure, (iii) raise penalties for tax evasion,
and (iv) introduce a system of value-added tax. These measures should be
complemented by a slow-down in the growth of current expenditures,
particularly of civil servants' salaries, and reduction of subsidies for



grain production and imported animal feed. The projected declining trend in
wage increases is a favorable factor for private manufacturing investment.
Hcowever, to promote such investment Cyprus needs also to; systematically
ga,ther and disseminate technological information; establish contacts with
foreign firms and promote joint ventures; explore the availability of
licenses, technical know-how agreements and marketing arrangements; arrange
projects for finance and implementation; and provide extension services.
14.      Cyprus will continue to need an increasing inflow of foreign capital
to help finance the necessary restructuring of its economy. However, since
access to long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral support is
expected to become increasingly limited, most future public external borrowing
to cover the projected current account deficits will have to come from
commercial sources, either in the form of export or suppliers' credit, or
commercial bank loans. Considering the continuing political uncertainties,
Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing external financing from such sources
has been encouraging. It successfully raised Eurodollar borrowings in late
1977 of $30 million, followed by loans of $50 million in 1978, $48 million in
July 1980, $85 million in September 1981 and $70 million in July 1982. The
country has also begun to attract significant export and suppliers' credits.
These forms of external borrowing are indicative of the probable future trend.
15.      The Bank's efforts to date have been directed towards encouraging
Cyprus not only to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to use Bank
projects as catalysts to attract other external support, including cofinancing
wjith commercial banks. Commercial bank cofinancing was arranged in 1980 in
connection with the Third Cyprus Development Bank Project (Loan 1744-CY);
substantial suppliers' credit and a Euro-currency loan for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 1873-CY) in 1980; a loan from the
Kuwait Fund for the Third Highway Project (Loan 2128-CY) in 1982; and a loan
from the European Investment Bank for the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Loan
1658-CY) in 1982.
16.      Cyprus' external debt has so far remained low, because of the past
policy of financing development from internal resources and the availability
of- substantial levels of grant aid from Greece and the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), mainly for refugee assistance (ranging from
$36 to $59 million per year since 1974). Total long-term public debt
outstanding and disbursed was $611.9 million as of December 31, 1982. Public
debt service was about 9.7 percent of goods and non-factor services in 1982.
However, given the increasing reliance on commercial financing, debt service
is projected to increase to about 14 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services by 1986. The Bank's share of debt outstanding and
disbursed declined from 51 percent in 1975 to about 11 percent at the end of
1982, while its share in debt service declined from 47 percent in 1975 to less
than 12 percent in 1982. Thus, the Bank's exposure, once quite high, has now
declined to a more normal level and is expected to continue to decline
further. Given this background and the Government's record of economic
management, the country continues to be creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS"Y
17.      Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of September 30, 1983, 22
loans totalling $188.3 million (net of cancellations) were made; of this,
about $146.0 million was held by the Bank. The main areas of concentration
have been infrastructure (power, sewerage, highways and ports), industry
through the Cyprus Development Bank, agriculture and water resource
development. A summary statement of Bank loans to Cyprus as of
September 30, 1983 is provided in Annex II.
18.      The events of 1974 had a substantial impact on some of the on-going
Bank-financed projects, as well as on planned operations. In particular, the
sewerage project in Famagusta, which lay entirely in the area controlled by
the Turkish Cypriots and the Nicosia-Morphou highway, the alignment of which
coincided with the cease-fire line, were affected. The Famagusta Sewerage
Project was 90 percent complete when construction was interrupted and could
not be commissioned in the absence of a political settlement. The undisbursed
balance of the loan was, therefore, cancelled. Construction of the
Nicosia-Morphou highway was suspended after only one month of work and the
unutilized balance of about $3.6 million transferred to the Second Highway
Project. The Nicosia Sewerage Project, which straddled the Greek Cypriot and
Turkish Cypriot areas of Nicosia, was also incomplete. However, as a result
of the initiative of the UNDP and the Bank, cooperation between the two
communities on this matter was engendered and a formal agreement to complete
the project reached in September 1978. The project was completed in 1980 and
continues to benefit both communities. As regards planned operations, a
number of projects under study, or contemplated, before 1974, which were
intended to benefit directly both communities, could not be pursued because of
the de facto division of the island. The Bank, together with UNDP, continues
to explore areas where cooperation appears possible, although substantial
progress may have to await a political settlement.
19.      Disbursement performance with regard to Bank operations in Cyprus is
generally satisfactory and compares favorably with experience elsewhere. The
only loans on which disbursements had been significantly slower than
anticipated were the Second Highway Project (Loan 1344-CY) and the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Water Resources Development Project (Loan 1658-CY).
This was mainly due to difficulties faced by the contractor in the former
case, and to delays in the appointment of consultants in the latter case.
These problems have, however, been resolved and implementation of both
projects is proceeding satisfactorily.
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3537-CY,
dated April 26, 1983) for the Energy Planning and Conservation Project
which was considered by the Executive Directors on May 19, 1983.



20.      The Bank continues to support activities leading to higher
productivity and exports and providing essential infrastructure iustifiable in
the context of the whole island. Within this overall context, Bank lending
has made a substantial contribution towards assisting Cyprus to recover from
the 1974 events, especially in acting as a catalyst to mobilize external
sources of long-term financing. The Government recognizes that given the
relatively high per capita income in Cyprus, Bank lending has continued so far
because of the special circumstances prevailing in the country, and can be
expected to taper off gradually in the medium-term. Bank lending is,
therefore, expected to increasingly focus on critical projects of a complex
and innovative nature that aim at removing major sectoral constraints. These
would include such projects as the presently proposed project for integrating
and transferring scarce water resources between different basins in the
country, projects to develop Cyprus' sewerage systems in order to meet the
expected shortages in sewerage services in maior urban areas that are
beginning to pose a health hazard and undermine Cyprus' important tourist
industry, and a project to promote investment in higher technology
manufacturing.
21.      IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has also invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant, a tourist
hotel, and in the Cyprus Investment and Securities Corporation, and is
currently exploring opportunities for further investment in the island. As of
September 30, 1983, original gross commitments totalled $5.9 million, of which
$2.8 million are still held by IFC. A statement of IFC investments in Cyprus
is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS
Water Resources
22.      Water resources in Cyprus are scarce and derive primarily from
rainfall which occurs mostly between November and March and averages about
4,500 hn3 per annum. Surface evaporation accounts for about 3,500 Mm3 per
annum and of the remaining usable water supply, an estimated 350 Mm3 enters
the groundwater and 600 Mm3 runs off as surface water. About 175 Mm3 of
surface water is utilized for agricultural and domestic uses, and the
remaining 425 Mm3 is lost to the sea. Most groundwater resources have been
developed and many aquifers overpumped. As development of minor aquifers is
limited and there is little scope for artificial recharge, surface water is
increasingly important as the predominant source of water for development.
The total storage capacity of reservoirs, mostly for irrigation, including the
recently completed Asprokremmos Dam near Paphos, is 116 Mm3. The
V7asilikos-Pendaskinos Project (VPP), under implementation, would add about
32 Mm3 of storage capacity. The Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, the most
recent major irrigation scheme under implementation, would provide 23 Mm3 of
storage capacity. The development of water resources in a coordinated and
integrated manner has been of primary importance to the Government which, with
IJNDP assistance, has been carrying out detailed water resources studies since
the early 1960s.



- 7-
The Domestic Water Supply Sector
23.      Water Supply and Sewerage Services.  Virtually the whole population
of Cyprus receives piped water of satisfactory quality. However, the water
supply in the capital city of Nicosia and the growing industrial center of
Larnaca has for some years been intermittent and the rapidly increasing water
demand in the major tourist center of Limassol is approaching its maximum
level. In general, all existing water supply systems are well maintained and
operated. As for sewerage services, only Nicosia has a modern sewerage system
constructed under a Bank-assisted project that was a cooperative major project
endeavor between the Greek and Turkish-Cypriot communities implemented after
the events of 1974. The Government plans to expand the sewerage system in
Nicosia and to construct new systems in the other major cities and tourist
centers.
24.      Sector Objectives.  In determining the optimal utilization of (Cyprus'
scarce water resources, the Government gives first priority to domestic water
supply and aims to develop available fresh water resources to maintain a
continuous and safe water supply. The Government has, therefore, consistently
given the domestic water supply sector a high priority as evidenced by past
and projected sector investments. At the same time, it promotes conservation
practices through such measures as the maintenance of a tariff structure
designed to discourage wasteful high consumption. Other important objectives
are the construction of additional modern sewage treatment systems that could,
as much as possible, enable the treated water to be recirculated for
irrigation and the further rationalization of the sector's institutional
framework.
25.      Sector Organization.  The responsibility for water distribution is
vested mainly in the local government, within which water boards have been
established for the major cities (Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca) and village
councils for rural communities. The water boards include representatives from
the central Government level but function rather independently of it although
their budgets and tariff proposals are subject to the approval of the Council
of Ministers. Officials from district offices that administratively belong to
the Ministry of Interior are represented in village councils and have a
significant influence on budgetary matters and investment priorities.
Sewerage boards have been established in Nicosia and Limassol and function
much like water boards.
The Agricultural Sector
26.      Agriculture in the Economy.  Agriculture continues to be an important
sector of the economy although its relative importance has declined since 1975
reflecting the growing importance of the tourist industry and the
manufacturing sector. In 1981, it contributed 11 percent of GDP, provided
25 percent of total employment, and directly and indirectly accounted for
about 25 percent of commodity exports. The Government's agricultural policies
under its first three Emergency Economic Action Plans, consisting primarily of
completion of on-going agriculture projects and expansion of land under
irrigation, have met with great success. Within an overall framework of
actions to maximize production, of improving income levels and of balancing
regional growth, the sector objectives of the Fourth Emergency Economic Action



- 8 -
PLan (FEEAP), 1982-86, are: (i) to expand irrigation; (ii) to modernize the
sector; (iii) to improve the marketing system; and (iv) to reduce price
intervention and subsidies.
27.      To meet these objectives, the FEEAP has included steps:  to address
the major constraint of Cypriot agriculture, namely, availability of
irrigation water supplies; to continue efforts to halt the extreme
fragmentation of land, successfully being carried out through the Government's
land consolidation program; and to further the Government's strategy of
promoting agricultural exports in view of the constraints imposed by a small
domestic market and the country's comparative advantage in the export of
early-season, high-value, horticultural products to markets in Europe and the
Middle East. At the same time, the Plan recognizes the need to control the
growth of agricultural price controls and subsidies which, at a level
corresponding to 28 percent of agricultural GDP by 1981, are presenting a
heavy burden on the nation's budgetary resources and distorting the real value
of agricultural imports (such as food grains and livestock feed) and of
irrigation water.
28.      Irrigation Development.  There are presently about 44,000 ha under
systematic irrigation--about 9,000 ha by surface water and about 35,000 ha by
groundwater. In addition, about 18,000 ha are under spate irrigation. No
substantial change is expected to occur in the area irrigated by groundwater
and spate irrigation. On the other hand, surface irrigation is expected to
increase to about 17,200 ha by 1987 due to three Bank-assisted schemes
cuLrrently being developed, namely, the Paphos, Vasilikos-Pendaskinos, and
Khrysokhou Irrigation Projects. Irrigation potential exists in all lower
elevation southern coastal areas between Pissouri in the west and Paralimni in
the east. The total area identified as suitable for irrigation is about
27,000 ha. The proposed project, at full development, will provide water to
irrigate about one third of this, particularly in the important potato growing
area of Kokkinokhoria.
29.      Agricultural Exports and Marketing.  Agricultural exports play an
important role in Cyprus' foreign exchange earnings (para. 26). Significant
increases in export earnings will depend largely on shifting exports to
high-value vegetables and exotic fruits (e.g., avocados and kiwis) and
increasing exportable volumes of early season vegetables and traditional items
such as potatoes, citrus fruit and table grapes. Such changes require
continued investment in water development projects, on-farm irrigation systems
and commensurate attention to applied research and extension coupled with
effective export marketing mechanisms. Since the proposed project is designed
to harness Cyprus' last substantial remaining surface water resources, it is
critical in maintaining the viability of the sector.
30.      The United Kingdom continues to be the main market for Cyprus'
horticultural products though diversification to other European countries and
the Middle East is in process. The marketing problems facing Cyprus'
horticultural exports, mainly the need for improved export marketing
mechanisms and procedures and the formulation of a long-term export marketing
strategy, are being addressed under the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project
(Loan 1988-CY). This project is well underway and after some initial delays
is now proceeding satisfactorily.



- 9 -
31.      Sector Organization.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR) is the main public institution dealing with agriculturie in
Cyprus. The MANR has six well-staffed functional departments, namely,
Agriculture, Water Development, Geological Survey, Meteorology, the Land
Consolidation Authority, and the Agricultural Research Institute. The 'MANR
has had ample experience with Bank-assisted projects and has implemented these
competently. It is, therefore, expected to likewise implement the proposed
project competently.
32.      The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) is the main agency for
agricultural research. It has undertaken programs that include introduction
of new fruit crops with commercial potential. The MANR has a nationwide
agriculture extension network under the overall responsibility of the
Department of Agriculture. In addition, the MANR provides farmer training at
various district training centers. Cyprus has a comprehensive system for
channelling financial resources into agriculture. Institutional credit for
agriculture is mainly provided by the Government through the Loan
Commissioners and the cooperative credit system, the latter mostly consisting
of village-based Cooperative Credit Societies and the Cooperative Central
Bank.
The Bank's Involvement in the Water Supply and the Agricultural Sectors
33.      Water Supply and Sewerage Sector.  The Bank's role in the sector is
to provide continued support to the Government in the realization of its
sector objectives through assistance in the optimal development and management
of Cyprus' scarce water sources and the implementation of proper sewerage
facilities. Bank involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector started
in 1971 with the Nicosia Sewerage Project (Loan 729-CY) and Famagusta Sewerage
and Drainage Project (Loan 730-CY). These projects provided for sewage
collection and disposal facilities and were well advanced until the events of
July 1974 when the Famagusta Project was suspended. The Nicosia Project was
successfully completed in 1980, and a project performance audit report (No.
3694) issued in 1981 recognized the institutional development resulting from
the project.
34.      Agricultural Sector.  The Bank has directed its lending to
agriculture primarily to the development of water resources, the sector's most
limiting physical factor. It has promoted employment and assisted improvement
in labor productivity. A more equal distribution of economic growth among
sectors has also been an objective. Bank operations have served as a catalyst
to attract development financing from other sources.
35.      The Paphos Irrigation Project, started in 1974 and completed in 1982,
provides essential irrigation infrastructure mainly for export production and
assists in financing on-farm investments. An OED project performance audit
report on the project (No. 4886), issued in December 1983, found that the
project has generally been successful in promoting agricultural development in
the project area. The ongoing Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development P'roject,
started in early 1977, emphasizes productive and social infrastructure
investments directed towards the poorest areas of Cyprus. The
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (VPP), started in 1979, will develop water
resources for irrigation and reduce the shortages of potable water in the



- 10 -
cities of Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca. The Fruit and Vegetable Export
Project of 1981 complements previous Bank investments in the sector by
initiating a set of institutional and organizational changes in the fruit and
vegetable export trade, improving the utilization of scarce water resources,
creating further employment opportunities and improving productivity. The
latest agricultural project undertaken so far, the Khrysokhou Irrigation
Project, will provide irrigation to about 2,000 ha in one of the least
developed regions of Cyprus. Construction is scheduled to start shortly. The
Bank, in cooperation with FAO, is likewise assisting in the preparation of an
Agricultural Research and Extension Project, which aims to strengthen the ARI
to further enable it to generate the technology required and to reinforce the
Department of Agriculture's extension services for the successful long-range
implementation of the Government's agricultural development program.
Water Resource Managementz Institutional Constraints
36.      Management of water resources is fragmented in both policy and
execution. Overall responsibility for determining water policy rests with the
Council of Ministers. The key ministries involved in policy-making are the
Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Interior, Finance, and
Commerce and Industry; and the Planning Bureau. The Water Development
Department (WDD) of the MANR is the principal department responsible for the
planning, design and execution of government water projects. The Ministry of
Interior has legal control over national water resources and also administers
water laws. At the district level the overall responsibility for management
of water projects, whether for irrigation or domestic supply, lies with a
District Officer who reports to the Ministry of Interior. Each government
irrigation project is administered and managed by a Water Commission composed
of the District Officer, a representative of the WDD and members elected from
the project beneficiaries. Management of domestic water supply schemes is
described in para. 25.
37.      Despite efforts to rationalize the institutional arrangements for
water resource management, there has been little progress. The Government is
aware of the inefficiencies resulting from such divisions of responsibility
and favors the establishment of an integrated national water entity, which
would be responsible for all water resources in Cyprus, their development and
their use and for the implementation, operation, and maintenance of all major
water supply schemes for both domestic water and irrigation. The creation of
the appropriate institutional structure to rationalize water resource
development will be addressed under the proposed project (para. 59).
The Project Area
38.      Principal Features.  The Southern Conveyor Project area, as shown on
the attached map, lies exclusively within the Government-controlled area of
the island. Four major administrative districts are involved, namely,
Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and Famagusta. The climate is typically
Mediterranean and the geological features of the area range from rugged
mountainous country in the west to gently undulating plateaux in the east.
Soils are normally slightly alkaline but salinity levels are generally low.
Given good management, all land classes suitable for irrigation are capable of
producing sustained high yields of a wide range of crops. The population



- 11 -
living in the project area represents about 85 percent of the population in
Cyprus (excluding the North). In addition, there are those residing at two
British sovereign base areas and large numbers of foreign tourists visit the
area (over 300,000 in 1982 and expected to increase gradually over the
years). A full range of commercial and light industrial opporttnities as well
as extensive touristic coastal developments exist in the area and continue to
expand. This expansion was particularly pronounced after the events of 1974
during which a resurgent economy experienced an upsurge in the construction of
housing and tourist facilities and the establishment of a variety of
industries. Modern infrastructure (highways, power facilities) exists
throughout the area.
39.      Water Supply and Demand Aspects.  Surface water is available from
seven catchments in the project area with a combined mean annual runoff of
140 Mm3, of which some 80 Mm3 will be available to the proposed proiect.
Groundwater sources derive from three major and about seven minor aquifers in
the area and although the water balance of several of the aquifers is
precarious, with seawater intrusion gradually extending in places, it is the
Kokkinokhoria aquifer that is in a dire situation due to overabstraction.
This has resulted in the deteriorating quality of water, and, unless
additional water is supplied from the proposed proiect, virtually all
irrigated production in this area is in jeopardy. In the case of water for
domestic use, comparisons between projected water demand and water production
capacities clearly indicate that an additional water source would have to be
commissioned by the end of the decade in order to avoid a severe water
shortage, particularly in the major urban and tourist centers, that would
provide a health hazard because of intermittent supply and have a detrimental
effect on the socio-economic and touristic development of the country.
40.      Other Aspects.  Farm holdings throughout the proiect area are
generally small. The average size of holdings in the areas likely to benefit
from irrigation is around 5 ha. Holdings are usually fragmented, averaging
five plots or more. Thus, land consolidation measures are being increasingly
adopted.
41.      There are in the area three minor operational irrigation schemes and
one major scheme (VPP), which is in the process of implementation. The
Kokkinokhoria area, a relatively large area of about 7,100 ha, is irrigated by
water from the aquifer pumped at ever increasing (and thus costlier) depths
out of some 2,500, mostly privately owned, boreholes.
42.      The area benefits from the existence of satisfactory agricultural
research, extension and credit services and facilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and History
43.      Perhaps one of the most significant constraints the Cypriot economy
now faces concerns its highly important scarce water resources. The problems
of impending water shortages, fragmented sector organization, and increasing



- 12 -
burdens of subsidies described in Part III of this report have far-reaching
consequences for many key sectors of the economy, if not properly addressed.
Given a situation of nearly total harnessing of all available ground and
surface water resources in Cyprus and after examining all possible
alternatives for meeting Cyprus' medium- and long-term water needs, the
Government was left with little choice but to undertake the proposed Southern
Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP), a major multi-purpose
irrigation and water supply project designed to tap the island's last
remaining source of surplus water in the southwest part of the island to
alleviate the water shortages in the major urban centers and tourist areas and
to provide irrigation water to the southeast areas (particularly the important
potato growing areas), whose survival is threatened by irrigation water
shortages. The Government views the project as a sine qua non to its economic
development. At the same time, it realizes that the dependence of the Cypriot
economy on the island's scarce water resources makes it imperative that these
resources are developed rationally and managed properly.
44.       The Bank has assisted in the development of the project since its
inception in March 1978 following the initiation, by the Government with
assistance from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United
IKingdom, of an overall master plan for the development of all the remaining
iwater resources of Cyprus. It has become increasingly clear since then that
the project is of an unprecedented magnitude and complexity for Cyprus
requiring very careful preparation as well as substantial amounts of
co-financing. At the same time, since it is likely to be the last and largest
of the major water resource development projects for Cyprus, it presents an
excellent opportunity for the Government and the Bank to address the critical
policy issues of water resource management and cost recovery. In this
connection, the project objectives are designed not only to help ensure the
proper implementation of the physical aspects of the project but also the
implementation of basic policy reform measures in the areas of water resource
management and cost recovery.
45.       The SCP feasibility report was completed in July 1982.  In
September/October 1982 a Bank preappraisal mission visited Cyprus to discuss
with the Government the overall concept of the project, its objectives and
phasing. An examination of all possible supply alternatives and project
phasing opportunities was conducted in order to formulate the least cost
phasing solution towards achieving the project objectives. Subsequently, the
appraisal of the project by the Bank took place in April/May 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington from January 9-13, 1984 with a Government
delegation led by Dr. Andreas Papasolomontos, Director General of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development;
]?hase I" (No. 4756-CY), dated February 9, 1984 is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and the project are
mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the
project area is attached.
SCP (At Full Development). Objectives and Description
46.       The SCP, when fully developed, will provide about 70 Mm3 of water
per annum for domestic water supply and irrigation. This is projected to be
sufficient to fully cover domestic water demand and partly irrigation water



- 13 -
demand up to at least the year 2010. The domestic water demand at present
exceeds the production capacity and has resulted in restrictions and
intermittent supply. This matter would be further aggravated if no actions
were taken and could seriously affect industrial and tourist development.
Irrigation water will primarily be required in Kokkinokhoria, where continued
pumping of the aquifer would totally dissipate usable water resources before
the end of the decade. Intrusion of salt water into the aquifer would begin
even before that time, thus permanently obliterating for agricultural use one
of Cyprus' largest and most valuable agricultural areas that now produces a
substantial portion of its high-value horticultural export products.
Irrigation water will also be required to expand irrigated agriculture in
other areas along the southern coast of the island, where the present level of
production from rainfed agriculture is extremely low.
47.      The full SCP project objectives are;  (a)  to secure a safe domestic
water supply to the four major population areas (Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca,
and Famagusta), which combined represent 72 percent (435,000) of the
population and which is projected to increase to 80 percent (589,000) by 2010
(as is presently the case, water will continue to be provided to the
Turkish-Cypriot communities in Nicosia and Famagusta); (b) to provide
irrigation water to first maintain present agricultural production in
Kokkinokhoria in an area of 5,125 ha and to subsequently expand irrigated
agriculture in four other areas totalling about 3,000 ha; and (c) to
implement policies and take institutional measures in order to improve overall
cost recovery, further enhance the efficient use of domestic and irrigation
water, and establish an integrated institutional framework to ensure the
rational management of water resources.
48.      The full SCP project components are as follows;
(a)  Kouris Dam and Reservoir.  A 103-meter high earthfill dam (the
largest ever to be constructed in Cyprus), and a reservoir with a
gross storage capacity of 115 Mm3.
(b) Main Conveyor. A 110-km long pressurized underground pipeline
connecting the Kouris and Akhna reservoirs, including several branch
pipelines for domestic water supply along the way.
(c) Akhna Terminal Reservoir. A 16-meter high dam and a reservoir with a
5.8 Mm3 gross storage capacity that would be required to balance
the water supplies from the Kouris dam with the irrigation demand of
the Kokkinokhoria area. During the peak irrigation demand in the
spring (March-May), water will be supplied from the conveyor and
Akhna reservoir simultaneously while during autumn and winter,
irrigation demand will be well below conveyor capacity and the
reservoir can then be refilled.
(d) Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (VPP) Connection. A 2-km long pipeline
from the main conveyor to the VPP to supplement the water demand that
cannot be covered under the VPP and to increase operational
flexibility through the integration of the VPP and SCP systems.,



- 14 -
(e) Dhiarizos Diversion. A 16-km. long pressurized pipeline and tunnel
mainly to convey water from the Dhiarizos and Khapotami rivers to the
Kouris reservoir.
(f) Tertiary Sewage Treatment Plant at Limassol. A source for additional
water supply for irrigation.
(g) Pressurized Irrigation Distribution Networks. For about 8,125 ha.
(h) Domestic Water Supply Works. For the provision of water supply to
urban (primarily the main cities of Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca)
and rural areas; consists of water treatment works at Limassol and
Tersephanou; extension of the water treatment plant at Khirokitia;
river aquifer developments at the Yermasoya and Tremithios riverbeds;
pumping stations; and storage tanks.
(i) Central Control System. To be operated jointly with VPP for
monitoring and control of water levels, production, allocation and
distribution.
(j) Project Administration Facilities. Includes office buildings,
workshops, equipment and vehicles.
(k) Institutional Restructuring. Study to review the existing
organization and management of water resources and to determine and
eventually establish an appropriate structure for a national water
entity.
Full Project Cost
4s9.     The full SCP requires an implementation period of about ten years.
The cost of the full project, estimated at 1983 prices, including physical
c:ontingencies, is $254 million of which $86 million represents local cost and
$168 million foreign cost.
Project Phasing
50.      Because of the project's large size, complexity and long timeframe
Eor completion, its implementation in phases was considered at the instigation
of the Bank. In this context, a number of alternatives were considered with a
view towards addressing both the urgency of early implementation and the need
to keep investments within bounds, while maximizing overall economic benefits.
51.      Detailed technical and economic evaluation of possible alternatives,
particularly of Phase I, were undertaken (details in paras. 5.14-5.21 of the
Staff Appraisal Report). Among the alternatives considered were construction
of diversion structures instead of a dam in Phase I, phasing of the
construction of the dam, and phasing of the construction of the conveyor. It
was eventually found and agreed between the Government and the Bank that the
least-cost solution would be to execute the SCP in two phases. Phase I, which



- 15 -
is the subject of the proposed Bank loan, would be executed over the six-year
period 1984-1989, while most of the remaining works would be included in Phase
II and be executed over the five-year period 1988-1992, with an overlap of two
years with Phase I beginning with the construction of the Dhiarizos diversion
in 1988.
SCP Phase I. Objectives and Description
52.      The objectives of Phase I would bez  (a)  to cover domestic water
demand up to the year 1992 (the assumption being that by the year 1992 the
second phase of the project will be completed to provide additional supply of
water); (b) to cover urgent irrigation needs to maintain present production
in the area of Kokkinokhoria, which is considered of great importance to the
sector and the economy as a whole; and (c) to establish an effective
organization for both the SCP and the ongoing VPP and to implement a national
policy for determining the domestic water tariffs as well as irrigation water
charges.
53.      Phase I components include those listed in para. 48, items (a), (b),
(c), (d), (i), (j) and (k). In addition, pressurized irrigation distribution
networks (item (g)) will be provided at Kokkinokhoria, covering a gross area
of 5,125 ha. Domestic water supply works would include most of the items
indicated in item (h) with the exception basically of the water treatment
plants at Limassol and Tersiphanou and further extension of rural water supply
works.
54.      Land consolidation will be applied only in the Larnaca district on an
area of about 1,800 ha. Land acquisition will be required for the
construction of the Kouris dam, main conveyor, Akhna dam, and the
Kokkinokhoria irrigation networks. Compensation for resettlement will be paid
to the inhabitants of the small village of Khalassa (55 households) which will
be inundated by the Kouris reservoir. The Government has already identified a
resettlement area and will provide training of affected farmers for employment
in other sectors. Plans for the development of the resettlement site and for
about 55 houses have already been designed and undertaken in close
consultation with the villagers. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
people of the Khalassa village will be resettled and adequately compensated
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.10) and that the Government will acquire all other
lands necessary for purposes related to the project, not later than
December 31, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
SCP Phase I Project Costs and Financing
55.      The total cost of Phase I of the SCP exclusive of taxes and duties
from which goods and services destined for public projects are exempt, is
estimated at $202.3 million in 1984 prices. Physical contingencies are
estimated at $19.3 million and price contingencies at $30.5 million. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at $138 million or about 68 percent of
the total costs. Unit costs were based on detailed cost analysis and
information obtained of similar works recently tendered in Cyprus. A factor
of 10-15 percent was used to calculate physical contingencies for various
civil works components depending upon the level of design and the complexity
of construction works. Price contingency estimates assume an increase in



- 16 -
local currency costs of 6 percent per annum (based on expected domestic
inflation) and an increase in foreign exchange costs of 8 percent in 1983,
7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent per annum thereafter.  It
is expected that about 444 manmonths of expatriate consultants and 288
manmonths of local consultants will be required for the project. The average
cost of expatriate consultants' services is estimated at $8,250 per manmonth
inclusive of salaries, fees, overhead, international travel and subsistence.
The average cost of local consultants' services is estimated at $3,000 per
manmonth.
56.      The proposed Bank loan of $27.0 million equivalent will finance about
20 percent of foreign exchange costs or about 13 percent of total project
costs. The Government of Cyprus is expected to provide about $64 million to
finance 100 percent of the local project costs. The Government has taken the
necessary steps to secure financing for the large remaining foreign exchange
financing gap of $111 million and, at its request, the Bank assisted in this
effort. As a result, expressions of interest to participate in financing the
project were received from a large number of official and commercial sources.
A co-financiers' meeting took place before negotiations of the Bank loan that
enabled the Government to formulate a reasonably firm financing plan. The
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development and the European Investment Bank
(EIB) have indicated that they would be prepared to consider providing $10.0
million and $28.0 million respectively, to the project. It is expected that
the Bank and EIB loans would be utilized to provide joint financing for the
Kouris dam. In addition, the Bank loan would also finance the Akhna
reservoir, consultant services and office equipment. The Government plans to
finance the remaining foreign exchange gap of about $73.0 million mainly
through suppliers' credits for which they have received substantial
indications of firm interest from several sources. It is estimated that
export credits would cover all but a relatively small amount ($5 million) of
the remaining gap. If necessary, this small remaining amount would be readily
covered through the Government's regular borrowings from the international
financial markets. Signing of a loan with the Kuwait Fund and signing and
effectiveness of a co-financiers' agreement for $28.0 million (corresponding
to the likely participation of EIB), are conditions of-effectiveness of the
Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). Agreement was also reached at
negotiations that the Government will conclude co-financing agreements,
including suppliers' credits, amounting to about $40.0 million by December 31,
1984 and for the remaining financing gap by June 30, 1986 (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01). These dates were selected so as to ensure timely availability
of funds for project execution.
SCP Project Organization and Implementation
57.      It is presently envisioned that Phase I of the project would be
implemented over a six-year period starting from June 1984. For the Kouris
dam, construction is expected to begin in September 1984 and be completed by
April 1989. The impounding of the dam would commence during the 1987/88 wet
season. The panel of experts designated by the Government to review the plans
and designs and provide guidance during the construction of the VPP dams was
also designated for the Kouris dam. Agreement was reached with the Government
that this panel will be retained to further ensure safety of the dam through
periodic inspections during its construction and beyond (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05). Construction of the main conveyor and the Kokkinokhoria



- 17 -
irrigation systems will begin in October 1984 and will also be completed by
April 1989. All other minor works will be constructed before that date.
Final design and tender documents for the Kouris dam have been prepared by the
consultants, SOGREAH (France), and approved by the Government and the Bank.
The tender for the construction of the dam has been issued and award is
expected in May 1984. Final design and tender documents for the main
conveyor, Akhna reservoir, Kokkinokhoria irrigation systems, and connection of
main conveyor with the VPP scheme have been prepared by the WDD in
collaboration with Sir William Halcrow and Partners Consultants (UK). Tenders
will be issued in March 1984 and contracts are expected to be awarded in
August 1984.
58.      Two project managers, one for the Kouris dam and the other for the
main conveyor and the Kokkinokhoria Irrigation scheme will be recruited, to
assist the Government in the coordination of activities related to the
implementation of the project. These posts have been advertised and
recruitment is expected to take place shortly. Both managers will be retained
for a period after completion of works to assist in the commissioning, initial
operation, and management of the project. It is estimated that their services
would entail about 144 manmonths. The Government would also recruit one
resident engineer and two assistant engineers for the supervision of
construction of the Kouris dam and one resident engineer and three assistant
engineers for the supervision of the main conveyor, Akhna dam, and irrigation
networks at Kokkinokhoria for a total of about 288 manmonths of services.
Finally, provision has been made for consultant services (about 12 manmonths)
for the preparation of design and tender documents for Phase II and for
short-term specialists who may be required to solve particular technical
problems. Agreement was reached during negotiations that consultants
satisfactory to the Bank will be appointed by the Government upon commencing
of works and for the entire implementation period (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04 and Schedule 5).
59.      The Government would like to establish a national water entity, which
will be responsible for all water resources, their development and use i.n
Cyprus and for the implementation, operation, and maintenance of all water
schemes. Because legislative action would be required in this regard, it may
take some time before such an entity would be established.  During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will, by July 31,
1984, undertake a study to review the existing organization and management of
water resources and determine the structure of the national water entity;
exchange views with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of such study
and on draft instruments required for the establishment of the entity not
later than June 30, 1985; and take all necessary measures for the
establishment of the entity not later than December 31, 1985 (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03). During negotiations, agreement was also reached on draft Terms
of Reference for the study.
60.      In the meantime, intermediate organizational arrangements are
proposed for the project, which, at a later stage, could readily be integrated
into the proposed national water entity. For the implementation of Phase I of
the SCP it was agreed at negotiations that a separate Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), headed by the Project Director assisted by two Project Managers
and adequately staffed and supported by consultants, will be established



- 18 -
within the Water Development Department (WDD) of the MANR. The PIU will have
overall responsibility for all construction works. Moreover, in order to
coordinate the activities of the PIU with other Government agencies involved
in the implementation of the project it was agreed that a high level Project
Policy and Coordination Committee (PPCC) will be set up under the chairmanship
of the Director General of the MANR.  In addition, it was also agreed at
negotiations that two Project Advisory Committees (PAC) will be established to
advise the Project Director on domestic water supply and irrigation matters.
lhis system of coordinating and advisory committees is similar to those
functioning effectively under previous Bank-assisted irrigation projects in
Cyprus. It was agreed that the PIU, PPCC, and PAC will be established not
later than July 31, 1984. However, in view of their importance to project
implementation, the Government has begun to take the necessary actions
preparatory to the expeditious establishment of these entities.
61.      For the operation and maintenance of the project after completion of
its construction, it was agreed that a Project Operation Unit (POU) within WDD
would be established (by June 30, 1985) which will be responsible for both the
VTPP and SCP. Such a unit would be already functioning by the time the VPP
would be completed, and would be gradually strengthened for the later
incorporation of the SCP. The POU would also be responsible for all VPP and
SCP works, including billing and collection of irrigation and bulk water
charges and for establishing and keeping a separate accounting system. The
Project Director assisted by a deputy will be in charge of the POU.  The PPCC
and PAC will continue to function during the operation stage, but the PPCC
will have the additional responsibility of rationalizing water allocations and
charges and ensuring that Government funds are available in a timely manner
for the operation and maintenance of the system. Agreement on the
establishment of the above-described organizational arrangements for the
implementation and operation of the project was reached at negotiations (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 and Schedule 5).
62.      Protection of Kokkinokhoria Aquifer.  The future protection of the
overexploited Kokkinokhoria aquifer requires that adequate measures must be
taken by the Government to restrict groundwater extraction to the aquifer's
safe average yield. Otherwise, the aquifer would be irreversibly damaged.
Thus, during the period when water from SCP is not yet available, the aquifer
will continue to be monitored closely and the Government would, in
consultation with the Bank and with the assistance of a groundwater specialist
to be provided by the Bank, take measures (by December 31, 1985) to ensure
protection of the aquifer. These measures will include the establishment of
safety thresholds beyond which saltwater intrusion is likely to endanger the
aquifer and the drawing up of safeguard measures and contingency plans to be
put into immediate effect in the event that there is any indication that
saltwater intrusion is approaching the safety thresholds referred to above.
Strict enforcement of the law will take place once it becomes evident that
saltwater intrusion is imminent. Furthermore, during negotiations agreement
was reached with the Government that it would take specific measures to keep
groundwater extraction within safe limits at all times once SCP water is made
available to the area (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09). This would include
strict enforcement of existing legislation to limit the number of boreholes
and their extraction to prescribed maxima; selected licensing and metering of



- 19 -
boreholes following studies by WDD before project completion to determine the
number, location, and extraction rates of boreholes in the Kokkinokhorial area;
arnd division of the area into irrigation divisions wherein farmers in each
division will be charged a uniform volumetric water rate to cover the charges
for SCP water and the pumping cost of groundwater.
63.      Billing and Collection.  Irrigation and domestic water supply charges
are based on water consumption, and WDD's customers (Water Boards or Village
Councils for domestic water and District Officers for Irrigation) are billed
on a rotating basis every two months. Collection performance by WDD, however,
needs to be improved. As of December 31, 1982, accounts receivable from Water
Boards amounted to about 4 months of billing, while those from irrigation
water consumers amounted to about 5 months of billing. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the necessary measures will be taken to ensure
payment of irrigation and domestic water bills within 90 days of their
issuance by WDD (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
64.      Accounting and Auditing.  The present cost accounting system provides
information on annual maintenance performed for each irrigation and domestic
water supply scheme. However, a more detailed cost breakdown would be
required in order to provide a more useful management tool. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that separate accounts will be kept for each
scheme by WDD in such detail as to enable assessment of whether the
requirements set forth in the maintenance, billing and collection programs,
and in the debt service charges are met. Separate accounts for the SCP would
be kept by WDD. These would be audited annually by the office of the Auditor
General of the Ministry of Finance, whose accounting and auditing procedures
are satisfactory to the bank. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
not later than six months after the closing date of the Cypriot fiscal year
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
65.      Monitoring and Evaluation.  This activity would be carried out by a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be established within the MANR by January 1,
1985 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). It would keep routine records on project
actions, programs, budgets, and expenditures, and would also collect and
analyze technical and financial data to evaluate the effects of the project
and follow its progress. It would submit periodic progress reports to the
Bank and other concerned financing agencies through the MANR as well as a
final report upon completion of the project which would include an ex-post
economic and technical evaluation of the project as it was actually
implemented.
Marketing
66.      Potatoes constitute the project's major export commodity but the
project will not generate any increment relative to the present situation. Mo
potato marketing problems are, therefore, expected to arise. Furthermore, the
Cyprus Potato Marketing Board efficiently and effectively organizes and
coordinates all production and exports of potatoes. At the same time, the
project's estimated incremental export volume of winter vegetables of between
4,000 and 5,000 tons is very small measured against present or projected
imports into the European and Middle Eastern markets. Thus, no market
absorption problems are expected to arise for the project's incremental



- 20 -
production. The main marketing problem of export coordination and strategy
concerning fruit and vegetable marketing is being addressed under the Fruit
and Vegetable Export Project (Loan 1988-CY) whose implementation is underway
and proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.      Supply and civil works contracts associated with the project
components to be financed by the Bank, namely the Kouris dam, Akhna reservoir,
the consultants services and office equipment are expected to be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Domestic preference will apply to goods manufactured
locally. Contracts exceeding $350,000 for equipment and $1.0 million for
civil works will be subject to ICB, and bidding documents will be sent to the
Bank for prior review. For other contracts, local competitive bidding will be
acceptable. Procurement of items financed by other co-financiers will be in
accordance with the respective co-financiers' procurement procedures.
68.      The proposed Bank loan of $27.0 million would be disbursed over a
seven-year period against 26 and 64 percent respectively of the expenditures
for the civil works for the Kouris dam and the Akhna reservoir, 100 percent of
total expenditures for expatriate consultant services, and 95 percent of
expenditures for office equipment (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).
Cost Recovery
69.      It is a major objective of the project to establish and gradually
implement a cost recovery policy for both domestic and irrigation water that
aims at maximizing rational use of SCP and non-SCP water and decreases the
burden of subsidies on the Government's financial resources. Irrigation
charges and domestic water supply tariffs based on this underlying principle
were formulated as described in the following paragraphs.
70.      Domestic Water Tariffs.  The Government's cost recovery policy for
domestic water supply requires full cost recovery of operations and
maintenance (O&M) costs and capital costs. The Government has consistently
applied this policy to all its water supply systems. Against this background,
the water tariff principles proposed under the project are aimed basically to
ensure the continued application of the Government's domestic water cost
recovery policy. Thus, during negotiations, agreement was reached that water
tariffs would be set according to the following principles (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05); (i) for both project area and non-project area domestic water
supply schemes, the Government would review annually the bulk water tariffs to
ensure that they are maintained at a level which would cover at least the full
O&M costs including appropriate contingencies to cover working capital
requirements plus debt service or depreciation, whichever is higher. This
review will also take into consideration the long run marginal cost of
providing bulk water. The debt service is defined as the sum of amortization
of and interest on debt and Government advances, the latter to be amortized
over 40 years at 9 percent interest per annum; and (ii) Government would
ensure that the Water Boards and Village Councils adjust regularly their
retail water tariffs according to the same cost recovery policy. In applying
these principles above, the existing and proposed water supply systems for the



- 21 -
Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and Famagusta areas, including those constructed
under the SCP and the VPP (which will be interconnected), would be considered
as one integrated operational unit for which a unified bulk water tariff will
be applied. The remaining systems, which represent less than 5 percent of the
total supplies of bulk water, would continue to have their own individual
tariffs.
71.      Irrigation Charges.  The Government's Waterworks Law of 1929 contains
the basic legislation on irrigation water use and charges. According to this
law, irrigation water charges shall not be more than 40 percent of the
weighted average unit cost of water. In special cases, taking into
consideration the heavy expenditure on any waterworks or special economic,
technical and social conditions prevailing in the project area, the aforesaid
rate may be increased up to 65 percent. As this law provides sufficient scope
for reasonable degrees of cost recovery for all irrigation projects in Cyprus,
the irrigation water charges and cost recovery principles described in the
succeeding paragraphs have been formulated within the context of existing
legislation. A distinction has been made between projects which are special
cases under the definition of the law and those that are not. The special
cases include the SCP and other large non-SCP Bank-assisted projects in
various stages of implementation of which there are three, namely, the Paphos,
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos, and Khrysokhou Irrigation Projects. The non-special
cases are ten small operational schemes in various parts of the country.
72.      SCP irrigation water will be needed primarily in the Kokkinokhoria
area where the average private cost of pumping water from the aquifer is
estimated at about C£O.12/m3 in 1983 prices. On the other hand, the cost of
SCP irrigation water is estimated to be C£O.28/m3 (1983 prices). Analysis
of farm budgets of typical farm types in the area indicated that a water
charge for SCP water of C£O.18/m3 is reasonable. The proposed charge
represents an overall cost recovery index of 65 percent, which corresponds to
the legal maximum. The same rate would apply to the restricted amounts of
groundwater (1.5 Mm3 per annum) which will continue to be extracted from the
aquifer. In order to allow farmers, particularly those who have presently low
private pumping costs, to adapt their field distribution systems and cropping
patterns to the proposed SCP irrigation charge, the full increase in
irrigation charges would be applied gradually over a period of three years
upon first delivery of SCP water to the project area (1989). Agreement was
reached during negotiations that (i) the Government would undertake the
appropriate studies to determine the proposed water charges for the 1989
season and communicate these to the Bank for its review no later than
December 31, 1988; and (ii) upon the availability of SCP irrigation water, an
irrigation water charge would be collected from project beneficiaries which
shall apply equally to surface water and groundwater, at levels sufficient to
recover the weighted average of the full unit cost of groundwater and of a
percentage of the unit cost (O&M plus capital cost of water distributed for
the purpose of irrigation in the project areas, discounted at 9 percent per
annum over 40 years) of surface water, which percentage shall be 45, 55 and
65 percent (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 (a)) in the first, second, third and
consecutive years respectively.
73.      With regard to the three large-scale non-SCP irrigation projects
mentioned in para. 71 above, only the Paphos project has been completed and



- 22 -
had begun partial operations in 1983. VPP is under construction, while
construction of Khrysokhou commenced in early 1984; both are expected to be
completed by 1988. All three are designed to have sophisticated farm delivery
systems. The weighted average unit cost of these projects, discounted at 9
percent per annum over 40 years, is about CEO.125/m3 in 1983 prices. In
1983 the average water charge in Paphos, the only large-scale non-SCP scheme
presently in operation, was CE0.025/m3, corresponding to an overall cost
recovery of about 24 percent. It was agreed that water charges for these
three schemes should be set at a level so as to recover on average, by the
sixth year of operation of any of these schemes, 65 percent of the weighted
average unit cost (O&M plus capital cost discounted at 9 percent over 40
years) of all water sold in such scheme and its predecessor(s), it being
understood that charge increases during the first, second, third, fourth and
fifth years would correspond to 30, 40, 45, 50 and 60 percent of the weighted
average unit cost (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 (b)). The cost recovery
covenants in the earlier Loan Agreements pertaining to the three large-scale
non-SCP irrigation projects were amended accordingly. The six year period
takes into consideration the fact that unlike the SCP project area, the areas
serviced by the three ongoing major irrigation projects are undergoing
transition from dry-land farming to irrigated crop production that calls for
considerable adjustments by the farmers in those areas. The areas also differ
from the SCP project area in that a significant portion of each of them
includes slowly maturing tree crops. Furthermore, since the Paphos Irrigation
Project is already in its first year of operation, farmers in the area would
have already taken production decisions (e.g. investments in perennial crop
planting) that cannot realistically be expected to be reversed in the short
term. Within these provisions, Government can continue to have different
rates for the various individual schemes. The proposed irrigation charge
would amount to about C£0.080/m3 (1983 prices), six years after completion
of the last project in this category in 1994. While this would correspond to
a real rate increase of 150 percent, it is less than half the charge proposed
for SCP water. Crop and farm budget studies indicate that, for the areas
involved, the proposed cost recovery level is feasible.
74.      Finally, the ten small operating non-SCP irrigation schemes are
non-special cases under the meaning of the law. They are small, simple
systems that were mostly financed by the Government and the farmers
themselves, many of which were designed specifically to assist in alleviating
rural poverty, particularly following the events of 1974. The maximum legal
water charge for these schemes cannot, therefore, exceed the 40 percent level
required by law. The weighted average unit cost of these projects, discounted
at 9 percent per annum over 40 years, is about CE0.097/m3. In 1983, the
weighted average water charge in these schemes was about CE0.024/m3,
corresponding to an overall cost recovery of about 25 percent. This charge,
however, has been the result of two consecutive years of significant rate
increases by the Government representing a 129 percent total increase over
only a two-year period. The Government would like to bring cost recovery
levels to the 40 percent maximum. However, in view of the already large rate
increases in recent years, movement towards this maximum can only be
realistically achieved at a gradual pace. Thus, it was agreed at negotiations
that water charges for these schemes should be set at a level so as to recover
by 1984, 1985 and 1986, 28, 35 and 40 percent respectively of their weighted
average unit cost (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 (b)).



- 23 -
75.      Agreement was also reached during negotiations that;  (i)  the
Government would undertake the appropriate studies to determine the proposed
water charges for these schemes and communicate its proposal for the Bank's
review no later than December 31, 1984; and (ii) all water charges for both
SCP and non-SCP schemes will be reviewed annually before the end of the fiscal
year and adjusted as necessary by March of the following year, taking into
account the Bank's comments (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 (e)).
Macroeconomic Impact
76.      The total cost of the project, while of an unprecedented magnitude
for Cyprus, is not expected to unduly strain the budget nor the balance of
payments. The internal budget requirement over the six-year construction
period is less than what has already been allocated for the project in the
current Five-Year Plan and represents only about 2 percent of projected
revenues for the period. External borrowings associated with the project,
while likely to increase the debt service burden by about 10 percent, will be
more than covered by revenues from potato export mainly from the Kokkinokhoria
area. The project's impact on domestic demand for labor and for goods and
services as well as its impact on wages and prices have also been examined and
found not to be significant.
Environmental Impact
77.      The construction of the Kouris dam will not have any serious negative
effect on the environment. On the contrary, the artificial lake will provide
an attraction to people and could be developed to an important recreation
center. There are no archeological monuments in the area which would be
covered with water. The inhabitants of the few village houses that will be
submerged will be compensated for their loss (para. 54). Increase of water
supply implies increased sewage disposal which could pose a problem. However,
this matter will be handled through the establishment of modern sewerage
facilities, particularly in the main urban and tourist centers (para. 23). A
Bank-assisted project for the construction of modern sewerage and drainage
systems for the major urban and tourist centers of Limassol is presently under
consideration.
Project Justification and Benefits
78.      An analysis of the alternative methods for meeting the future water
supply needs of Cyprus indicates that the project constitutes the optimal
solution and least-cost alternative. The present cost of seawater
desalinization is of a magnitude that effectively rules it out as a viable
option. Reallocation of irrigation water in the VPP to domestic uses would
not materially relieve the domestic water shortage. Furthermore, irrigation
in VPP is economically justified, apart from the fact that such reallocation
would be unacceptable to VPP beneficiaries on social and political grounds.
The alternative of abolishing irrigation in the Kokkinokhoria area would be
costly in terms of the net agricultural value added foregone, plus the
conveyance costs of domestic water which would, nevertheless, still be
required. The project's irrigation aspect will permit continuation of
irrigated agriculture in the Kokkinokhoria areas and thus, prevent the



- 24 -
progressive elimination of irrigated crop production in one of the island's
most productive agricultural areas. Without the project, the net value of
crop production in the project would fall drastically because the area would
revert to rainfed cereal production.
79.      The total number of direct beneficiaries in the Kokkinokhoria area is
about 2,000 families or 10,000 persons. About 85 percent of these depend on
the project in the sense that without it they would not be able to continue
irrigated crop production; 15 percent will benefit from the improved
distribution system in areas directly adjoining that of the former category.
With regard to domestic water supply, the project will benefit by 1990 about
495,000 inhabitants or about 76 percent of the total Greek Cypriot population
and the Turkish Cypriot population of Nicosia.
80.      The implementation of the proposed irrigation water charges is
expected to increase Government revenues while decreasing the rate of
subsidies to public schemes. It would further induce water conservation
jpractices, and cause farmers to gradually shift production patterns towards
crops that would increase returns to water, hence enhancing overall sector
efficiency.
81.      Institutional arrangements proposed in the project (paras. 59 to 61)
constitute major steps towards achieving a high degree of integration of
different sources of supply and of storage reservoirs. This will make
possible the formulation of a set of operating rules for the entire system
which would help to reduce the marginal cost of water development as well as
the average cost of operating the system. The formulation and continued
refinement of such a set of operating rules for the project area will be the
core of water planning and conservation.
82.      Economic Rate of Return.  Both the Kouris dam and the conveyor will
be built to full capacity in Phase I. Because of considerable sunk costs, the
marginal net benefits of the full project will be substantially above those of
the first phase only. Also, from a water use point of view, the first phase
cannot be considered in isolation from the full SCP. Without a second phase,
irrigation supplies to the Kokkinokhoria area would have to be gradually
curtailed starting in the third year following completion of the first phase
because of increasing domestic water demand, and would be completely
eliminated about a decade thereafter. Such scenario would be entirely
inconsistent with the objectives and investment decisions of the proposed
SCP.  Consequently, as the economics of the first phase cannot be meaningfully
determined, only the economic rate of return of the full project has been
estimated. This estimated economic rate of return is about 13 percent.
Sensitivity analysis showed that costs could increase by 20 percent and
benefits lag by two years before the ERR decreases to about 9.3 percent.
Switching values for key variables have been calculated which indicate that a
5 percent decrease in net benefits or an increase of about 10 percent in
investment costs would cause the economic rate of return to equal the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Cyprus (12 percent).
Project Risks
83.      The project has been well prepared and the availability of detailed
designs makes it possible to proceed early with project execution. There are
no unusual technical risks associated with the project, and those which are



- 25 -
normally related to benefits, costs, and development period have been taken
into account in the sensitivity analyses. There are no risks associated with
land acquisition and resettlement of farmers (para. 54). Assuming that
impoundment of the dam will start during the 1987-88 wet season, the
probability of meeting all yearly demands in Phase I is estimated at 95
percent. It was agreed at negotiations that the Government would carry out
studies under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to determine the
measures to be taken in the event of water shortages (Loan Agreement, Part G3,
Schedule 2). Measures to be considered include recharging of the aquifers
during surplus water periods and mining of the aquifers during deficit
periods. The major risk to the project would arise only if the Phase II were
not implemented. Without Phase II, irrigation supplies would have to be
gradually curtailed and even eliminated because of increasing domestic water
demand. This risk is, however, unlikely to be faced since the Government
considers the implementation of the full project critical to the country's
economic well being. Furthermore, it has given further assurances during
negotiations that it will, not later than June 30, 1984, prepare a schedule
and plan for the development of Phase II of the SCP and will start
construction under Phase II not later than January 1, 1988 (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01 (b)).
84.      Finally, the risk that overpumping of the Kokkinokhoria aquifer could
result in irreversible damage to the aquifer will be substantially minimized
through the implementation of measures described in para. 62.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are given in Section III of
Annex III. Signing of a loan agreement with the Kuwait Fund and signing and
effectiveness of a co-financiers' agreement for $28.0 million (corresponding
to the likely participation of EIB), are special conditions of effectiveness
of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). Through Article V of the
Loan Agreement, the requirements of Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of this Loan
Agreement are made applicable to the Loan Agreements between Cyprus and the
Bank on the Paphos Irrigation, Vasilikos-Pendaskinos and Khrysokhou Irrigation
Projects.-
86.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
87.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 10, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                     (Page 1 of 5)
T A B L E 3A
CYPRUS                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1960 /b     197b  RECENT   b           MIDDLE INCOME               INDUSTRIAL
196=    197W.0-  ESTIMATE/              EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
AREA (tHOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                   9.3         9.3          9.3
AGRICULTURAL                            5.5         5.3          5.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        ..           ..      3740.0              2453.6                   11112.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTIOli PER CWPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       795.0       1335.0       2044.0              1580.8                    7500.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MIU-YEAR (TNOUSANDS)       573.0       604.0        623.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          35.6        40.8         46.9                47.8                      78.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 0.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   0.9
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          61.9        65.3         67.0                82.0                     139.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             104.2        115.0        118.1               157.2                     514.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           36.7         31.0         25.8                31.9                      22.4
15-64 YRS                           57.4         59.0         64.2               60.9                       66.0
65 AND ABOVE                         5.9         10.0         10.1                 7.2                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.5         0.5/c        0.3/c               1.6                       0.8
URBAN                                 3.3         1.9          1.6                 3.4                       1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           25.8        19.7         19.4                25.0                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           10.5         9.8          9.0                 9.1                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.8         1.3          1.1                 1.7                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 OF HARRIED WOMEN)             ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         64.0         91.U        103.0               108.4                     112.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       102.0        122.0        128.0               129.6                     134.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             74.0        88.0         96.0                92.3                      99.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          30.0         42.0         51.0/d              34.6                      61.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             1.7         1.7          0.9                10.4                       0.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          68.7        70.9         72.5                67.2                      74.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         29.9         29.4         19.5                7,1.4                     10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               26.2         95.0         95.0/e
URBAN                               67.5        100.0         94.07.
RURAL                                 7.1        92.0         96.0/.e
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        95.0         95.0/e
URBAN                                 ..        100.0         94.0/e
RURAL                                  ..        92.0         95.07..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1470.0       1230.0       1110.0              1094.8                     553.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             1180.0/f      580.0        360.0               762.5                     182.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              220.0        180.0        190.U/d             334.0                     119.8
URBAN                              230.0/f      240.0        260.07W            216.0                      143.2
RURAL                             3320.07W    3110.0        4780.07.                        
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        16.2         16.7/e              20.0                      17.7
BDUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.0           ..
URBAN                                4.0           ..
RURAL                                3.9           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.5          ..
URBAN                                 1.3         1.0/g&
RURAL                                 1.6          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               43.1           ..
URBAN                               90.4           ..
RURAL                               21.5           ..



- 27 -                                      A X I.
(Page 2 of 5)
T A B L E 3A
CYPRUS                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /.
MOST                      (MDST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b  RECENT  /b        MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIAL
1960-b      1970-  ESTIMATE-              EUROPE             MARRET ECONCtIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                  102.0        88.0/h       84.0/h            102.2                    101.5
MALE                   103.0        87.07W       83.07W            107.2                    103.3
FEMALE                 100.0        88.07oT     85.07oi             97.9                    103.3
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   47.0        54.0/h       66.0/h             56.5                     89.2
MALE                    55.0        57.07o      66.07oT             63.4                     84.5
FEMALE                  39.0        52.07W       66.07W             48.9                     86.0
VOCATIONAL (7 OF SECONDARY)           3.5        10.5/h       12.2/h             22.4                     18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0        30.0/h      22.0/h              24.7                     20.2
SECONDARY                          24.0        21.07iW      16.07b             22.1                     14.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)              75.9        85.0         89.0               69.7                     98.9
CONSUIFrION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          47.6        91.9        126.3/i             52.9                    356.5
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        148.3       276.5       504.8               165.5                   1085.4
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             2.8        81.1        241.9              124.2                    449.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            123.9       112.6        108.6               96.3                    331.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       8.4        10.1          ..                 2.9                      3.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           237.0       254.0       282.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   33.3        33.6        35.0                34.5                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              42.0        38.6        28.6                40.7                      6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 27.1        27.7        26.7                23.4                     37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.4        42.0        45.2                42.0                     45.5
MALE                               56.1        56.4         58.9               55.2                     59.0
FEMALE                             27.2        27.9         31.6               29.1                     32.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0         1.0          0.8                0.9                      0.8
INCGE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        12.1/-
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        39.17i         *-                 *-                     43.1
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          7.971        ..                 ..                      5.5
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        19.67j        ..                  ..                     16.5
POVERTY TAIET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..       376.7/d
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       746. 7/d
RURAL                                ..          ..       512.77;w            409.0.
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (E)
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962;
/g 1972; /h EXcluding Turkish schools; /i 1978; /M 1966, urban only.
May 1983



-28 -
ANNEX I
FIIISOF itUL IIOt       M                                                     (Page  3  of  5)
hte  ltaheogh tho d-t  -n  dra-  tetsat-          generally judged the tot  ntio  t        .ntad retare,i  stoad elta be note  tha  tOhy way no  be   erstnat
nrtyarblobeton  ofdu  tacit tt ana-niadtned dettirlen.   -d tott-ent  .s.d by diff:r-l net-otie'b            lett   h  dat.   Fbm data at,tosblacs, nnsta  t
detbo  ttr  ofaeieodo5 icdtat  t-.o., ani tea--totr  ct-san   ajor diffenne   ewentotts
Or  cfceo  gops ur  (II the tans  en-Ioy otoan of the sujc  .... ty and (I)   tonen  rop  ta  -neno  high.r an-ton  boom  It..a It,lfe . cotry grouP of the
sojonconr  (soc.PIyt ten  '011--ntn" Oil terorar_  tno  ch At'iddln leo-  earth hlrtta sod nlddtw  Eot0 be thos-  b-tne  of .str igrn                      ..t.-Ietoa
of fittien . chofoco.e  group data t.he annne         .r  ntaabttoo aigited ortthmei  onana..  tnt roh froitato  ne  sannpAloe majority of norI.. toonIt- lea
o_oentaod  In'll,ttg anor   f o   tceto   oootnr.  Thee  an-cose  at  only o                       Ieo  t  cPIIUna  tire olae of oeIdtaaaeunIw he   . oatrpr and
AR0  otosedn.s.-)                                                                                  Foro1tenton per titntta  - Fpaalat dtrtded ba uaobt fot -ratttho
total- yotai -t-nacor    1on      .t ln  annaan -d no   -oger  1nt0.                               pdyitt   ote            n,asitnal school at ub--rmty trod
1  -0ad into  ua.-                                                                          doooiorrhrisFrr                     ouogoitoidd by autho  ofrrctn
Mttuluts   -Cttnse  f esc.tn-rrl ncao  -a4taoatctnrraotott  anti Female g-adrasre nase   steo   ews,pr-rtica  ..r... tad
tLt6ulated by .-.or tarn _a orhod an oc-d nort  tttoa (19(9-el banli);                             tnuttataetc.noFtl   r   talmcrnt   wm oLy  tafd
lh.19010  aed l9t1 dat.                                                                         b   ntornwpeylie    awlsmmt   endo    nioaat                             ndo
tartar   net  hnlii irso   oytts   rweItold   otl  -em
coton  tboerlor  rc  oroa    oroolayrcao  noocorito  t nensetnt  sdect tnern  ut  temnortlra -atrabyt yysstao(ba  nthadea
rttaryaceic  col ad igrnta  yacolwo.trtorl a   en  hdra, mcler   toitarc noute   tiaFe,ot.)  ftoe Pofa  inlanautacoefdi totean
uM0atrsl   tcncnlIcIioctn  ne   ntart  e   aes                                                   tnteaIote   ag   fadta   ailtirn    o   ttstttFeoa
IntO, 110, and1000 daa.                                              unba  tonytute stodude-400  -ceffrpsbygnelhsial    n   oa
henitos,  nca  ornacl bsytab  and neiotan  i_teriycer
aoo.atoat  ianynnte                                                                             petlei  opcarad-oldr   ty   tc  ntl
FeciFoalnen,ntdFor ebrrudw  -doofOcyI~lii,100,m   tOldsntnin  ee  Cwos ted  - ?oti noahan of aeaToen ccondacs -t
atonnnooetwa  Int, tll.  ci iet dta.Orarts tat o  Oroebou lentoo  ra  boaolned) -ectl, uban.dsi ara
Xoy.irlattoa Futrin ttont                                                             - 0 eouaritto-ld  coato  f0e-o   c  ottoestieetae'otgoitr
etoetanot tr j~noo    roean  coruutlco poltocton   ors baad 00 ita  and  itotossoanatt.A boaodr or bodar aay  n say et ho tobodnd f
total:l  ctaunbuianaw  and thote- ffontalleybted tnett td-oahi  frsautta    upst
ear. erjciooosaa  tnraicanomrlntteZorpnubnfcroscrao-oe.ra.odoeanarutn
(arn  eo.c  lf    o7ceryatbth  ore-ogatocntr1981f  esotpr  o   0dlto-n,ud  ualMcOiOGoootea
taFclbutos  ttl  sd  Ftut  If  acotanestaittot0ot119                     anTth-gs, otpcten.tdloo  oCmto-csoo-eottt
years.  Te parastera fo  fnrotltea rat  that irot eten  lonelanoctorbd nort_
aas-owtog ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ig daln    otrtlrcodo   t  eo.bw   o   sttsl   untw to tlt-il--I- brrro-fdoetos     ttt  ca. n   oa 
Ilcee   rfonut.tce  oar   storutgw   teo   toot                                      toweoatoalemns  etcltyt  eoo   oren  ayrarg
cawaoetwaofaarubnyte  ttttit   tcos  ar  roectn   yrytas             o       -tna n ca,tdtntdnlosnwptbty
aeterIt cnt  note tod tou(togu  dat  trn  ad  be  td %n_lfIt
tcnctontmatseuattt.Thi  I  unintiolyofo  fetb 7ty7 ne5ti Pdtd btobtrt oie
inienottcF_cee  ln    iootctcecdcto    ar,senPeto   th---otb   ai  i   eol      rontct.tu   adfnl
genoanta  it  f-son cr-lact  tent  rotel. h- ee aret       ayh-e  etofalae   e  n   rorcbotu n-erg.ofts ne
roclatcoeoonratsrctd00ti  batlry ofcrcojt-lhsab                                          rouac  scholto   roaaton  neoO_                 tecescIlrn  sd 
yucileiooaloe  tll  o troted. -rcoooensfTh.l- ttal. yir ad fe-o      utoeaane;endf
... en h .    ..ttloa  lan   -Y eyot-1t ooc  io  scicltcallud                               1oradl 6olaed
only:        19600, 1970c and 110 0 dat.ftatoa nelwotCor                                                                  re-f andocy   - cnrltb  nnlugo.
Mop...t...  lObOn 1901g. sd 1901 defa.                                                         hot-ttahncaoa-          etaf. or- seedc-otl."deannldb
fea- aolee  for nyu5i-t. 1960-70, tnd lie-i.                                                    -neucdodYot  bnonte
ttusoeatu O -hO.nd lb-PO Aoed 1070-01                                                 a t__roaftofid_         -Adei  pabucu- agri 11 yearn and pear.
Rnut lnc  orcr toe  oo-te   - Auc-ot  l.Inehlh  oct cftiod ofyb-
yearL.oorrb1960n  19T0,  -OPOSi ed.it  Oc.ttoor.a
tru  P uani tofo1 (own oA-oao    - bicul  fdoacin    - chaa      ll o  el-ce                  Faato   sa(e  hoodycttte,                       aacw   sacmrs   uo
-rrlbcccuo    c-lly 11cr- yr   --euge  -odtes to Itt, iO7t. and                            braf-r cgett  etcpreraadnOrctta;aeoe  at-
pNagns_nu rorore Oe  teuscdneulnt-)- -                                                                                                        nIfns    ee  rod-an  t
fsauty ftreeln -iotnrre of aecele  000-00             - Ferety   ofs1 re-rnen  Ftl  pa 1                              de,asdFnoann I..reclaim   antfedfcearr
roon- acba-arn ar  I-loatot    nblnfanrldorncirhcnaod In rr... aOt  ntIg                                                                   ofo   iI  tc 
lede o  fod fndiult2pynptA       tt- 1-101   - toct   ottpt                                rttaio   oct-nbau  to roeo- din  ofts  n-foe   It lOrto- eo
oMtbredcee   fuiW          fn   oodtn.ceete   oldnne   n                                          ah  0dntpt'  tfI   rrteo  tsrO-Weteo   ot
reetapea naytc of nuontorl~croonif reutrentoa( - ftnaced  rom                neiF(blo  rerun(reautudal - uaeeifnbIy anuot....ou., oItodaa-oIt-
nnotyt0oootot e  ne  feb--ybe    stpirtet              i-n y par d nel-gn                  Ccrtn ci- t-mylytho  eeilul                    -rueent.sades  et-.teore
dec   Ootbte  aeyle.  onprba  -mot-  cetotecLtee dfnynntt                                 eoatt  falus     klltoaO   ttn noeri- urn -to
enineo,an  choga  osoc.-to  noy-plbnt ; ottod  obou         a,o  ar19teocbe   OO,17 0110   oa
o-cciter  ond teIh crnsd~co  ecunonoo ..s. cont hodyllb~lm   -elhttsLna as 0 pa                                      970a~  of4 tutab lao   eca   Ol 1t-e  I             aa
Fecosec      dipt of. pobtnit (ocanptl netio)    Fr1e970ttutofyet1981 o                                                                                                  dd190  sns
Iut   rtl,o    lon  10  rs  theclIdt   nstFnre    u                                     1060, l9OP, an   91 Otto   Ttoafatw hosnd enl-              atttalas
seaoaodo at hooo e.. chan0  75 ors-  nf tota I             -cooo  03 inte                  Itbchgntteateuoc   t  rrina,sdio   uutrd 
ofuiwlrntu  atau           Irg   fo hr  ncd   cyrify UOfr toIet                                  ftrtnosntotetoalnret
WbcdOoidcedF.  tor 9nr    t-tt.  9107  and lItdc.utue   nedeyhto-bno  frrbno   ne   fsdt   n   uet
y     -u-taeocl nnl fcone_bec   tio-Fet  _auytb  nf lend                                    tfhr tonal-d- bnbor fartde.                                                  I
dscuadfrm ntnba  od  0105  tton   yt dy 1tOl96-6t, 1970 oni 10711I
dat.                                                                                        Ittuft rIbIlubytOe
Chid (no   1-iOaa d frn (ret. ttreoatd  190 duotdoh   a   hnudi                            aoosoo   non  ocn   ec   otm   n   td      nrnieadIs 
ceeenrtan doto isrtcti  res luet tutoboat lOtO,1970 toa 1001 data.                  b-blad..
tnut.no                                                             I,,                           eneT C T.lgT eFXoTP
nfa-i    - onnulit harCn  hiU- d) - Oonu1 detho of lof- todcio                                  suoe  osuteyoee  oon tnbtb   w   ota      r  ntdns 
pea  ofeeFrnoror  tIne- hinecrI1060, 1010 uod 1Oot d-c-                                          Aheolta ecoaty It-on   wnni ts tIhon botwe' leeeI bnloo tosnsh          jta
Occes of nafr an (eeu tf paoole                   ot. nlnn. ted eor1 -                              uttteely aetne-  dile  plot  -aootti  -o-fea    nora nh   o
Ooce   i  e-   l  (crl    -ino,ad ror.. "Ih ratoesbt trrnoa ec.aar.n..ondebi.=
INttortf(ncortteatdtoftenctsenoucao  btfabatdhnnto   terciceo ewl(e'ptAota)-fia  adtuu 
tnocnoandueraroabefo ed-eebntue.--n.odrrarlott-hsreoomtnytoe-ttetcttg_rert
oatte  -wate  to   -ecene  ofre    ofeto  poaltlns   nr o                                     asoatt_ot_o  tehoney1trtotreMtderoa -raa Pto -oc
unacutou  ubb   outaooratrretloeudoo  tr  ta  10 ntr                              loO   lb   djsntrtin  tho  cs  o  beeoI  uta  ten
ehd day to f-chbr~ ehe feotlp' nu        eea
Mees ohooca nttona b         Xneeto iaco 'et    ....to. nn.tud
;i% -fese   f paotr(toal ore.adntt  tft   nure
Otytol00ftcacat  i  ttl btnpdor  pausin.dbd              wn   tsea
way-nclds tb rh    tr It Zt  dtnoalI hoetoreuhoo  toastelu     ..ut                                                                ntItaodita   e ueao
h..ou..c....hO. t        ..-e... up watn-boonat-        Oo  tht  o  entttooetatyt  adroeteaotrwe
nPne   e   tta  Istttosu  103



- 29 -
ANNEX I
(Page 4 of 5)
CYPRUS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X Constant Prices)
USS Million      Percent                                       1977-79               1980-82
GNP at Market Prices                       2,171.8         100.0                                         10.1                   3.9
Gross Domestic Investment                    701.0           32.3                                        25.5                  -1.1
Gross National Savings                       525.6           24.2                                        19.5                  -1.0
Current Account Balance                     -176.1          -8.1                                         46.1                 -21.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                      1,106.7           51.0                                        14.4                  11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                      1,390.8          64.0                                         17.9                   7.1
OUTPUT, LABOR AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added                  Labor Force                          V.A. Per Worker
USS Million   Percent         Thousand    Percent                    US$         Percent
Agriculture                                     195.9         9.9            44.8        19.4                    4,373        511
Industry                                       655.6        33.3             68.5        29.7                    9,571     1,119
Services                                     1,119.4        56.8             85.2        37.0                   13,138      1,536
Unallocated 2/                                  -            -               32.0        13.0                     -             -
Total/Average                              1,970.9       100.0           230.5       100.0                    8,551      1,000
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
C£ Million       Percent of GDP                  C£ Million       Percent of GDP
1982           1982   1980-82                   1982            1982   1980-82
Current Receipts                       232.2           23.1    22.3                     167.1           16.6      12.7
Current Expenditure                    249.8           24.8    23.9                     204.9           20.4      19.2
Current Surplus                       -17.6            -1.7    -1.6                    -37.8            -3.8      -6.5
Capital Expenditures                    43.1            4.3      5.0                     26.6            2.6       2.7
External Assistance (net)               34.9            3.5      2.7                     23.7            2.3       2.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982 3/       1983 3/
(Million Cyprus Pounds Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                   363.3      433.5      501.1      601.3     604.9          702.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector             31.0       49.6      76.2      100.6       97.1          92.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector           292.9      356.7     404.7      462.4      485.2         562.6
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        71.1       69.3       66.6       69.0      60.1          --
General Price Index (1973 = 100)          1.570      1.765      2.009      2.273     2.508        --
Annual Percentage Changes in;
General Price Index                      11.3       12.4       13.8      13.1       10.3          --
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)    49.6          60.0       53.6      32.0       -3.5          -3.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector            17.9       21.9       13.5      14.3        4.9           16.0
1/ Refer to the area under Government's control only.
2/ Includes unemployment, workers employed in British bases, foreign organizations and in other countries.
3/ End March except for lines 4, 5, and 6.
EM2D
February 1984



- 30 -
ANNEX I
(Page 5 of 5)
CYPRUS - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-82)
1978      1980       1982                                                           US$ Million      Percent
(illo-lnuS$)
Exports of Goods (NFS)          571.1     954.6    1,028.4                                    Clothing                    82.6           18.4
Imports of Goods (NFS)          831.4   1.319.3    1,298.0                                    Footwear                    36.5            8.1
Resource Gap (Deficit - -)   -260.3    -364.7        -269.6                                   Potatoes                    42.7            9.5
Citrus                     26.7             6.0
Interest Payments (net)         -4.3       -3.4       -15.1                                   Portland Cement            28.7             6.4
Workers' Remittances             44.5       58.1       55.4                                   Paper Products              21.3            4.7
Other Factor Payments (net)       0.3        9.6       17.9                                   Cigarettes                  20.7            4.6
Net Transfers                    22.5      32.5        35.3                                   All other commodities    189.4             42.2
Balance on Current Account   -197.3    -267.9        -176.1                                     Total                   448.6           100.0
Direct: Foreign Investment       57.1      85.0        80.4                                   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Net M1.T Borrowing               65.7     108.7       146.2
Disbursements                  78.1     138.9       202.7                                  Public Debt, including guaranteed         611.9
Amor-tization                  12.4      30.2        56.5                                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                --
Suib-Total                 -74.5      -74.2        50.5                                    Total Outstanding and Disbursed         611.9
Capital Grants                   45.0      40.8        35.9
Other Capital (net)              21.4      25.1         9.0                                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982
Other Items n.i.e.                7.0      32.7        18.3
Increase in Reserves (+)        -1.1      +24.3      +113.7                                  Public Debt, including guaranteed           9.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  --
Fuels and Related Materials                                                                     Total                                    9.7
Imparts                       83.0      222.6       246.3
Of Which Petroleum          83.0      222.6       246.3                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING (END 1982) (Million US$)
Exports                         -         -            -
Of Which Petroleum           -          -            -                                                                 IBRD      IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  Outstanding and Disbursed    68.1        -
Undisbursed                    56.9     -
Average 1980-82                      June 1983                                           Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                 125.0     -
US$1.00 - CE0.41                  US$1.00 - CE0.52
C£1.00 - US52.44                  C£1.00 - USt11.91
EM2D
February 1984



- 31 -
ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 2)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS"/
(As of September 30, 1983)
--------US$ Million--------
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
Number   Year    Borrower      Purpose                 Bank         Undisbursed
Twelve loans fully disbursed                           80.4
1344     1976    Republic of  Highway II
Cyprus                               10.0               3.4
1483     1977    Republic of  Rural
Cyprus       Development             10.0               1.4
1540     1978    Cyprus Ports Ports II
Authority                             8.5               1.0
1658     1979    Republic of  Water Resources
Cyprus       Development             11.0               9.5
1873     1980    Electricity  Power V
Authority of
Cyprus                               16.0               6.1
1988     1981    Republic of  Fruit and Vegetable
Cyprus       Export                  14.0              13.4
2128     1982    Republic of  Highways III             12.2              12.0
Cyprus
2279     1983    Republic of  Khrysokhou Irrigation
Cyprus                               16.0              16.0
2286     1983    Republic of  Energy Planning and
Cyprus       Conservation             3.6               3.6
2287     1983    Electricity  Energy Planning and
Authority of Conservation
Cyprus                                6.6               6.6
Total                                       188.3              73.0
of which has been repaid           42.3
Total now outstanding                       146.0
Amount sold                     2.3
of which has been repaid    2.3
Total now held by Bank                      146.0
Total undisbursed                                              73.0
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
A8s of September 30, 1983)
--Amount in US$ Million--
Year            Obligor            Type of Business      Loan      Equity      Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company          Cement              2.3       0.5         2.8
197J    Cyprus Pipes Industry          Construction
material           0.5        0.2         0.7
1983    Dome Hotel                     Tourism             1.9       0.3         2.2
1983    Cyprus Investment and          Money and
Securities Corporation      Capital Markets    -          0.2         0.2
Total gross commitments                           4.7        1.2         5.9
-less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            2.7        0.4        3.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.0        0.8         2.8
Total undisbursed                                 1.2        0.1         1.3



- 33 -
ANNEX III
(Page 1 of 2)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
Time taken by country to prepare project;  Five years
Agency which prepared project              : Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources with assistance from the
Overseas Development Administration
of the United Kingdom
Project first presented to Bank            ; March 1978
First Bank mission to review project    ; February 1979
Departure of appraisal mission             : April 1983
Completion of negotiations                 ;  January 13, 1984
Planned date of effectiveness              ; July 1984
Section II; Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness;
Signing by Government of a loan agreement with the Kuwait Fund and
signing and effectiveness of a co-financiers' agreement for $28.0 million
(corresponding to the likely contribution of the European Investment Bank)
(paras. 56 and 85).
2. Measures to be taken by the Government include;
(a) Government will, not later than June 30, 1986, prepare a schedule and
plan for the development of Phase II of the SCP and will starl:
construction under Phase II not later than January 1, 1988 (para. 83).
(b) Government will conclude co-financing agreements amounting to
$40.0 million by December 31, 1984 and for the remaining financing
gap by June 30, 1986 (para. 56).
(c) Government would employ consultants for construction supervision and
management support, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 58).
(d) Government would resettle and adequately compensate people affected
by the inundation of the Khalassa village and will acquire all land
necessary for purposes related to the project, not later than
December 31, 1984 (para. 54).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
(Page 2 of 2)
(e) Government would retain the panel of experts assigned to review the
design of Kouris dam for periodic review and inspection of the dam
during and after construction (para. 57).
(f) Government would undertake a study to review the existing
organization and management of its water resources and determine the
structure of the national water entity, provide the study to the Bank
for review and comment by June 30, 1985, and take all measures for
the establishment of the entity not later than December 31, 1985
(para. 59).
(g) Government would establish a Project Implementation Unit, a Project
Policy and Coordination Committee, and two Project Advisory
Committees by July 31, 1984 (para. 60), a Project Operation Unit to
operate and maintain both the VPP and SCP by June 30, 1985 (para.
61), and a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit by January 1, 1985
(para. 65).
(h) Government would take the measures proposed in para. 62 to protect
the Kokkinokhoria aquifer.
(i)  Government would undertake studies to determine irrigation charges
for SCP and non-SCP water, collect the charges as proposed (paras. 73
and 74), and review them annually to ensure that they are adjusted as
necessary (para. 75).
(j) Government would apply the proposed water tariff system for domestic
water and review annually the bulk water tariffs to ensure that they
cover the full O&M cost and working capital requirements plus debt
service or depreciation, whichever is higher.  Also the Government
would ensure that the water boards and village councils adjust
regularly their retail water tariffs accordingly (para. 70).



BRD 17484
33                                                     N  cos s a    -        \                33 30                                                                                             OCTOBER 1S33
"FA < En4                                                                                   r;7               \                                                        i |                         <' f       amagusta
LAKATAMIA
SERVICE  ESERVOR\I
E,,ykh-O                                                                                                                                                    RESERvoIRfr                 I's1
Evrykhou   --                                                 l~~~~~hal       /     [.                                                         2    3i   A     :        ''{
-35                                                                                                                                        \I ,35°
-yQh6 '- I,
TERRSEPRANOU WATER                   ,          __ *            XyYP             t 4 -  . 
TREATMENT WORKS                       
KHIROKITIA WATER
TREATMENT WORKS                                   Aradhppo                     T '          .)
ANE SCPIVPP OPERATIONAL                                                                                                              A
CONTROL CENTER I                           -                                                                            GAT KOKKINKAORIA
LEKRA                                                     .1
. |)RESERO TR  E E S WATER        \                         LOrflOCO                                       CYPRUS
j v OPanoPlatres // /                                                                           TRE(T ENT WORKS  NQ--                            3SOUTHERN CONVEYOR PROJECT
IIminoU    '    Kato Plot,eso   I                                                                                            ROV AQUIFER WORKS OR         <                                       PRINCIPA               L   FEATURES
v| DOIHVAERmSIZON3 t   J                                                                                                                                                                           A A>o tZ Tesephno0  (  NT  VASI LtKOS-PENDASKINOS  sOUTHERN CONVEYOR
D HIARIZOS                                                                                                VOT R                                                   /                                       PROJECT (VPP)                PROJECT (SCT)
Z~~~~~~~~~~~ -V',.                                                                                      X         ESERVOIR   i     pCS                                                                                             AE ;W  DS;o.S PUPNSPINS D
. i    DIVERSION                                                                    M          AINa RN AQI                                                                                                                                       RR NR
~~lf  I/                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ph:a ses~~~~~~a 
ID,                       g                          Ep-skop  /  oKALAVASOS                         I          I                    ITRRIOATIONAREA               r                                                          Pha ,
-      RESER VOIR                                   \ -   . .i:
.,  :   ;  U L  /5 F.  .4   ,, ;:RESERvoiR AND DAM
57  VERMA SO VIA             P    OKPINGSAIO                    V              ~MAIN CONVEYOR
WOORK S                       RESRVOIR                                                                    MATOtOSIRRIkATIC|N AREA       TRANSMiSSION MAINS                        --____
RfESERVOIR             LIMASSOL WATER                                                                                                             m
REATM ENT %A                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TREATMENT WORKS  LEU
utaylaka  ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     VSLIOS-PENDASKINOS                        PLJUEPiNG STA~TIONS
MOIIIOyISIOO                            ~~~~~~~IRRIGATION AREAS
RESERVOIR                                 ML                                                                                   AQUIFER WORKS
IRR     h   E          MAR INPISSTRL                                                       STORAGE TANKS
. ,.,>.h.~~~~E                     A .                                                                                                                                           GA                                                                        . ..           lrew ehnMh lnlFh r.@Vtl...........................i33i::
EELOET AREA 1rw1 shlus ol 'ns hF#V r g   .. ol vulh T;FES                                                    Z     I_
2/>.           Akrot~lyjME /E R                                                  E                                                 SALT LAKES( _
Y    aLIMASSL                                                                                                                                                 RVR
SEAGE TEATMN                                                               S    E   A:                                                    PRESENT CEASE FIRE LINE- - -
WORKS IsNaoa     KEe0A6ROIR IRRIGATiON AREA
1100144 laO  000,0,0,01001,1  SIlo  000401400,0060,00W,  10  40145510601                                                                                  I        p5        10         15       20         25 I2G   2
0,0440,00514001,05 olIn, 400014,0 Old 000100610,01                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~KILOMEERS
Fr,c-r,oo  14.doaob  odadROod0 1.410oP   '130
0,010  0   lmO0l,, 400.000000,11000,.Coo,00 65~l4I00I33'                                                                                     J  0



