Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19290 AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND CREDIT PROJECT
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Region



AZERBAIJAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND CREDIT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     3
3. Key performance indicators                                                        4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
4. Program description and perfonnance triggers for subsequent loans                 9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    16
3. Benefits and target population                                                   17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      24
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         25
2. Financial                                                                        26
3. Technical                                                                        28
4. Institutional                                                                    28
5. Social                                                                           29
6. Environmental assessment                                                         30
7. Participatory approach                                                           31
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   31



2. Critical risks                                                                     32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     35
G. Main Loan condition
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           35
2. Other                                                                              35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         61
Annex 4: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                 62
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities                          67
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       78
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     88
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       89
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  90
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            92
Annex 11: Credit Cooperatives: Legal and Prudential Guidelines                           94
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation Activities                                          101
Annex 13: Summary of Social Assessment                                                  106
Annex 14: Financial Management                                                          122
Annex 15: Letter of Development Policy                                                  123
MAP(S)



AZERBAIJAN
Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD (ECA Socially Sustainable Development Unit)
Date: May 10, 1999                                 Team Leader: Van Roy Southworth
Country Manager/Director: Ishrat Husain            Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: 35813                                  Sector(s): AD - Rural Development
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
IDA             t)thers      Total    C'ommitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1      30.0   89.0        3.7        33.7      09/08/99   03/31/2004
Credit
APL 2         35.0   70.0      15.0        50.0    02/28/2003   08/31/2006
Loan/
Credit
APL 3         35.0    70.0     15.0        50.0    02/28/2006   08/31/2009
Loan/
Credit                                                                __Gan_O_uaante___Ohe_(Secfy
APL 4
Loan/
Credit
iTotal       100.0  I          33.7   1 133.7                   ____________________
Project Financing Data
El Loan         F Credit        El Grant        LI Guarantee     LI Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditsJOthers:
Amount (US$m) 30.0
Proposed Terms: El To be defined  El Multicurrency El Single currency
O Standard Variable EL Fixed         LI LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               35
Commitment fee:                  0.5%
Service charge                   0.75%
Government                                                       1.34           0.00           1.34
IBRD                                                             0.00           0.00           0.00
IDA                                                              4.18          25.82          30.00
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION                                      0.00           2.31           2.31



Total:                                                           5.52   j      28.13          33.65   |
Borrower: Azerbaijan Republic
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Agriculture, The State Land Committee, Ministry of Finance, Azerbaijan Naitonal Bank, Ministry of
Economy
Implementing agency(ies):
Project Management Unit
Address:
Contact Person: Vagif A. Huseynov
Tel: (99412) 93 46 93               Fax: (99412) 98 13 95                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual    1.50          6.00        10.00        9.00        3.50
Cumulative    1.50          7.50        17.50      26.50        30.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/08/99  Expected closing date:  03/31/2004
OCS APL PAD Form: October 9, 1998
-2-



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The objective of the Agricultural Development and Credit Program is to return Azerbaijan's
farming areas to former levels of productivity under a new system characterized by private family and
group farms operating in private markets.
The program will support the development nationwide of: (i) an accessible, secure and unified
system for registering all rights in real estate (land and buildings); (ii) a network for financial services in
rural areas consisting of local financial intermediaries (LFIs), such as credit cooperatives and rural
branches of commercial banks, to provide private farms and other rural enterprises with market-based
financial services; (iii) mixed public and private advisory services for rural enterprises; and (iv)
Government capacity to formulate appropriate policy responses to the impact of the anticipated build-up in
oil revenues on the competitiveness of the rural economy. The program will be implemented in three
phases over a ten year period. The first phase, which is described in this Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), will cover four years and will focus on registering private rights to rural farm land and on testing
mechanisms for a unified real estate registration system encompassing urban and rural land and buildings.
It will also pilot development of a self-sustainable rural financial system based on the creation of LFIs, the
establishment of rural information and advisory services and the strengthening of research and veterinary
services. Moreover, it will strengthen Government capacity to analyze and respond to the impact on rural
Azerbaijan of developments in the oil sector. Two subsequent phases lasting three years each will focus on
expanding the geographical coverage of the rural advisory services and the number of LFIs. In addition,
initiatives to encourage commercial banks to establish rural branches will be added in the subsequent
phases. In these later phases, the real estate registration system will be expanded until it reaches
nationwide coverage.
Except for the pilot rural finance initiative, the program is largely based on the experience of the
IDA/IFAD-assisted Farm Privatization Project (FPP) which is currently under implementation. Since
1996, the FPP has worked extensively with six former state and collective farms undergoing land
privatization and farm restructuring. This work has served as the basis for the farm privatization process
now underway nationwide. It has also helped develop modalities for the provision of information and
training for emerging farmers.
Performance indicators of progress towards program objectives will be tracked through a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system that will measure: (i) progress in registration real estate
transactions, including land and improvements; (ii) the performance of LFIs and rural bank branches
established during the program as demonstrated by their numbers, volume of lending, the financial viability
of the activities financed, and the soundness of their portfolios; (iii) the numbers and types of agents
providing information and advice to farms; (iv) the numbers of rural enterprises utilizing rural advisory
services; and (v) the adoption of new farm management practices, and changes in technology.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Private family and group farms and other private rural entrepreneurs begin to register land
transactions in large numbers, use information and advisory services, and expand investment in their farms
and other rural businesses.
-3-



3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance indicators for the first phase project are derived from the program performance
indicators discussed above. They are based on: (a) adoption of a clear institutional framework and action
plan for the creation of a unified real estate registration system; number of land titles registered and
transactions recorded; (b) the number of financial sustainable LFIs established, amount of equity raised,
and the number and amounts of loans made and recovered; (c) the number of private farm advisors trained
and working, number of private farm units serviced, and the number of research activities addressing
immediate farmer needs; and (d) demonstrated capability for agricultural strategy formulation as measured
by number of trained staff, and studies prepared and accepted by Government.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 15948-Az.                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/22/96
The proposed project is included in the CAS and is consistent with CAS objectives. The project
supports the Government's efforts to design and implement policies and programs conducive to the use of
Azerbaijan's oil potential to achieve sustainable growth and poverty reduction. This focus includes macro
economic policies that encourage public and private saving and investment, complemented by sector
initiatives that facilitate efficient allocation of resources, and social policies that preserve Azerbaijan's
human capital and protect those vulnerable to the changes sweeping the country. The program is directed
at: (i) establishment of a policy environment and institutional framework conducive to efficient and
equitable private sector-led sustainable growth; (ii) enhancement of competitiveness in critical economic
sectors; (iii) alleviation of poverty; and (iv) resettlement and rehabilitation of refugees. The CAS
emphasizes agriculture in the context of enhancing competitiveness in critical sectors, since it provides
ample opportunities for expanding output and incomes of Azerbaijan's poor. Specific CAS aims directly
supported by the project are: (i) creating land markets within an appropriate legal framework; and (ii)
developing a rural credit scheme and advisory services for new private farmers.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture plays an important role in the Azeri economy, contributing over 30 percent of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) and providing income and employment for 45 percent of all households. Also, it
traditionally has contributed significantly to exports both of primary commodities and processed food and
beverages. The sector produces a wide variety of products and was at one time a major producer of fruits,
vegetables and wine products for the Soviet Union. Climatic conditions are favorable to agriculture,
though low rainfall makes the sector heavily dependent on irrigation. Nearly 85 percent of cultivated area
is irrigated.
At independence the Government inherited a badly functioning cormnand-based agricultural sector.
Initial attempts at reform were tentative, but the process gathered momentum in the mid-1990s and has
moved rapidly since. Most state and collective farms have been disbanded and nearly all cultivable land
has been distributed to individual households in one of the most comprehensive agrarian land reforms in the
formerly Soviet Union (FSU). Domestic and international trade in agricultural products has been
liberalized and input and output prices are market determined. There are no export taxes and import duties
have been reduced to low levels and are being made uniform  across categories.  Finally, most
agro-enterprises have been privatized. These reforms are fundamentally transforming the sector, which
centers increasingly on farming households operating in private markets.
-4-



While the reforms have been dramatic, the sector remains mired in deep crisis. Output and
productivity, which fell roughly by two thirds during the period since 1990, has stabilized in recent years,
but there is little evidence yet of a recovery. Rather, the sector is stuck in a low level trap, in which
emerging farm households lack the resources to re-establish the intensity of farming operations required to
make irrigated agriculture a viable way of life. Economic and financial models for a large range of rural
activities show that they are potentially highly profitable with high rates of return. However, several key
constraints must be overcome before these rates can be achieved. Principal among these are: (i) the lack of
capital due to non-functioning rural financial markets; (ii) post privatization land issues, particularly the
need to establish a reliable register for land titles; (iii) lack of technical and managerial know-how,
particularly among the newly established farming households; and (iv) a rapidly deteriorating irrigation
infrastructure that is affecting water availability.
The Government is acutely aware of the need to address these constraints in order to close the
productivity gap and restore the competitiveness of the sector. The Government is also worried that the
expected rapid development of oil revenues will cause an appreciation of the real exchange rate which
could have a negative impact on sector competitiveness. In response to these concerns, the Government is
developing programs with donor support to address the key constraints in the sector and to make the
necessary investments in public goods and services that will help it maintain its competitiveness in face of
adverse exchange rate movements. The program described in this PAD is one part of a two pronged
strategy to turn the sector around and focuses on improving key services for the agricultural sector. The
second prong is the comprehensive rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure and reform of irrigation
management which is also receiving support from the Bank through two planned operations in FY00 and
FY01. For the current program the Government is focusing on the following components:
(i)    Rural Finance: Increased availability of rural financial services is one of the Government's key
and most urgent policy objectives. Lack of access to finance has negatively affected rural growth as the
sector has not been able to adjust to a market economy. Access to financial services is necessary so that
rural entrepreneurs can take advantage of the recent market reforms to adjust factor proportions, modify
output mixes, change the scale of operations, and invest in new technologies.
Private farms and other rural enterprises lack access to credit for a number of reasons. Under the
old Soviet system, all agricultural credit was provided by the state-owned Agroprom Bank. Commercial
banks provided no lending to the sector whatsoever. Agroprom basically collapsed following independence
and is now undergoing restructuring. It will be years, if ever, before a restructured Agroprom emerges as a
provider of financial services. Meanwhile, the commercial banks have not moved to fill this void. They are
small, poorly capitalized and face a shortage of loanable funds. They are currently undergoing a major
consolidation as the Government implements a comprehensive financial sector reform that emphasizes
increased capital requirements and tighter banking supervision. None of these Banks have rural branches
and under the circumstances they are not generally looking to expand into new lines of business.  At
present their technology and high cost structures are ill suited to reach large numbers of small,
geographically dispersed customers such as farmers and rural enterprises. These banks also perceive rural
lending to be high cost and high risk. There perception of risk is reinforced by the belief that rural
borrowers do not have adequate collateral and the collateral they do have is difficult to use.
To address these constraints and to increase the flow of savings and credit in rural areas, the
Government has designed a comprehensive strategy to develop financial markets in rural areas. Over the
long-term the strategy envisages the development of a multi-channel rural financial system involving both
commnercial banks and other non bank financial intermediaries. In the short-run, the strategy focuses on
reducing risks and costs by: (i) improving the framework for the use of collateral through developing
-5-



registries for both land and moveable property; and (ii) developing lending mechanisms that emphasize
group screening and joint liability, effectively substituting social capital for physical collateral. In support
of this short-term approach, the Government intends to launch a pilot initiative to develop sustainable LFIs
and to provide them with loanable funds. The pilot initiative will entail the following actions.
o   Improving the legal and institutional environment for credit transactions by: (i) developing the
implementation rules for a recently passed law on secured transactions; and (ii) preparing options
for registration of interests secured with movable assets in accordance with the new law. These
two actions will allow use of movable assets such as inventories of inputs and crops as collateral
for rural loans.
*   Creating and strengthening sound and competitive financial institutions. During the first stage
credit cooperatives (CCs), a specific type of LFI, will be promoted. The Government has already
issued a legal and regulatory framework for CCs. They can be incorporated under the "Law on
Enterprises" as Limited Liability Enterprises and will be licensed under the Azerbaijan National
Bank (ANB) decision "Rules of Licensing and Regulating the Banking Activities of Credit
Cooperatives." This legal framework, combined with appropriate prudential norms and effective
supervision, will provide the environment for the development of a safe and sound system of CCs.
A number of CCs have been established on a pilot basis under the new regulations and initial
indications are that these CCs have the ability to raise local funds as equity or savings. CCs will be
provided with accounting procedures, management information systems, portfolio monitoring
instruments, internal control procedures, operational manuals, training packages, and design of
financial services to be offered to their members.
*   Using solidarity groups as transitional channels for donor provided funds. This second type of
LFI will be groups of borrowers with 10 to 20 individual farmers and micro-entrepreneurs. These
groups will be assisted to act collectively to obtain credit on the basis of their joint liability. Social
capital in the form of existing character information, peer monitoring, and local enforcement will
be the main instrument to guarantee the group's repayment. These groups of borrowers will not
need a legal incorporation nor a ANB license as they will not be allowed to collect deposits from
the public.
:   Making term funds available to be on-lent to final borrowers through LFIs. Donor financed
credit lines will be made available until banks or other market-based lenders can provide rural
credit. Nonetheless, to permit the development of market alternatives, these credit lines will be: (i)
transitory; (ii) well targeted; (iii) appropriately priced --at market rates and with adequate margins
to LFIs to cover all costs, including credit risks and profit margin; and (iv) well designed in terms
of recovery incentives for all intermediaries making credit decisions.
*   Improving prudential regulations and banking supervision by developing a complete set of
prudential norms for CCs as well as the procedures, methods, and instruments required to
supervise their compliance together with reporting requirements, supervisory triggers, and licensing
steps at the ANB.
The Government is taking a bold and novel approach to rural finance by creating from scratch
local institutions to intermediate credit to the rural sector in a country where the banking sector is
undergoing a major shake out and where there exist no branches in rural areas. Nonetheless, the dearth of
capital available to finance necessary inputs to new private farms is one of the most important impediments
to growth in the sector. While the untested nature of this approach makes it high risk, the clear benefits to
-6-



alleviating this key constraint seem to warrant this intervention. The Government is intentionally keeping
this initiative small and of a pilot nature so as to minimize the potential for mistakes and to learn quickly
from the experience.
(ii)    Land Markets: Key to the Government's efforts to develop a competitive rural economy, is the
development of well functioning land markets. Considerable progress is being made, particularly in the
allocation of farm lands and the issuance of land titles to new farm families. This process began in 1996 on
1,745 former state and collective farms which the Government decided to privatize. The cultivable land on
those farms was allocated to farm members. At the end of March 1999, some 600,000 land titles had been
issued to rural families. This constitutes about 75 percent of the expected total of 790,000 titles. The title
certificates are issued in the name of the head of the household and include a unique parcel number, a map
of the parcel, a list of family members, and details on land quality. Moreover, much of the legal framework
in support of land markets is being put in place. A land cadastre law was recently passed and a revised
land code has been drafted and is currently being reviewed by the Parliament. Also, a law on pledges was
passed by Parliament in August and implementing arrangements are being prepared. These measures
provide the legal basis for full private land ownership and market-based land transactions, including sale,
leasing, gift-giving, inheritance, and mortgaging of land without restriction.
Despite this progress, concern exists about the process, which of necessity has focused on the
issuance of land titles and not on developing a title registration system. The State Land Committee (SLC)
is opening new offices for registration of land transactions at ten regional centers, but they are not yet fully
functional and procedures for registration are not yet in place. As a result, the actual process of registering
land titles and transactions is lagging. Until an accessible and decentralized registry is functioning there
remains a risk that land transactions, which are already taking place, will not be properly recorded and the
use of land as collateral will be constrained. This is of particular importance for women, the elderly and
the youth who have so far all received equal access to land. The social equity in the distribution of land
titles has been one of the most significant achievements of the rural privatization process and needs to be
safeguarded.
The Government currently operates a fragmented real estate system with different registries for
rural land (SLC), Urban Land (municipalities), and for urban buildings (Bureau of Inventory Control).
This fragmented approach wastes resources, drives-up the cost of market transactions in land and
buildings, and makes it difficult to cover the cost of maintaining the various registries. The Government
recognizes the weaknesses of the current arrangements and is eager to move to a unified approach.
(iii)   Farm Advisory Services: Emerging private farmers face a daunting task. Although the majority
previously were involved in agriculture on the former state and collective farms, the nature of the farming
operations has totally changed. Farm size is often just a few hectares, compared to the large tracts of land
on the former state farms. Also, the objectives of the operation has changed from yield maximization to
profit maximization and technology must be adapted to the needs of the new farmers. Finally, many new
farmers who previously had little role in technical and managerial decisions on the state farms must now
make all decisions for the successful management of their farms. The availability of appropriate advice for
the farmer for both technical and management issues has, accordingly, become an important issue.
Recent months have witnessed the emergence of a private sector capacity in advisory services for
farmers and agri-business in the form of local consultancy initiatives in Baku, Ganja and other localities. In
addition, several input suppliers and agro-processors are providing technical support, advisory services
and/or demonstrations for their products. These initiatives are a pointer for the future development of
advisory services, linked to specific products and technologies and led by private sector specialists, input
-7-



suppliers and output processors. However, the scale of such initiatives currently remains insignificant in
relation to the needs of the farming community. The FPP, currently under implementation, has initiated a
system within the six project raions which is providing a wide range of information on technical,
management and marketing issues of concern to farmers and this system will provide the basis for
expansion of services nationwide.
Most farms are acutely financially constrained and it is not realistic to expect them to purchase
advisory services at a time when they do not have the cash flow to purchase even basic farm inputs such as
quality seed and fertilizer. This situation can be expected to continue for the foreseeable future and there is
a need for the public sector to plan for the provision of essential information to small-holders on a
subsidized basis at least until the value of the information is established and until the financial constraints
are eased. Moreover, there are some categories of information that are essentially public goods for which
cost recovery is not possible.
(iv)   Role of Government in Policy Formulation: With the privatization of land and of agricultural
enterprises the role of government in the agricultural sector has been reduced dramatically. However, it
retains an important role in policy formulation towards the sector. One critical policy area calls for careful
elaboration: most fundamentally, as the oil boom gathers momentum, there is a critical need for a carefully
prepared strategy to cope with the so-called Dutch Disease - the negative effects on traded good production
which is likely to result from continuing exchange rate appreciation. This process has already started and
the manat has firmed against the US dollar in the past year (and appreciated against most other currencies).
The Government needs to determine the extent to which it is feasible and appropriate to attempt to off-set
the effects of exchange rate appreciation through special measures to support productivity growth in
agriculture and to identify which measures should be used.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The initiatives supported by this project focus on the most important constraints affecting
Azerbaijan's new private farmers, namely, the need for technical advice at the farm level and for rural
agri-businesses the need to establish a transparent land registry to support land market development, and
the critical need for design and development of a self-sustaining rural finance system appropriate for and
accessible to the new private farmers. In shaping the strategy underlying the program, the government has
made a number of choices:
i Single component versus multi-component approach for promoting balanced growth:
Although each of the proposed components could be a stand alone project and reduce project
complexity, it has been concluded that no individual intervention would achieve its objective
without the others. At this stage in Azerbaijan's transition, the competitiveness of the rural
economy and its ability to generate increased incomes and productivity can only be assured through
a nationwide program of related interventions. In addition, the Government has demonstrated its
capacity in the FPP to implement complex programs.
*   Real Estate registration system should be unified over time: Azerbaijan currently has multiple
systems for registering rural and urban land and buildings. The merits of a unified land
registration system are well-established and the Government accepts the principle of moving
towards a consolidated registry system. To initiate the creation of such a system, and realizing the
institutional complexities, and lack of appropriate legal framework, the project proposes a phased
approach, beginning with the completion of the unfinished tasks of nationwide rural land
registration followed by developing the institutional and legal framework for the unified system
-8-



during the first phase. Subsequent phases would implement the unified system nationwide.
*   Rural credit system to be built initially with LFIs: The Government has chosen to pilot a rural
finance distribution network of LFIs rather than using commercial banks at this time. This choice
was made because banks currently do not have the rural branch network nor the technology, skills
or knowledge to work in the rural sector. Moreover, the banking sector is undergoing a
consolidation as the number of private banks has declined tr 79 from more than 200 only two years
ago. It is expected that recently adopted norms requiring banks to have a minimum capital of US$5
million (from US$1.25 million) will induce further decline in the number of banks. A rural finance
strategy focused on encouraging commercial banks to expand into rural areas will be developed in
about three years after the expected consolidation and shake out of the banking sector is completed.
If viable, this strategy would be implemented during the second phase project. In addition, the LFI
approach helps to lower the costs and risks in rural finance with the use of local knowledge and
group pressure.
*   Farm advisory system to be based on development of the private sector advisory capacity.
The project builds upon the reforms being undertaken by the Government in restructuring the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and redefining its role. The project design recognizes the
important public sector role that must be played by the MOA in stimulating the supply and
improving the accessibility of technical and marketing information to farmers. The project design
incorporates a strategic choice, however, not to depend exclusively on a comprehensive public
sector service. Experience suggests that a purely public service would not be capable of delivering
appropriate extension advice to the many types of farming situations. The project, accordingly, is
based on using a public-sector managed project to stimulate the development of the private
advisory suppliers, while providing a subsidized service for the project period to private farms.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Government has fostered the rapid emergence of a farm sector dominated by private family
and group farms. The Government is concerned, however, that new farm owners lack the necessary
information, skills, and resources to develop their farms into profitable businesses. Therefore, it committed
to developing a program that assures the security of the recently issued rights to land, provides necessary
agricultural and financial services to emerging rural enterprises, and improves Government capacity to
formulate rural policy to assure that the emerging farm structure remains competitive in face of
developments in the oil sector.
The first phase of the program will focus on setting up the institutional arrangements and operating
procedures for each of the components and establishing the effectiveness of project design, particularly for
the rural finance component where pilot mechanisms for establishment of LFIs will be tested. The second
and third phases will build on lessons learned from the first phase of the project and will expand the
coverage of the advisory services and rural credit enterprises. For rural finance the subsequent phases will
also include measures to encourage commercial bank penetration into rural areas. For the real estate
registration component these phases will focus on the development of a unified registration system for all
land and buildings. Extension of program activities under the second phase of the project will be subject to
an appraisal that will examine in detail the experience from the first phase. The Government's strategy for
the rural sector and details of its program are described in a letter of Development Policy dated May 7,
1999 (Annex 15).
Benchmarks for each of the major components have been identified for the proposed loans and are
-9-



included in the Letter of Development Policy. Achievement of these benchmnarks will trigger movement to
the second phase of the program. The benchmarks for the Real Estate Registration Component are: (i)
establishment and satisfactory performance of ten regional land registration centers; (ii) registered land
transactions and inquiries reach at least 10,000 per year; (iii) agreement on the institutional framework for
nationwide implementation of a unified real estate registration system; and (iv) promulgation by Parliament
of a unified real estate registration law satisfactory to IDA. The benchmarks for a rural finance second
phase will include: (i) satisfactory implementation of the rural finance component during the first
phase--indicated by at least (a) 60 CCs and 160 groups of borrowers established, and (b) delivery of
lending services amounting to at least $8.0 million; (ii) proven sustainability of LFIs --measured by at least:
(a) 45 CCs with a Subsidy Dependence Index of less than 50 percent and declining for the prior two years,
(b) 45 CCs in full compliance with prudential regulations, (c) 120 borrower groups with loan recoveries of
more than 85 percent of amounts due; and (iii) sufficient outreach of LFIs indicated by at least 12,000
outstanding loans. Benchmarks for the Information and Advisory component will include: (i) at least
10,000 farmers receiving training and advise annually, and at least 3,000 visits to demonstration sites
annually; and (ii) successful operation of the competitive grant scheme.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project consists of four components to address the key issues identified in Section B.
These include:  (a) a real estate registration component; (b) a farm advisory component; (c) a rural
finance component; and (d) a rural policy component. Each component is summarized below.
Real Estate Registration Component
The Real Estate Registration component will include implementation of: (i) regional Cadastre and
Land Registration Systems; and (ii) a pilot unified Cadastre and Registration System for Land and
Buildings in Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic (AR).
Establishment of Regional Land Registration Offices
This sub-component will enable the SLC in Baku and at 10 regional centers to register and update
the ownership of parcels and to issue land titles to individuals in the Raions under their jurisdiction. This
component will support both the development of the land registration system and the related cadastral
system as follows:
Land Registration System: The system will be based on parcels (units of land) allocated in the
farm privatization process. It will operate on personal computers and have the hardware and software to
process and present reliable information. Its design will permit future expansion to record other interests in
each parcel of land, such as mortgages, leases, rights of access, and servitudes. The central office of the
SLC and ten Regional Land Registration Offices (RLROs) will be upgraded and staff will be trained to
provide the required registration services. The central office will focus on administering State lands,
developing policy, and providing cadastral and registration training. It will also maintain a back-up
database of all cadastral information from regional offices. The RLROs will maintain and update the
registry of land rights and provide public access to the records. The state acts issued by the SLC during
privatization process will be registered as the title to the land and will constitute the legal document
guaranteeing the rights of the land owner. The RLROs also will provide technical services for
municipalities concerning allocation and delineation of municipal lands. The project will finance vehicles,
-10-



computers, software and office equipment. It will also finance office rehabilitation to secure the records as
well as incremental operating costs, technical assistance and training.
The initial distribution of land titles in the farm privatization process is free of charge. However,
for subsequent transactions, the Government has decided that the RLROs will charge fees. The SLC has
proposed a fee of about $12.00 for each transaction. The Government is currently reviewing this proposal
with a view to implementing a fee structure that balances the objective of cost recovery with the need to
assure that the fees do not serve as a deterrent to registration of land transactions. Implementation of the
new fee structure satisfactory to IDA will be completed by January 31, 2000.
Cadastral System. The information resulting from farm privatization and available at the central
level now will be decentralized and will form the basis for the regional cadastral system. The system will
consist mainly of two sub-systems - the cadastral administration and the cadastral map and will be
available in digital form. The cadastral administration is a data base of all owners, parcels with unique
numbers and legal rights on the parcels. The system also gives access to the registered certificates. The
cadastral map is a graphic representation of all parcels. The existing 1:10000 scale maps have been
digitized and can be printed at a scale appropriate to show the parcel boundaries. Procedures will be
developed for updating both sub-systems. The project will finance equipment for surveying and training.
As the land markets develops, the demand for surveying services to support activities such as land
subdivision, boundary restoration, land consolidations and route location surveys will grow. Opportunities
for the private provision of these services will be monitored with a view to supporting the development of
private survey capacity in subsequent phases of the program.
Pilot Unified Cadastre and Registration System for Land and Buildings in Nakhchivan AR.
A unified Cadastre and Registration System for land and buildings will be set up for Nakhchivan.
The pilot activities include: (a) developing and testing a unified Cadastre and Registration System; (b)
preparing the necessary legal framework and implementing regulations for a unified system; (c) designing
the administrative procedures for implementing and updating the system; (d) developing the operational
standards and organizational structures; and (e) providing the tools including surveying instruments,
hardware, software, and user and training manuals. Digital base mapping will be produced for the territory
of Nakhchivan. A unique parcel based numbering system will be developed and tested. Real property
information for all of the rural and urban land and all of the buildings will form the cadastre. This approach
will make it possible to develop a cadastral model and a sound national policy that can be implemented in
the whole of Azerbaijan in subsequent phases. Nakhchivan, an autonomous region with six Raions and a
mix of urban and rural areas, was chosen because it is representative of Azerbaijan as a whole and because
it has its own Parliament which will facilitate the adoption of the appropriate legal framework.
Information and Advisory Services Component
This component will increase access of farmers and other rural entrepreneurs to information,
advice and training. It will build capacity for the provision of such services in both the private and public
sector, assemble usefiul technology and advice, and develop suitable delivery mechanisms. It will also meet
the immediate information needs of farmers and rural entrepreneurs through nationwide, multi-media
information campaigns. Finally, it will support adaptive research and extension initiatives and the
provision of private veterinary services. Specifically, the component will do the following:
*   Strengthen the existing Extension Support Center (ESC) in the MOA through technical
assistance, training, and equipment to carry out information campaigns, produce publications on
-11-



farm management and technical topics, and develop a price information system. The ESC will also
manage the creation of rural advisory services which will provide contract extension services.
*   Develop private sector capacity to provide advisory services through contract extension. Two
approaches will be tested for contract extension services in four regional centers. The first will
involve development of rural advisory centers (RACs). The RACs will have a small core staff who
will work with rural inhabitants to identify training and extension needs and to recruit and manage
private specialists to meet those needs. The specialists will be trained and contracted to provide
training, promote group development to solve common problems (e.g. irrigation, credit, marketing)
and conduct on-farm demonstrations. The amount of contract work offered by the project will
decline over the project life and the specialists will be encouraged to develop their own consulting
activities to supplement the income they earn from contracts with the RAC. The second approach
will involve the contracting out of extension and training services to a service provider (such as a
local Non-Government Organization (NGO) or institute) which will hire and supervise its own
staff. The RAC model will be tested in one location (Nakhchivan) during the first two years and the
extension contract will be tested in a second location (Ganja). At the mid-term review, a decision
will be made on which mechanism to use in the remaining two areas during phase one and in
subsequent phases.
*   Support agricultural research and technology transfer. The project will fund technical
assistance, training, equipment, and studies to provide farms with access to improved technologies.
The project will encourage on-farm experimentation and demonstration of new varieties and inputs,
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) practices, weed control techniques, and seeding practices. The
project will also support adaptive research and technology transfer on promising productivity
enhancing activities through a competitive grant scheme. The scheme will be administered by an
autonomous Competitive Grant Scheme Board (CGSB) which will be established under the MOA.
The CGSB will be responsible for identifying priority problem areas, soliciting research project
proposals for these areas, and for project review, approval and supervision. The CGSB will
consist of a Chairman, appointed by the MOA, and ten members from various stakeholders in the
agricultural community with the majority of the members selected from the private sector and
NGOs. Finally, the project will assist through studies, training and workshops in the evaluation of
the existing research system and the development of a national strategy for reforming and
modernizing agricultural research in the country.
3   Develop veterinary services. The project will finance the establishment of Veterinary Field Units
(VFUs) in the five regions covered by the component. They will be staffed by private veterinarians
working under contract with the State Veterinary Committee (SVC). The VFUs will provide
treatment for sick animals, prophylactic vaccinations and advice on animal care and improved
animal productivity. Once the VFUs are operating, the private veterinarians will also participate in
currently on-going Government disease control programs for such diseases as brucellosis, anthrax
and foot and mouth disease. The contracts will cover the costs of services such as disease control
which are essentially public goods. Other services including drugs and vaccines for diseases not
under SVC control will be paid by beneficiaries.
Rural Finance Component
This component supports a pilot initiative designed to increase the availability in rural areas of
market-based credit and deposit services for rural households, enterprises and farms. The component
comprises two sets of pilot activities, including: (i) the creation of a distribution network of LFIs for rural
-12-



financial services consisting of approximately 80 credit cooperatives and 200 groups of jointly liable
borrowers;: and (ii) a rural credit line to the participating LFIs for allocation of sub-loans to their members.
The credit line will be made available during the transition until viable banks or other market-based lenders
can provide their own funds. An institution with sufficient international experience, financial means, and
the willingness to accept the risk for at least 20 percent of each loan to LFIs will be selected on a
competitive basis to implement this component. The implementing institution will be responsible for: (i)
providing technical assistance and training to the LFIs to be established under the project; (ii) managing the
credit line on behalf of the Government of Azerbaijan; and (iii) cofinancing 20 percent of each loan made to
participating LFIs. The selected implementing agency will enter into an agency and co-financing agreement
with the Government that will cover the terms and conditions for the technical assistance (TA) and the
arrangements for operation of the credit line, including the provisions for risk sharing.
The LFIs
Credit cooperatives and borrowers' groups will be supported to allow local communities to choose
the best structure for their needs in face of the diversity in demand for financial services in rural
Azerbaijan.
Credit Cooperatives will be formal, sound, and competitive financial institutions with a wide
ownership and clientele base. They will be incorporated under the "law on enterprises" most likely as
limited liability enterprises. They will provide comparatively simple savings and credit services to their
owner-clients. Their credit services will be funded with (i) equity contributions and deposits from their
members; and (ii) funds on-lent by IDA and the qualified institution selected to implement the credit
component. The selected implementing agency will provide CCs with assistance to become incorporated
and licensed as well as with adequate accounting procedures, management information systems, portfolio
monitoring instruments, internal control procedures, operational manuals, training packages, and design of
product mix. The project will also finance an initial start-up package of office equipment, a safe, and
furniture so that each CC has a proper and secure place to do business. CCs created and licensed under the
component will be regulated financial intermediaries under the authority of the ANB which has agreed to
facilitate their licensing. The ANB will also supervise CC compliance with all relevant prudential norms
and legal requirements. Although the selected implementing agency will offer assistance to CCs to comply
with these requirements, CCs will retain their responsibility for complying with all requirements imposed
by ANB. A complete set of prudential norms and regulations have been drafted and were discussed with
the Government and the ANB during appraisal (annex 11). Adoption of prudential guidelines and
development of a supervision mechanism satisfactory to IDA will be conditions of disbursement for
the credit component.
Groups of Jointly liable Borrowers. This second type of LFI will be groups of borrowers with 10
to 20 individual farmers and micro-entrepreneurs. These groups, also known as "village banks," will
provide an additional channel for funds to accommodate those borrowers for whom membership in a CC is
not possible or desirable. These groups will be particularly important for micro-entrepreneurs in smaller
rural localities, where there may not be a large enough population to support the fixed-cost structure
required for properly functioning CCs.
The Project will help organize the groups and help individuals within these groups obtain sub-loans
on the basis of their joint liability. Social capital in the form of existing character information, peer
monitoring, and local enforcement will help to guarantee the group's repayment. Groups of borrowers will
not need legal incorporation nor a ANB license as their members will only borrow project funds as physical
persons and will not be allowed to collect deposits from the public. They will be provided with simple
-13-



portfolio monitoring tools.
These groups of borrowers are not expected to be permanent organizations. Upon completion of
the project, individual group members will be encouraged to seek alternative sources of financing which
may include the CCs created under the project or banks. The option of joining a CC will also be available
to individual members whose credit needs grow beyond the maximum amount of sub-loans for individual
members of the groups (expected to be US $900). Sustainability concerns of creating transitory borrower
groups will be addressed by protecting the real value of the loans to the groups through market rates and
aggressive loan recovery efforts.
Rural Credit Line
The component will include a US$11.5 million credit line to participating LFIs for allocation of
sub-loans to finance eligible sub-projects. At least 20 percent (US$2.3 million) of this amount will be
provided by the selected implementing agency. Key features of the credit line include the following:
*   A Rural Credit Facility (RCF) which will enter into credit contracts with, disburse loans to, and
collect repayments from participating LFIs. The RCF will not be a legal entity nor separate
administrative structure. Instead it will comprise an Agency Agreement between the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the selected implementing agency, and project accounts in a designated
Treasury Bank. The Agency Agreement will provide the authority to: (i) negotiate and sign credit
contracts with Participating LFIs (PLFIs) on behalf of the MOF; (ii) enforce, legally if necessary.
credit contracts with PLFIs or their members on behalf of the MOF; (iii) issue disbursement orders
to the Treasury Bank in favor of eligible CCs or to obtain cash advances to disburse credit in cash
to the individual members of eligible borrower groups; and (iv) collect interest and principal
payments from PLFIs. The Agency Agreement will also describe the responsibilities of the
implementing agency for: (i) determining the eligibility of PLFIs and monitoring their continued
eligibility to intermediate credit line funds; (ii) maintaining adequate documentation supporting
every stage of the credit line operation; and (iii) immediately depositing any collected interest and
principal payments from PLFIs into the RCF bank accounts.
*   Eligibility Criteria for CCs will based on institutional development plans including time-bound
performance indicators. The project will assist in the development of these plans as part of the
component's implementation. Eligibility criteria drawn from the current Government regulations
and performance indicators will include: (i) minimum capital of US$ 5,000 equivalent as required
by ANB regulations; (ii) minimum loan collections of 85 percent of amounts due; (iii) limited
subsidy dependence (Subsidy Dependence Index of less than 35 percent at the end of the second
year of operations and declining from the first year); (iv) compliance with all prudential norms; and
(v) appropriate administrative structure and business procedures.
*   Eligible Borrowers and Sub-projects. Eligible borrowers will be small rural entrepreneurs
(farmers, service providers, traders and cottage industry producers) with at least one year's
experience. They will borrow as individuals (physical entities) though their enterprises may be
incorporated as legal entities.  Short to medium term  investments to expand existing rural
enterprises will be eligible for financing. Loans for tobacco production or processing, land and
assets previously used within the rural sector (except breeding livestock), and for refinancing
existing debt will be ineligible. Sub-projects must also comply with environmental laws and
standards in force in Azerbaijan. CCs will be responsible for (i) evaluating loan applications and
(ii) verifying that borrowers and sub projects are eligible. For borrower groups, the selected
-14-



implementing agency will verify borrower and sub project eligibility.
*   Sub-loans. The expected terms and conditions of the sub-loans financed under the component are
detailed in Annex 5. Estimates for the average balance and terms to maturity for loans issued by
CCs are based on business plans generated from data collected for a range of agricultural,
livestock, and non-farm micro-enterprise activities in the country's rural areas. Based on these
business plans, the average size of short- and long-term CC loans are estimated at US$600 and
US$1,000, respectively.  The average terms to maturity for short- and long-term loans are
estimated at six and 12 months respectively. The maximum total outstanding sub-loans granted to
a single CC borrower will be US$5,000 equivalent and the maximum repayment term for CC
sub-loans will be 24 months. Sub-loans allocated to members of borrower groups will start at
US$300 and gradually increase up to US $900 equivalent in maximum outstanding loans and will
have a maturity of up to nine months. The LFIs will negotiate all other sub-loan conditions
including interest rates on the basis of prevailing local market conditions. The sub-loans will be in
Manat with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk. The interest rate to the LFIs will be
set semi-annually at the six month auction rate of the ANB. For the CCs funds will be on-lent at
this auction rate, and they will set the final interest rate to their borrowers based on market
conditions. For the borrower groups, sub-loans will be on-lent at the ANB six month auction rate
plus 15 percent. CCs will repay the loans in quarterly installments over 36 month, including a
grace period on principal of 12 months. Groups of borrowers will repay on back-to-back
conditions.
Rural Policy Component
This component will help establish a Rural Policy Unit. The unit will assist the Government to
develop a strategy to maintain the competitiveness of agriculture in face of the potential impact on the real
exchange rate of developments in the oil sector and related issues of agricultural sector management. The
Unit will undertake analysis of the policy and investment options for rural sector management in the
context of oil revenues and will assist in the preparation of an investment plan for the agricultural sector,
with an appropriate balance between public investment (irrigation, power and road networks) and public
services (research, extension and marketing).
The Unit will be created in the Agricultural Policy Department of the Ministry of Economy and
will be staffed by three Azeri professionals (Project Director, Macroeconomist and  Infrastructure
Specialist. Short term external technical support will be provided to the Unit at the start-up and on an
intermittent basis. The Unit will be supervised by a Steering Committee comprising policy-makers from the
Cabinet of ministers and the concerned line ministries and Committees. The Unit will, to the extent
possible, involve local Azeri specialists from local research institutions in its work through commissioned
research, and through participation in policy seminars and training activities. The project will provide
technical assistance, training and equipment to support the establishment of the unit. The Government
will establish the Rural Policy Unit by January 31, 2000.
Project Management Unit
The project will finance the additional staff, equipment, technical assistance and training required
by the Project Management Unit for the Farm Privatization Project so that it can assume responsibility for
the implementation of the new project.
-15-



. indice-   -Bank.                 % of
component                    Sector          oa ts    % of   -financ ;n bank-
(lJS$M)    Total    -3SAL  financing
Real Estate Registration                                 5.44        16.2      5.06       16.9
Rural Finance                                            15.29       45.4     13.00       43.3
Information and Advisory Services                        9.99        29.7      9.54       31.8
Rural Policy Unit                                        0.78         2.3      0.70        2.3
Project Management Unit                                  2.15         6.4       1.70       5.7
Total Proiect Costs                     33.65      100.0      30.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     33.65       100.0     30.00      100.0
In addition to IDA financing, the implementing agency is expected to finance 20 percent of each
sub-loan to the CCs and borrower's groups which will total $2.3 million. Agreement on such financing will
be a pre-requisite for bidding on the technical assistance package. In the event that such financing is not
forthcoming the Government will be responsible for finding alternative sources of financing.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Land Administration: The project will support Government's land reform and privatization
program through the development of registration services for new rural land owners, and pilot initiatives to
unify registration of all rights to urban and rural real estate including buildings. The provision of
registration services will assist in the development of real estate markets and promote the use of real estate
as collateral.
Rural Finance The component will support the Government's long term strategy to develop
financial markets in rural areas which includes actions in the legal and institutional framework for credit
transactions and financial intermediaries. Project preparation activities are supporting (through a Japanese
Grant) the Goverrnent's strategy by (i) developing the implementation rules for a recently passed law on
secured transactions and (ii) preparing options for registration of interests secured with movable assets, in
accordance with this new law. These two actions will allow effective use of movable assets such as
inventories of inputs and standing crops as collateral for rural loans. The Japanese Grant is also financing
development of a complete set of prudential norms for CCs as well as the procedures and instruments
required to supervise their compliance together with reporting requirements, supervisory triggers, and
licensing steps at the ANB.
The development of a distribution network for retail financial services in rural areas will permit the
Government to maintain its current sound policies in the sector. In particular, the Government has not
yielded to pressures from rural interest groups to allocate targeted and subsidized credit lines to the sector.
The existence of a sustainable distribution network will also provide Government greater flexibility in
deciding the future of the Agroprom Bank, until now the only financial intermediary with rural offices.
Rural Advisory Services. At present no public sector agricultural extension service exists, as this
function was previously handled by agronomists assigned by the Government to individual state and
collective farms. The project calls for a mixed public/private approach to improving the access of the
farming community to technical, management, and market information. The project also incorporates
mechanisms to assure that farmers and other rural stakeholders have a role in decision making concerning
extension and research programs and activities.
-16-



3. Benefits and target population:
This project will benefit the new farming community, especially family farms. Each component
contributes to this end either directly or indirectly. The Real Estate Registration component will underpin
the emerging land market, enabling the rural community to buy and sell land in a transparent way and to
use land as collateral for credit. The Rural Finance component will address rural financing requirements
through a new and sustainable rural financial system, the benefits of which will accrue to all households
who participate in the formation of CCs and groups of borrowers as members, depositors, and borrowers.
Relieving constraints on credit and deposit services for rural households will help improve productivity and
household income. Better rural finance services also will promote local off-farm businesses which in turn
will improve the economic environment for farmers and open opportunities for specialization in higher
value produce. The Information and Advisory Service component will deliver services tailored to
requirements of emerging farms and other rural entrepreneurs. It will provide benefits in the form of
improved management and technical know how which will improve productivity and incomes. The
Agricultural Strategy will benefit the rural population by identifying a sustainable framework for
Government interventions in the rural sector over the coming decade. This framework should lead to more
efficient public investment in of expected oil revenues in irrigation and other rural infrastructure and
improved services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing Agencv. Overall project management and coordination will take place through the
existing Commission on Project Implementation and Project Management Unit (PMU) for the Farm
Privatization Project. The PMU will report directly to the First Deputy Prime Minister who is responsible
for agrarian reform and who heads the Commission on Project Implementation. The PMU will be
responsible for overseeing project implementation and coordinating project activities and will supervise
implementation of annual work programs, monitoring, evaluation and reporting. It will also undertake
financial management and procurement of goods and services. Project implementation will be by the
respective line agencies. They will be responsible for the preparation of the annual work program,
implementation, and reporting on progress (see page 29 for a discussion of institutional capacity for each
component).
The Real Estate Registration component will be implemented through the SLC, which currently is
responsible for the rural land registration exercise. The SLC is establishing ten regional centers which will
be responsible for decentralized registration services. The SLC will appoint a staff member from the
central office to manage the component and coordinate with the regional offices and the PMU on
developing work programs and implementation issues. For the pilot in Nakhchivan a steering group with
members drawn from the various involved agencies has been established to oversee work programming and
implementation.
Within the Farm Advisory Services component, management capacity will be created at two levels:
the ESC within the Ministry of Agriculture will manage the component as whole, while Advisory Centers
will be responsible for the delivery of services to the final beneficiaries. Due to the need for technical
supervision of veterinary contract work and vaccine procurement, the State Veterinary Committee will be
directly responsible for supporting private veterinary development.
The Rural Finance component will be implemented in coordination with the PMU, the MOF and
ANB by an implementing agency to be selected in a competitive bidding process. It is recognized that there
is substantial risk in not identifying the implementing agency prior to board presentation particularly given
-17-



innovative approach of asking the implementing agency to assume some of the credit risk. This situation
arose when the implementing agency identified during project appraisal, an international humanitarian
NGO with long experience in Azerbaijan, suddenly dropped out of the project after appraisal in response to
the demands on its human and financial resources arising from the situation in Kosovo. The risk for the
project is that suitably experienced institutions may not respond to requests for proposals to serve as
implementing agency for the component or if selected may not agree to the terms and conditions of the
assignment. However, rather then delay the project in face of the need for an urgent response to growing
financial constraints in rural Azerbaijan and the Government's strong desire to avoid further delay, it was
decided to move ahead with the project processing while taking steps to mitigate the risk that suitable
implementing arrangements may not be concluded. In this regard, the Bank has received four letters of
intent to bid from qualified institutions.
Under the proposed implementation arrangement, the selected implementing agency will enter into
an IDA-financed Agency and Cofinancing Agreement to cover the costs involved in: (i) establishing,
chartering, licensing, and training LFIs; (ii) elaborating institutional development plans for LFIs and
monitoring key time-bound indicators of LFI performance; and (iii) allocating RFC funds and its own funds
to co-finance on-lending by LFIs to their individual members. Moreover, the Agency and Cofinancing
Agreement, to be signed between the MOF and the selected implementing agency, will spell out the
respective roles and responsibility of the Government and the implementing agency in the administration of
the credit facility. The agency and cofinancing agreement with the Government will commit the
implementing agency to recruit expatriate and local staff to implement the component with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Government and IDA. The Government will sign an agency and
cofinancing agreement with a qualified implementing agency acceptable to IDA by no later than
March 31, 2000.
Although the selected implementation agency will not assume credit risk on IDA funds, it will be
required to take at least 20 percent of the credit risk of lending to LFIs. The proposed risk sharing
arrangement will cause the implementing agency to co-finance one fifth of every subloan to LFIs financed
under the project. This implementation arrangement has been introduced specifically to align the
implementing agency incentives with those of the the Government in terms of diligent and cautious
screening of LFIs and aggressive collection of loans financed. under the component.
To assure that the implementing agency focuses on satisfactory implementation of the component,
and on the enforcement of credit discipline, the Government has agreed that specific obligations will be
included in the Agency and Cofinancing Agreement to mitigate risks other then credit risks. Specifically,
as stipulated in the credit agreement and the minutes of negotiation, the Government has agreed that: (i) the
selected implementing agency will have the right to repatriate at the end of project implementation all the
funds it has converted into Manat in order to participate in the credit line plus all interest earned as a result
of its participation; and (ii) it will be able to enforce credit contracts in Azeri Courts without interference.
These obligations are consistent with the legislation currently in force in the country. Moreover, the
Government is firmly committed to the project and to the need to instill a strong sense of credit discipline
among potential rural borrowers making it unlikely that it will act in a way to weaken the implementing
agency's ability to enforce contracts. Finally, the Government also has agreed to bear the exchange rate
risk on the implementing agency's 20 percent participation in each sub-loan. The exchange risk is not
expected to be significant as the Government has adopted macro-economic policies that have led to stable
exchange rates and these policies are likely to be maintained in the future.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The PMU will be responsible for
-18-



financial management. It will carry out financial accounting and will maintain separate project accounts
and records for project related expenditures in accordance with International Accounting Standards (lAS).
Planning and budgeting will be the responsibility of the respective implementing agencies. Planning will
entail the preparation of an Annual Work Program, with targets established for physical progress. The
project budget will be provided component wise in the annual Estimates of the Government, under the
heads of the implementing agencies. An Annual Work Program and Budget for the Government's fiscal
year 2000, satisfactory to IDA, including the finalization of Government Estimates, with the required
provision of the counterpart funds, will be prepared and approved by January 31, 2000 and for
subsequent fiscal years by November 30 of each year.
The current financial management system in the PMU will satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. The financial management system was established
for the Farm Privatization Project and has performed satisfactorily as evidenced by audits carried out in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). However, the project does not yet have in
place an adequate financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on the status of the project as required by IDA for PMR-based disbursement under the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). An action plan has been agreed with the borrower to
remedy the situation. Consultants will be engaged to design a computer based financial management
system capable of producing the PMR and additional staff will be recruited and trained. It is expected that
enhanced financial management system, including the recruitment and training of needed staff, will be in
place in early 2000.
The PMU will be responsible for preparing the PMR and the statement of expenses and
maintaining the accounts. The accounts will be audited annually according to ISA by independent auditors
acceptable to the IDA and the Government. Audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of the calendar year (Government of Azerbaijan fiscal year). Appointment of independent
auditors acceptable to IDA is be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is particularly important for
APLs as the results of M&E are crucial in the design of subsequent phases. For this project the PMU will
design and implement a separate monitoring and reporting system (Annex 12). Capacity will be
strengthened within the PMU to coordinate M&E activities across various departments and local offices of
the MOA. The PMU will adequately staff itself with, in addition to the monitoring coordinator, a
monitoring specialist, short and long-term consultants and will out-source, as appropriate, specialized
studies and social impact assessments.
The M&E system will be based on the logical framework presented in Annex 1, and the
Monitoring and Evaluation Guidelines in Annex 12. Specific output and impact indicators were agreed
during negotiations. The baseline exercise for Social Impact Monitoring will ideally be undertaken in the
first three months of project effectiveness (however, this can change due to the time-sensitive nature of
agricultural activity) and will be repeated every year during the same period. Other M&E results will be
reviewed in quarterly report, which will be consolidated into bi-annual reports which will be submitted for
IDA review. The results will also be discussed in a participatory approach involving major stakeholders for
each component and periodically reviewed by a panel of local experts. The results of M&E will also form
the basis for a mid-term review, which will be held by no later then March 2002. An Implementation
Completion Report will be prepared six months after the final disbursement of the loan.
-19-



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Detailed Design Alternatives
Real Estate Registration Component: Project support for maintaining land registration functions
at the State Land Committee headquarters was considered and rejected because access to a centralized
registry for rural inhabitants will be difficult and expensive. It was also decided to pilot mechanisms for a
unified real estate registration system rather then move immediately into national implementation of such a
system given the difficult legal and institutional issues that will need to be resolved. The pilot is intended
as a vehicle to address these issues in a systematic and thorough manner before nationwide implementation
begins in subsequent phases.
Information and Advisory Service Component: Supporting the development of a pure public
sector extension service was considered and rejected. The approach to the rural advisory function proposed
in the project recognizes that private advisory services are already beginning to operate and that these offer
the best prospect of providing support for the wide-ranging technical needs of farmers in the longer term.
The project will encourage the private sector for advisory services. However, public sector capacity for
planning and delivering public good extension will be retained. As there are no clear economies of scale in
the central provision of advisory services, the design emphasizes decentralized planning and management of
public good services, in view of ensuring responsiveness and accountability to the farming community.
The alternative of providing extension services solely through the competitive grant scheme was
considered and rejected because local knowledge and feedback mechanisms are critical for the success of
extension efforts. The proposed approach of using RAC's to oversee the provision of training and
extension activities at the local level is designed to ensure responsiveness and accountability to the farming
community.
Rural Finance Component: A large number of design issues were considered in this component
including:
*   Agroprom Bank. An alternative approach would be to invest into the accelerated restructuring of
the Agroprom Bank as the basis for future development of the rural finance network. This
approach was rejected in view of the slow progress experienced in the existing Agroprom
restructuring program and the widespread mistrust of Agroprom Bank in the rural community.
Moreover, relying on a restructured Agroprom would not address the issue of high cost and high
risk lending traditionally faced by formal sector institutions in rural areas.
* Local Finance Companies. Another approach considered was to assist large rural entrepreneurs
such as agricultural traders, processors and input suppliers in establishing local finance companies
to extend advances on future delivery of crops or sell inputs on credit. The proposal was rejected
because they were likely to have access to other funding sources. Also, complex skills and
procedures would be required to assess credit worthiness and to monitor proper use of project
funds by the proposed local finance companies.
*   Establishing an Apex Institution for Credit Cooperatives. The idea of creating an Apex
institution for the CCs at the beginning of component implementation was rejected because
properly functioning Apex enterprises require significant equity investments which may be difficult
to obtain from the Apex's potential members--themselves fledging intermediaries. Moreover the
-20-



presence of another level of intermediary tends to increase the cost of loanable funds. These costs
tend to offset any benefits of an Apex institution including the flexibility it brings in intermediating
loanable funds between individual cooperatives. Nevertheless, establishment of an Apex may take
place at any point during project implementation, should CCs wish to invest their resources in
creating a second tier cooperative intermediary. If circumstances seem to merit this approach at a
later date, IDA support could be considered in the APL's second phase.
*   Creating a New Financial Institution. Creation of a new financial institution to provide credit to
individual private farms or rural enterprises was rejected because: (i) prospects for its privatization
following project implementation are uncertain as potential private investors may not be interested
in rural finance; (ii) a Government-owned institution could be vulnerable to political influence; and
(iii) credit cooperatives based on grass-roots initiatives and local management provided a better
opportunity to serve the financing needs of large numbers of small borrowers; and (iv) the
Government had already taken important steps to create the necessary legal and regulatory
framework for credit cooperatives.
*   PMU Management of the Credit Line. Using the PMU to distribute credit line funds to LFIs.
was considered and rejected because: (a) the PMU might be vulnerable to political influence and
might not have the expertise required; and (b) the PMU might have weak incentives to carefully
screen LFIs and to aggressively collect on "govermnent's" loans. The presence of an aggressive
agent with an interest in collecting the loans and access to international experts is considered a key
element in project design. To assure this interest the selected implementing agency will risk at least
20 percent of every loan to LFIs financed under the component.
-   Lending through Commercial Banks. Lending the credit line through commercial banks was
rejected because: (a) few Azeri Banks have branches outside of Baku; (b) the existing banking
system is under capitalized and is undergoing dramatic consolidation as a result of the
Government's aggressive restructuring of the financial sector; (c) the existing donor financed credit
lines are experiencing very slow disbursements; and (d) the banks do not have the mechanisms
(such as group lending) in place to reduce the costs and risks of lending to the rural sector.
Simply put, the banking system has no capacity to serve large numbers of retail customers
dispersed in numerous small rural localities.
*   Hiring Consultants to Manage the Credit Component. The option of hiring consultants to
implement the credit component on a purely agency basis with no risk-sharing mechanism was
carefully considered. The option was rejected because of the extreme difficulty in developing a
contract that provides sufficiently robust incentives for good performance. Requiring the selected
implementing agency to share the credit risks provides simple, transparent, and strong incentives
for good performance.
Cost Recovery. Full cost recovery for the RACs under the information and advisory component
and for registration of transactions in land was considered and rejected. For the RAC's it was
recognized that the extension activities they supported included a mixture of public and private goods
which would be difficult to separate in determining a cost recovery mechanism. Moreover, until the
services are established and their worth demonstrated cost recovery would be problematic. The
component will, however, encourage private advisors to develop their own client base for advice for
which they could charge fees. Moreover, during implementation opportunities to introduce charges for
activities that are private in nature will be examined. Such activities would involve services to
individuals contracted through the RACs. For the land registration services fees for registering land
transactions will be introduced from the outset, but it is recognized that these fees will unlikely cover
-21-



the costs of the maintaining the registry system particularly given that initially the registry will only
cover agricultural lands for which the number of transactions are likely to be small.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue            I          Project                 Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Testing mechanisms for Farm         Farm Privatization Project         S              S
Privatization, on farm irrigation
rehabilitation, farm services
Piloting interventions for rehabilitation  Pilot Reconstruction Project  S            S
of war-affected areas of Azerbaijan
Environment                         Urgent Environment Project          S             S
Irrigation rehabilitation and reform of  Irrigation Project under
irrigation management               preparation for FY'00
Other development agencies
Micro Finance                       F1NCA, World Vision, Relief
International
Banking, and rural Finance          TACIS, USAID, IFC, EBRD
Advisory Services                   TACIS, ACDI/VOCA
Land Registration, Land Law         TACIS
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Real Estate Registration Lessons: Experience with land titling projects show a mixed picture.
According to a review of World Bank Projects - "The World Bank's experience with Rural Land Titling"
(report no. 1992-35 - March 1992) the factors contributing to poor performance in Bank-financed projects
include (i) lack of political support; (ii) conflicting bureaucratic priorities; (iii) lack of institutional
capacity; and, (iv) underestimation of the complexity and or costs. Conversely, lessons from the successful
Thailand project are: (i) simple project design, with clear institutional responsibility; (ii) strong Government
comnmitment; (iii) gradual increases in cost recovery; and, (iv) efficient use of new technologies. In the
proposed component, the initial focus is on developing a simple registry operated by a single institution for
land titles that have already been issued as part of the rural land privatization process. The more complex
institutional, legal and policy issues surrounding the development of a unified real estate registration system
will be tested through a pilot initiative in an limited geographical area with a committed and autonomous
Government structure. Cost recovery will be pursued through the introduction of fees for registration of
transactions that will balance cost recovery objectives with the willingness to pay for registry services.
Information and Advisory Services Lessons: International experience indicates that successful
investment in extension requires:
*   Government commitment On-going  reforms provide a favorable environment for the
development of profitable and sustainable farming, and Government is committed to finance
-22-



information and advisory services. However, this commitment may not be sustained unless these
services rapidly prove their worth;
* Financial sustainability. It is accepted that farmers are currently not in a position to pay for IA
services, but cost recovery should be the ultimate aim for all services which have a private good
character;
*   Empowering farmers to influence extension policies, programs and activities, through adequate
representation in governing bodies at local, regional and national level;
*   Recognizing the diversity of needs of different categories of rural entrepreneurs, and of the need
for different channels and mechanisms to serve their distinct requirements; and
* Constant monitoring of changes in practices and technology (within/outside the country), in
markets and in the economic environment, and a capacity to analyze the implications of these
changes and adjust policies accordingly.
Rural Finance Lessons Learned. Although there is evidence that credit programs can raise living
standards and increase farm productivity; it is also agreed that isolated interventions only in credit markets
do not have a significant impact on the living standards of rural populations. Complementary actions, such
as investment in perfecting property rights on land and increasing access to information on input and output
markets are also necessary to make rural finance an effective tool in developing rural areas. Although
project design does not try to solve all development bottlenecks in rural Azerbaijan, it provides specific
actions in three other key related areas (ii) land registration, (ii) farm advisory services, and (iii) rural
policies.
To be successful, rural financial intermediaries must operate within a conducive policy,
institutional, and legal framework. There has been significant progress in these dimensions (a) the
Agroprom restructuring program removed a poorly run government institution lending directed credit at
low rates and (b) the new "Law on Mortgage" will afford the possibility to effectively use movable rural
assets as collateral for loans. Furthermore, in Azerbaijan there is already a complete legal framework for
the incorporation and regulation of CCs. The project will assist the ANB in supervising CC compliance
with all prudential norms. International experience with unregulated CCs is mixed in terms of performance
and viability. These cooperatives often collapse spectacularly requiring government bail-outs or significant
losses for often unsophisticated depositors.
The effective provision of financial services in rural areas must follow sensible business practices
if they are to be self-sustainable. That is, services offered and the technologies used must be appropriate.
The selected implementing agency will provide assistance to LFIs to become incorporated and licensed and
also to adopt adequate accounting procedures, management information systems, portfolio monitoring
instruments, internal control procedures, operational manuals, training packages, and design of product
mix. The Project approach is also consistent with the mounting consensus that the development (but not
the lending operations) of LFIs needs to be subsidized in the first years. The technical support for the
development of the LFIs by the selected implementing agency will be provided on a grant basis.
Recent literature on microfinance programs, including those in Bangladesh, indicate that rural and
microfinance are effective policy instrument for reducing poverty among those individuals who are able to
use loans productively and who have the necessary skills to become self-employed. The target clientele
should be, therefore, entrepreneurs with existing businesses from which loans can be repaid. Credit
-23-



availability does not necessarily translate into entrepreneurial ability. Project design has incorporated these
lessons by requiring sub-borrowers to have at least one year of experience as entrepreneurs to be eligible
for the credit facility.
Donor funded projects with restricted investment purposes (e.g. only for agriculture) often hinders
the development of rural financial markets. Furthermore, the fungability of credit makes it futile to target
credit certain activities, while the supervision required to enforce targeting makes the provision of loans to
small entrepreneurs prohibitively expensive. Under the credit facility, all investments to expand legitimate
rural enterprises will be eligible sub projects The only exceptions will be investments in land, existing
buildings, other assets previously used within the rural sector (except breeding livestock) and tobacco
production and processing.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The principal indication of Government commitment lies in the resolution with which the reform
process in agriculture has been pursued, especially since 1996, with strong measures to rapidly effect land
distTibution and privatization, the privatization of agro-industry and structural change to government
institutions in the sector. In addition, the Government has moved rapidly to address the emergence of legal
constraints to the development of grass-roots credit organizations, and the National Bank has approved the
Statutes for Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries, which provides a flexible instrument for development of
this sector. The specific components of the project have all been requested by and discussed with
Government during the Agricultural Sector Review mission of October-November 1997 and the
Preparation Mission of June-July 1998.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank brings to the project considerable experience in the implementation of similar activities
both in the region and world wide. For the real estate registration component the Bank is financing such
projects throughout the FSU and has built considerable expertise in the design and implementation of
project interventions to support the development of registration systems. Similarly, the Bank is building
solid experience in the design of agricultural knowledge systems in the region and is able to bring this
experience to bear in the testing of mechanisms for Azerbaijan. Finally, the Bank offers several advantages
in rural finance when compared to other potential financing institutions and donor agencies, including: (i)
close familiarity with the functioning of successful rural financial intermediaries in other regions such as
Asia and Latin America; (ii) recent experience in the region in the design and implementation of similar
projiects, especially in Moldova and Georgia. The Bank's dialogue with the Government has already
brought about a legal framework for CCs and it is assisting with the developing of an appropriate
regulatory and supervisory framework.
Conditions in Azerbaijan are favorable for Bank support to be used productively. This is because
Government is strongly committed to reforms in the rural sector, as witnessed particularly in the fields of
lancd reform and enterprise privatization. An additional favorable element is the quality of the dialogue with
Government. The other side of the coin is that Bank should move fast and the support should be flexible in
order to adjust to a rapidly changing situation and provide solutions when required rather than after
decisive choices have already been made.
-24-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
The economic justification for the program as a whole stems from the low level of productivity to
which the sector has fallen during the transition period and the associated potential for substantial economic
benefits deriving from actions which remove the key constraints to renewed growth in the sector. The
economic case for phase 1 of the project is nested within the wider economic justification for the program
as a whole: The project component activities will generate the measurable benefits at the farm level
anticipated during the later phases of the APL. Methodologically, the components of the project are
appraised in terms of either cost effectiveness measures (Land Registration and Information and Advisory
services) or financial rate of return and sustainability of the institutions being developed (Credit
Cooperatives).
The need for economic analysis distinct from fnancial analysis hinges on the presence of
significant distortions in the economy. However, in Azerbaijan agrarian reform is well advanced, and there
is little justification for separate economic analysis since all major distortions between domestic and border
prices have been removed. The summary project economic and financial analysis presented here
accordingly concentrates on: (i) identifying the principal sources of economic benefit which provide the
justification for the program as a whole, and (ii) financial return analysis or cost effectiveness analysis of
the Phase 1 components. No attempt has been made to calculate an overall economic/financial rate of
return for the project as a whole because its impossible to determine what new more productive activities
will be financed or encouraged by the various components. However, as long as the portfolio of activities
financed by the project performs well this can be taken as a reasonable indication that the rate of return to
the project exceeds the opportunity cost of capital.
The economic benefits from Land Registration occur at both the household level and the market
level. Economic benefits at the household arise from: (i) the registration of secure titles to ownership of
land which will increase incentives for productivity-enhancing investment in land; and (ii) improvement in
the standing of households as potential borrowers through making land usable as collateral. Functioning
land markets will yield: (i) improved resource allocation efficiency as land transactions permit the
progressive shift of land ownership and management into the hands of those most able to achieve high
productivity and returns from exploitation of the land, and (ii) a saving in transactions cost as a reliable
registration/land transfer system is implemented at local (regional) level, saving land transactors from
traveling to Baku to effect their transactions.
Benefits from the Information and Advisory Services Component will arise from: (i) the public
information campaigns which will inform farmers of their rights and obligations in respect of land
privatization, tax issues, credit cooperative formation, and market transactions leading to a greater
transparency of these key aspects of farm operations; (ii) creation of a cadre of trained extension specialists
who are trained and experienced in the delivery of extension support to farmers and agro-processors; (iii)
the provision of training to farmers through short courses which will lead to a more efficient farm
operations; (iv) the development of private veterinary services will help integrate a large number of
qualified veterinarians released from the state and collective farms into the privatized farm economy and
lead to improved animal health, better animal nutrition and higher livestock productivity; and (v) the
development of farm technologies in conjunction with research institutions which will provide cost-effective
-25-



technologies to be disseminated through the trained extension providers.
The main economic benefits of the Rural Credit Component will stem from: (i) increased
intensity of farm cultivation in farms and level of operations of other rural entrepreneurs receiving loans
resulting in increased farm output, income and reduced poverty; (ii) mobilization of rural savings; (iii)
reduced economic distortions in rural credit markets (principally arising from incomplete markets and
segmentation of the market between formal and informal sectors); and (iv) creation of the institutional and
human capital base for the subsequent development of the credit cooperative network, which will eventually
provide flexible channels for intermediation of funds between the formal financial sector and the farmer.
To show the economic impact of project funds lent to potential final borrowers via the rural credit
component's credit line, business plans for approximately 35 agricultural products, livestock, and non-farm
rural micro-enterprise activities were analyzed. These business plans clearly show that total interest
payments for the typical loans likely to be financed under the project's credit facility (e.g., US $1,000 loan
at 30% interest per annum with a 6-month maturity) are very affordable. These interest payments range
from 3% to 43% (15% average) of the calculated net income from these activities. A detailed presentation
of gross margin and financial rate of return calculations for these activities is included in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
The financial analysis of the project is undertaken separately for each component. It uses financial
rate of return analysis of the Rural Credit component and cost-effectiveness measures for the Land
Registration and Information and Advisory Services components.
Rural Credit Component (Financial Rate of Return Analysis): A computerized financial
projection model (CFPM) was developed to assess the financial viability of the CCs that will be created
under the project. The model provides pro-forma balance sheets, income statements, and 40 financial ratios
for a typical CC for the five years following its creation. These results are based on conservative and
realistic assumptions about CC design variables (e.g., financial products, incentive schemes for personnel,
initial investments, and operation costs) and the economic environment in which they will operate (e.g., size
of population served by the CC, outreach to potential clients, market interest rates, macroeconomic
parameters).
The model demonstrates that the provision of financial services in rural areas of Azerbaijan
through CCs could be very profitable provided sensible business practices are followed. The model predicts
very high IRRs on the investments needed to initiate operations of a typical CC. The IRRs on five year
projected cash flows vary from 23% to 79% depending on the method of calculation. The associated NPVs
of five year cash flows at a discount rate of 12% are US $13,691. These positive economic and financial
results are robust in response to changes in key variables such as population size, loan loss rates, and
intermediation margins. The model results, as well as an explanation of the assumptions used in generating
these results, are included in Annex 5.
The model assumes that CCs will charge final borrowers an interest rate of approximately 30% per
annum. However, to achieve and maintain financial viability, CCs will have to on-lend at rates that cover
their financial and administrative costs. An analysis of the self-sustainablilty of CCs presented in Annex 5
includes a break-down of the on-lending rate and shows that the actual on-lending rate charged by CCs will
depend on the ability of the CCs to control primarily operating costs and loan losses through the adoption
of sound business practices. In addition, to achieve self-sustainability, CCs will have to generate profits
while simultaneously eliminating dependence on subsidies. An examination of subsidy dependence is also
included in the analysis on self-sustainability in Annex 5.
-26-



Information and Advisory Services: The cost effectiveness of the Information and Advisory
Services Component is addressed as follows:
*   Information services will largely rely on the use of mass media campaigns with very low cost per
target beneficiary. Six campaigns are planned during phase one. It is estimated that each campaign
will reach about 30 percent of the 750,000 land owners, or about 225,000 beneficiaries each for a
cost of less then one dollar;
*   Alternative mechanisms for the delivery of Advisory services to farmers will be explored in the
first two years of the project to identify the most cost-effective approach which will be adopted
during the latter half of the project and in subsequent phases of the APL. Alternative mechanisms
for the delivery of Advisory services to farmers will be explore in the first two years of the
project to identify the most cost-effective approach which will be adopted during the latter half of
the project and in subsequent phases of the APL. For the RACs the number of farmers attending
training courses are estimated at about 10,000 a year for a cost of about $10 per day of training.
At the mid-term review, the actual costs of delivering services using this approach will be
compared with the costs of contracting an existing institution to provide the services;
*   The cost effectiveness of the veterinary services will be pursued through an approach that
emphasizes the identification of key animal health risks and problems and the concentration of
resources in those areas. The costs of establishing and eqiping the veterinary field units and
training and contracting the staff in the five regions is about $55,000 annually per region. This
translates into an average cost of about $10 to $15 per expected client served. Much of this cost is
expected to be recouped through user fees.
Real Estate Registration:    Cost effectiveness of this component is addressed in the design of
its sub-components:
_   Land Registry: The staff, operating and capital costs of each of the ten regional center are
estimated to be about $25,000 per annum. The offices are expected to serve between six to seven
Raions and cover on average about 80,000 land titles. Experience elsewhere with mature land
markets suggest that land sales requiring registration are usually about four percent of outstanding
titles and with the registration of other transactions (inheritance, gifts, long term leases) the total
number of transactions often reach six percent. Given that the market in Azerbaijan is only
beginning to emerge it is expected that initially the number of transactions requiring registration
will be much smaller then these averages. For the analysis, it is assumed that in the four year
project period the transactions will grow to about 2 percent of the outstanding titles or about 1,600
per year. The resulting per transaction cost of about $16 compares favorably with the estimated
costs of transactions in other parts of the world (Kazakhstan, Guatamala, Russia) and the currently
proposed transaction charge of $12 currently under consideration by the SLC.
*   Unified Cadaster: The cost-effectiveness of the pilot unified registration system should be seen in
the context of the need for piloting an appropriate approach to a unified national cadaster on a
regional basis before devoting the substantial resources required for implementation of national
system. A unified registration system involving urban land and buildings as well as rural
properties usually experience a far greater number of transactions then rural land registries and are
often the source of considerable Government revenues.
-27-



Fiscal Impact:
Overall the program supported by this project is expected to have a positive fiscal impact as
income growth will yield higher tax revenues. For the first phase project the fiscal impact is expected to be
minimal though not insignificant. The incremental recurrent costs amount to about $3.2 million or about
10 percent of total project costs. On an annual basis this amount is equal to less than one percent of the
Government's current annual expenditures. The impact will be largest for the information and advisory
component where incremental annual recurrent expenditures are about $300,000 or about ten percent of the
annual Ministry of Agriculture budget. The incremental recurrent expenditures for the regional land
registration offices is about $120,000 or four percent of the annual budget for the SLC. However, cost
recovery measures are expected to offset much of this expenditure.
IDA will finance incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis throughout the life of the project
beginning at 90 percent of incremental costs in year one and declining to 60 percent by year four.
Government's share of recurrent cost to be financed from budgetary resources amounts to an annual
average of $300,000 over the life of the project or about 0.07 percent of the total budgetary expenditures.
3. Technical:
In the rural credit component the CCs will receive training from the implementing agency in
technical subjects such as appraisal of sub-projects, accounting procedures, management of cash flows,
internal control, and environmental screening. The ANB will receive assistance in the design and
implementation of a modern system to supervise (off-site and on-site) new and potentially numerous
financial intermediaries.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The capability of the State Land Committee, the executing agency for the Land
Registration Component, has been built up by the on-going Farm Privatization Project, and has been
demonstrated in the rapid processing of the 790,000 land titles for privatized agriculture. Under the FPP
more then 30 senior and middle management staff of the SLC headquarters and more then 50 staff
stationed in the field received training in land registration principles and procedures. The latter figure
includes 18 staff in Nakhchivan who will form the core of the staff working on the pilot initiative.
Moreover, the FFP as well as TACIS have provided considerable equipment and computers to the SLC
which has been instrumental in its ability to process the land titles. The project will supplement this
equipment and training with a focus on the development of capacity in the regional centers. The SLC has
already taken steps to establish the regional centers required for the agricultural land registry system and to
a large degree the existing staff and facilities in the SLC will provide the capacity for the implementation of
project component.
The Ministry of Agriculture is the implementing agent for the Information and Advisory Services
component of the project. The Extension Services Center created in the Ministry with support from the
Farm Privatization Project forms the core of competence and capability for implementation of the new
project. Nearly 50 staff of the ministry have received training in extension and training management and in
the production of information material for publication or distribution through the media. Moreover, the
FPP has provided equipment and technical assistance to support the preparation and distribution of
information. This training and equipment forms the basis for the expanded activities in the ESC
contemplated under the existing project. In addition, creation of implementation capacity in the selected
pilot regions is provided for in the component budget and will be either provided through the Regional
Advisory Centers or will be contracted out to research institutions or private sector providers. Capacity
-28-



will be built through the training of staff of the RACs and of the private advisors to be contracted under the
project.
The Rural Credit component will be implemented by an international institution selected in a
competitive tender that will take into account worldwide experience of the bidders with development of
credit cooperatives and micro-finance programs. Candidates for the implementing agency will be drawn
from the world's largest and most experienced cooperative banking institutions with established track
record in the implementation of rural credit programs. The project makes adequate provision for the
selected implementing agency to create the necessary administrative technical capacity to implement the
project and the level and form of support from the implementing agency will be specified contractually.
The Rural Strategy Unit component will be implemented by the Ministry of Economy. This
component is primarily a capacity-building exercise, and the resources for implementation are to a large
extent provided for by the project budget. The Ministry of Economy is the appropriate locus for this
activity, since it has the appropriate strategic position in the government apparatus, above the line agencies
and ministries, but reporting directly to the Cabinet of Ministers.
b. Project management: Management of the project will be the responsibility of the PMU. Initially created
under the Farm Privatization Project, the PMU has now developed the necessary experience and
competence to manage this larger project. All twelve of the PMU core staff have received extensive
training in such topics as project management, accounting, procurement, land registration, extension
management and communications. The new project provides resources to hire ten new staff to undertake
the functions required by implementation of the new components. Resources are also provided for
expanded PMU staff training. Among the staff to be hired will be new financial and accounting staff to
handle the transition to the LACI system of financial management.
5. Social:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are rural households, most of which have recently received
land as part of the Government's farm privatization efforts. A significant portion of these households are
poor and some are headed by women. The Social Assessment (SA) process that has been ongoing during
project identification and appraisal confirmed the demand for the proposed project interventions at the
household level (see Annex 13).
The SA found that there is considerable demand for information and advise in rural areas. There
are two broad categories of information needs including: (a) information on current policies, regulations
and legislation as they relate to rural communities; and (b) specific information for emerging rural
businesses such as technical information on crops and livestock technologies, and information on business
management and marketing. The SA also found that the information needs varied by region highlighting
the need for substantial community input into the design of specific extension and information programs in
the regional centers. In addition, the SA found that gender considerations are important. Women are more
likely then men to establish small home-based crafts businesses or retail trading and their information and
training requirements tend to focus on marketing and small business management. Moreover, there are a
number of women, many of whom were female managers in the former state and collective farms, who are
currently attempting to farm their own land. They need training in business management and technology if
they are to continue farming in largely male-dominated rural areas. Finally, the SA found that while there
is an appreciation among the rural population of the need for information and advice, there is a limited
ability and willingness to pay for this advise. As a result, it has to be recognized that the potential for cost
recovery for information and advisory services is limited at least until the services are established and can
demonstrate their value.
-29-



On the issue of rural finance, the SA found a strong demand for credit, mostly for inputs and
equipment for farming and for working capital to establish small non-farm rural businesses. Moreover,
the close-knit social ties existing in rural areas and low income levels especially among women and the
rural poor make them ideal candidates for assistance through "village bank" type of assistance.  Local
Financial Intermediaries (LFIs) created through the project will employ individuals from the community
who will screen credit applicants based on the their credit-worthiness, local reputation, and joint liability.
The access of rural people to financial services will be greatly increased by: (i) having financial
intermediaries operate in their own localities; (ii) using character based lending rather than complex and
lengthy credit applications; (iii) increasing access to small loans through decreasing transaction costs by
establishing local service windows; (iv) providing services that are consistent with the needs of poor
residents (e.g., deposit accounts with low requirements for minimum balances); and (v) making all
productive economic activities eligible for financing, including those normally dominated by women such as
handicrafts and petty trading in roadside markets. It is expected that disadvantaged groups, including
women, will benefit from the operational principles to be followed by the LFIs.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category E A O C
1 B L FI
Project activities are expected to have a positive impact on environment. The introduction of
advisory services should lead to the adoption of improved and environmentally sound technologies. The
advisory services will include training and advice on Integrated Pest Management (IPM) techniques and for
cotton on biological control measures for the boll weevil. The advisory services will also focus training in
improved use and handling of fertilizers and agro-chemicals and the information unit will develop
pamphlets and other materials on safe handling for agro-chemicals.
Average loan size is expected to be around $1,000 and the majority of loans are expected to be for
inputs, equipment and trading activities with a minimal environmental impact. Nonetheless, a project
checklist with nine different categories of sub-loans and their expected environmental impact will be
provided to the CCs. The implementing agency for the credit component will provide training to the CCs
on the potential environmental impact of loans in each category and of possible mitigating measures. Where
sub-loans involve financing for pesticides, they will be subject to existing Government regulations on
approved products and World Bank OP 4.09. Loans for pesticides will only be made to farmers who have
received training and are certified in the safe handling of the materials and have adequate storage facilities
and application equipment. The implementing agency also will provide training to the staff of the CCs on
the principles of integrated pest management and on the authorized list of pesticides. Finally, where
sub-loans are for agro-processing, including the financing of 'wet' processes where there is a risk of ground
and surface water pollution, the CCs will assure that relevant environmental permits are secured.
During project preparation, the adequacy of Government regulations on the importation, handling
and use of agro-chemicals was assessed. In general the assessment found that the regulatory framework is
adequate, but that the implementation capacity of the regulatory agencies is seriously impaired by
inadequate budgets, and deteriorated facilities.  Under the rural strategy component, a study of the
Government's pest management policy and regulatory environment will be undertaken that will focus on
measures required to strengthen implementation capacity.
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The project is rated as environrnental screening
category B. This rating is justified on the basis of the expected positive impact through the advisory
services of improved farming and land management practices. Furthermore, most loans, as noted above,
will be for inputs and equipment with minimum environmental impact.
-30-



7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The principal direct beneficiaries of the project will be recipients of the rural advisory services,
farmers and other rural households who join the newly-created Local Financial Intermediaries. The project
is designed based on their views and priorities as identified by the findings of the Social Assessment being
undertaken with Bank support. The first phase of the SA comprised five elements: (1) surveys of 900
households and 210 rural women; (2) semi-structured interviews; (3) in-situ observation; (4) focus group
discussions; and (5) a stakeholder seminar. Details can be found in Annex 13 of the PAD.
The second phase of the SA continued to guide the pre-appraisal and appraisal stages. This phase
built on the results and issues identified during the first phase and enlarged the geographical scope of the
SA to 15 additional regions not covered by the first phase. Its methodology included focus group
discussions, in-depth interviews and preparation of case studies. The issues explored included use of
household plots, voluntary group formation, rural decision-making mechanisms, marketing constraints and
the role of women.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Poor rural families depending on both farm and off-farm labor are expected to benefit from the
accelerated recovery of farm output. In addition, these families receive land through the privatization
process and as their rights become legalized, they will have a chance to improve their incomes. The SA
process continues to keep a focus on the rural poor during project preparation so that they obtain the
maximum benefit from project interventions. A similar focus is also incorporated for rural women, who are
heavily disadvantaged as a result of the economic transition process.
Recovery of the agricultural and rural sector will benefit both rural and urban communities. Many
rural households are currently heavily dependent on remittances from relatives in the Baku conurbation.
By identifying key development factors in rural areas, the assessment aims at providing a framework to
provide incentives to rural population to stay in their home areas.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability considerations have been built into the project components as follows:
*   Information and Advisory Services. The Information and Advisory Component is designed to
create capacity in the private sector to provide advise and guidance to emerging farmers and rural
entrepreneurs. The design recognizes that capacity to pay for services is limited at this time in
rural areas and as a result the services provided during the first phase will be subsidized.
However, the private advisors supported by the project will be encouraged to seek private
consulting opportunities in addition to their contract work for the project. Moreover, sustainability
will be pursued by phasing in fees for services, particularly those provided to individuals, where
appropriate.
*   Real Estate Registration.  Land titles resulting from the privatization of former state and
collective farms were prepared and distributed for free. The Government intends to charge fees for
registering subsequent land transactions but the level of fees likely will not lead initially to full cost
-31-



recovery. Such subsidies are justified as the process is new, procedures are still being developed,
and the new land owners have little ability to pay. Nonetheless, as the registry is established, fee
structures for registration services will be reviewed with a view to increasing cost recovery for the
system.
*   Rural Finance.  The development of sustainable rural financial markets depends largely on the
removal of institutional constraints to the efficient functioning of these markets, and the creation of
private financial intermediaries in rural areas. In particular, the component will: (i) improve the
institutional setting so that financial transactions can be secured with movable assets; and (ii) pilot
(and induce CCs to adopt) business practices which will make the provision of financial services to
rural entrepreneurs viable. Finally, the sustainability of project benefits will be assured at the end
of the project because: (i) the business practices promoted by the project will continue to be used;
(ii) the CCs will be sound, regulated, and competitive intermediaries; (iii) the project funds lent
through borrower groups will be available to the Government to fund continued involvement in
rural finance or any other development activity as the real value of these funds will be maintained
throughout the life of the project; and (iv) the ensuing APL phases will provide for follow-up
interventions in rural finance.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Social capital in rural areas may not be     S         1. Communities will be given a choice
strong enough to support credit                        LFI structure that will best serve their
cooperatives and borrowers' groups.                    needs in terms of the social capital
required.
2. Effective functioning of the Law on
Mortgage will reduce the amount of
social capital required to engage in
credit contracts as defaults will be
covered by effective collateral.
CCs may become borrower dominated            H         1. CCs will function under the
(e.g. high arrears, low interest rates on              supervision of the ANB.
loans) and hence, financially not viable               2. The selected implementing agencies
due to the traditional cooperative                     will have a strong pecuniary incentive
governance structure.                                  for careful screening of CCs and
aggressive collection of loans
3. CCs will be incorporated under the
Law of Enterprises rather than under an
specific CC Law. The Law of
Enterprises allows significant room to
modify traditional cooperative
principles that contribute to borrower
domination (e.g., unrestricted entry of
new members)
-32-



Borrower group members may choose         S        1. The implementing agency will have a
to strategically and collectively default          strong pecuniary incentive for carefully
on their project financed loans rendering          screening borrower groups and
their joint liability worthless.                   aggressively collecting of loans.
2. Increases in the amounts of
subsequent loans to individual members
may introduce dynamic incentives for
repayment.
3. The implementing agency will be in a
position to create a rural credit bureau
through its relation with CCs, which
would effectively ostracize
opportunistic borrowers from formal
financial markets.
Government Commitment to                 M         the establishment of regional offices by
decentralized registration services                the SLC is consistent with a broader
weakens                                            effort to decentralize services on part of
the Government. This effort is unlikely
to be reversed.
Agreement can not be reached on the      H          The project's emphasis on developing a
modalities for a Unified Real Estate               pilot and testing mechanisms first while
Registration System                                encouraging internal dialogue should
lead to a satisfactory resolution prior to
the second phase.
For the Information and Advisory         H         1. The project is directly supporting the
Services, rural financial, inputs and              development of markets through its
produce markets do not develop making              components.
the audience for advice and information            2. Government has signaled its intention
unreceptive.                                       to address issues of corruption and
harassment that have hindered market
development.
Services provided by the information      S        The component design emphasizes
and advisory component are found not               stakeholder participation in priority
to be relevant, timely or in demand                setting, and decision making both
through the advisory boards for the
proposed RACs and through
participation in the competitive grant
scheme.
-33-



From Components to Outputs
Suitably experienced institutions may      H         Prior to negotiations nine leading
not respond to requests for proposals to             international cooperative banking
serve as implementing agency for the                 institutions were sent briefing material
component or if selected may not agree               on the component and the proposed
to the terms and conditions of the                   implementation arrangements.
assignment.                                          Follow-up meetings were held with
seven institutions to discuss the
component further and to assess their
willingness and capacity to participate.
Based on this briefing three preliminary
expression's of interest were received
from qualified institutions.
The rural finance component may be         H         1. The selected implementing agency's
poorly implemented by the selected                   agreement with the Government
implementing agency who may be too                   commits it to hire personnel with
eager to lend unwisely to LFIs it has                qualifications and experience
just created.                                        satisfactory to the Government and
IDA.
2. The implementing agency will have a
strong pecuniary incentive for careful
screening of LFIs and aggressive
collection of loans.
The credit line may be too large and,     H          Special care has been taken in
therefore, may not disburse as                       determining the proposed size of the
anticipated because (i) it will take time            credit line. The build-up in numbers of
to establish viable LFIs and to achieve              LFIs and their loan portfolio's is
the level of lending that is projected and           consistent with the heavy emphasis on
(ii) an effective demand for subloans                institution building for Credit
will not materialize as projected given              Cooperatives. Also the following points
the level of interest rates and terms of             were considered in determining the
lending that are required to assure                  proposed credit amount: (i) lack of
sustainable LFIs                                     other sources of credit; (ii) high
marginal returns to a large number of
rural activities; (iii) the large pool of
potential borrowers, and, (iv) and
evidence from existing micro-finance
programs that borrowing is indeed
taking place at even higher interest rates
The numbers of specialists is              H         The high levels of literacy and technical
insufficient in rural areas who can be               skills combined with high levels of
trained and want to earn a living by                 underemployment in rural areas
providing private consultant services to             strongly suggest that there are ample
rural enterprises.                                   candidates willing to try private
consultancy.
-34-



RACs have no incentives to identify and  M         The main function of the RACs will be
train private consultants who could then           to manage the contracts of private
compete with the RACs in providing                 consultants. The RACs will not deliver
information or advisory services.                  services directly.
Overall Risk Rating                      H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Appointment of auditors satisfactory to IDA;
*   Opening of project account and the deposit of $50,000 equivalent in counterpart funds.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Disbursement for the Credit Line
e   Adoption of Prudential Guidelines and a Supervision System for Credit Cooperatives satisfactory
to IDA
e   Agency and cofinancing agreement signed with an implementing agency for the credit component
satisfactory to IDA.
Dated Covenant
*   Agency and cofinancing agreement signed with an implementing agency for the credit component
satisfactory to IDA by March 31, 2000.
* Adoption of a fee structure for land registration satisfactory to IDA by January 31, 2000;
_  Establishment of a Rural Policy Unit by January 31, 2000.
=   Submission to IDA of an Annual Work Program and Budget satisfactory to IDA by January 31,
2000 for the Government's FY2000 and by November 30 for subsequent years.
Audits and Accounts:
*   Standard auditing covenants will apply; and
*   The Borrower will open and properly maintain a Special Account.
Management:
*   The PMU will be maintained and adequately staffed.
Monitoring, review and reporting:
*   Standard reporting covenants will apply.
*   An in-depth mid-term review will be undertaken no later than March 31, 2002 as part of the
preparation for the second phase of the program.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
-35-



1. b) Not applicable.
Di 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
N 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LO 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Van Roy South orth                Kev  M. Cleaver                   Ishrat  Husain
Team LeadeP                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
-36-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhancement of economic    Rural incomes and wage      National Statistics Of fice data Continued support and
efficiency and             levels relative to                                      commitment at the central and
competitiveness, particularly  economy-wide average    ESW data                   rayon levels for agriculture as
in the non-oil tradable sectors                                                   key sector, especially in
of the economy, with special  Rural poor as a fraction of all                      context of "Dutch Disease"
emphasis on agriculture,   poor
which offers many
opportunities for expanding
output and incomes of
Azerbaijan's poor
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:            (from Purpose to Goal)
To return Azerbaijan's     For those remaining in the    1. Project baseline survey  General macro-economic
farming areas to former levels sector, farming has become   of private farms       stability in the country and
of productivity under a new    viable and productivity of  2. Follow-up progress   political stability and security
system characterized by family private farm sector increased  reports by the PMU   in the country and the region
and group farms operating in  to 1991 levels partly as a  3. Periodic Social Impact
private markets.           result of project initiatives    Monitoring activities    Government maintains its
4. Supervision mission and reform agenda and the
Phase 1. 10 centers        Primary producers of crop and    evaluation (mid-term    promotion of the private rural
established for registration of livestock products are      and fmal) reports     sector
farm land transactions, pilot  diversifying their range and
unified real estate registration improving the quality of their
system implemented; IAS    products to use marketing
provided in five regional  opportunities by the end of the
centers; system of LFIs (80    Program
credit cooperatives, and 200
borrowers groups) established
Phase 2. Unified Real Estate  Viable and effective
registration System rolled out institutions in place providing
in five regional centers; IAS   key services to underpin
expanded to five additional   sustained agricultural
centers; Numbers of LFIs   development
expanded; CBs establish rural
branches.
Phase 3. Unified Real Estate
System expanded nationwide;
further expansion of LFIs, and
CB branches
-37-



rehy    _bKy P*i*ce
Hierarchy of    abflvee            i                   __             __s                  __f_-,_
Project Development        Outcome I Impact             Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Family and group farms and   All backlog in registration of   1. PMU progress reports   General macro-economic
other rural entrepreneurs  the land privatization titles     and audits             stability in the country and
begin to record land        cleared, and all demand for  2. State Land Committee   political stability and security
transactions in large numbers, agricultural land transactions  reports             in the country and the region
use advisory and information  are completed in a transparent  3. Periodic M&E activities
services, and expand        and timely manner in all rural   as compared to baseline Sustained political and
investment in their operations. regions                  4. Supervision mission and budgetary commitment to
evaluation (mid-term    expedite rural reform agenda
and final) reports    and the promotion of the
private rural sector
All agricultural land
transactions, mortgages and                             Sufficient economic
liens on land are recorded on a                         opportunities for the creation
timely basis and easily                                 of small enterprises and
accessible by the public in                            farming units
regional centers
Follow-up phases of the
program are prepared and
implemented with success
Government maintains good
Rural land is widely accepted                           policies in the sector,
as collateral by lenders                                including absence of directed
subsidized credit
Farmers benefiting from
advisory activities demonstrate
behavioral changes, improved
farm management and
diversified activities over the
duration of Phase I
Farmers with access to private
veterinary services sponsored
by the project use them and
have high satisfaction levels
Allowing farming households
and other rural entrepreneurs
to gather investment capital,
to adopt new technologies,
change their input/output
combinations, and increase
their scale of operations which
would allow them higher
levels of productivity and
incomes
-38-



Limited subsidy dependence of
CCs ensured as indicated by
Subsidy Dependence Index,
expected to be less than 35%
after 2 years of operation.
Project is implemented
smoothly through the PMU
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1a. System in place to register   1. All (790,000) land titles   1. PMU progress reports   Government commitment to
agricultural land titles and    issued and stored in     2. State Land Committee   decentralization of registration
land transactions in 10          designated registry with   3. Supervision mission and services continues
regional centers.                open public access          evaluation (mid-term
lb. Pilot completed for unified  2. Pilot project and plan   and final) reports
real estate registration system.  for unification of     4. Periodic M&E activities
registration system for     as compared to baseline
all land and real estate
categories implemented
3. 10 regional land
registration offices
created, cadastral
systems in place,
procedures for updating
the system established
and the technology is
put in place
4. Registered land
transactions and
inquiries reach 10,000
per year
-39-



2. Farmers and other rural   1. 10,000 - 15,000 farmers  1. Periodic M&E activities Markets for inputs and
entrepreneurs in the areas       annually receive useful     as compared to baseline produce develop
served by the project have       group training in       2. PMU progress reports
access to information, advice,   domains of their choice   3. Monitoring of contracts  Services provided by the
and veterinary services.         and satisfied with the                             component is relevant and
quality and availability                          changes by demand and time
of the services
2. 200 to 300 demos and                               Irrigation infrastructure is
field tests undertaken                            rehabilitated
annually, benefiting
3,000 farmers                                     RACs have incentives to
3. Awareness raised among                             create private advisory
100,000 farming                                   capacity
households via TV
programs and 10,000
households receive
leaflets and other
printed material
4. Mass media campaigns
reach 70% of the rural
population for subjects
of broad interest
and high priority such as
adequate information on
land rights and
responsibilities
5. Private veterinary
services encompass 5
regions (25 raions),
providing veterinary
access to 16-20,000
farmer households
6. Demonstrable,
documented success
stories on group
activities are
disseminated to farmers
-40-



3. Access by farmers and other  1. Approximately 80 credit  I. PMU progress reports   Social capital in rural areas is
rural entrepreneurs to rural     cooperatives established    and audits             strong enough to support
finance from local financial     in accordance with      2. Credit cooperative     foundation and functioning of
intermediaries increased.        prudential regulations      reports and reports from  credit cooperatives and
and legal framework        the selected           borrowers' groups
2. Approximately 200           implementing agency
borrowers' groups       3. Periodic M&E activities CCs do not become borrower
(village banks)             as co-.,pared to baseline dominated and hence,
established, with an                              financially unviable due to the
emphasis on rural poor                            traditional cooperative
3. 12,000 individuals with                            governance structure
outstanding loans at the
end of Phase I                                    Borrowers' group members do
not choose to strategically
and collectively default on
their project financed loans
rendering, thereby, their joint
liability worthless
ANB does an adequate job of
supervision
4. Capacity of Government    I. Strategy is developed,    I. PMU progress reports   The strategy advice prepared
increased to formulate           discussed within        2. Supervision mission and by the unit is accepted by
strategies for agricultural      government and with         evaluation (mid-term    government at a political
sector                           other stakeholders          and final) reports    level, in spite of competing
2. Strategies and action                              demands for access to oil
plans for key subsectors                          revenues, and is implemented
have been prepared
5. Capacity of the PMU       I. Staff hired and
increased for project            equipment procured
implementation
-41-



V..          b'IaosMonitoring & Evaluation    C,itlcal AsatuMptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Real Estate Registration    US$ 5.44 million      PMU Progress Reports       Procurement of computers and
Services                                                                        equipment is timely
*  Implementation of 10
regional Cadastre and
Land Registration
Systems, linked to the
Central Land
Registration System of
the State Land
Committee (SLC)
*  Implementation of a
pilot unified Cadastre
and Registration System
for land and buildings in
Nakhchivan AR
2. Information and Advisory  US$ 10.00 million       PMU Progress Reports       Government remains
Services                                                                        commnitted to promotion of
private sector solutions to
*  Strengthening existing                                                     supply of farmer advise
Extension Support
Center (ESC) in the                                                         There are sufficient numbers
Ministry of Agriculture                                                     of specialists available who
*  Testing mechanisms for                                                      can be trained adequately
contract extension and
training services
*  Supporting agricultural
research
* Assisting development
of private veterinary
services
-42-



3. Rural Finance          US$ 15.29 million            1. PMU Progress Reports  There are available resources
2. Disbursement reports  in rural areas
* Establishment of a Rural
Credit Facility (RCF)                                                      The LFIs can build up their
within the MOF                                                             capital base fast enough to
*  Support for creation of                                                    absorb the resources offered
Local Financial
Intermediaries (LFIs),                                                     Agreement can be reached
including credit                                                           with an experienced
cooperatives and jointly                                                   institution with the financial
liable borrowers' groups                                                   means and the willingness to
accept risk for at least 20
percent of the loans to LFIs to
act as implementing agency
for the component.
The component is successfully
implemented by the selected
implementing agency.
4. Rural Policy Unit      US$ 0.78 million           PMU Progress reports       The Strategy Unit is able to
produce adequately rigorous
analyses and
recommendations, which are
accepted by the Government
5. Project Management Unit  US$2.14 million          PMU Progress reports       Ability of PMU to recruit and
retain high caliber staff, who
could monitor project
implementation and work with
various agencies to resolve
bottlenecks.
-43-



Annex 2: Project Description
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
By Component:
Project Component i - US$5.4 million
Real Estate Registration Component
The Government's focus to date has been on privatizing the farms, the land allocation process, and
the issuance of land titles. Little has been done to establish and maintain a registry of these titles that is
secure, up-to-date, and capable of recording rights to land and land transactions (mortgages, liens, leases,
sales, inheritance, gifts, etc.). Without immediate action to develop a simple registry system, transactions
in land may not be uniformly recorded and the titles that have been issued may become obsolete. The
Government is committed to decentralizing the registration to regional offices. Once the process of land
allocation is completed, the ongoing process of registering land transactions can be conducted in a
convenient and easily accessible location for users. Presently the land titling process has focused only on
the land allocated to individuals as part of the agricultural land privatization program. Municipal and state
lands are not presently being registered and they will need to be incorporated into the land registration
system.
Currently the system for registering real estate rights is spread between different agencies. For
example, rural land is registered at the SLC, urban land is registered at the municipalities and urban
buildings are registered at the Bureau of Technical Inventory. Maintaining this disjointed approach leads
to waste of human, financial and technical resources and increases the cost and time of market transactions
in land and buildings. The lack of information in one place also impedes smooth and uniform
administration of all real estate. The Government accepts the principle of moving towards a consolidated
registry system. However, the process involves complex and difficult institutional and legal issues. To
resolve these issues it is necessary to have cooperation among the various agencies that are presently
administering the existing registry and cadastral data.
The main objectives of the Real Estate Registration Component are: (a) to support the
Government's national program for privatizing and titling state and collective farm land; and (b) to develop
and implement the organizational and legal framework for a unified real estate cadastre system. These
objectives will be achieved through two sub-components: (i) support to SLC's central office for issuance of
the remaining land titles and to its 10 regional offices for the implementation of a decentralized land
registration system; and (ii) a pilot Unified Real Estate Registration and Cadastre System in Nakhchivan
Autonomous Republic. The model developed in Nakhchivan will later serve as a basis for wider
geographical replication in whole of Azerbaijan.
Decentralized Land Registration Services This sub-component will decentralize the land
registry to ten (10) regional centers each covering five to six raions. The system will be based on parcels of
land that have been allocated in accordance with the land privatization law. It will operate on simple
personal computers and have the hardware and software security to provide accurate and secure land
ownership information. The registration system design will allow for future expansion to record all interests
associated with each parcel of land such as mortgages, leases, liens, wills, rights of access and servitudes.
The central office of SLC and the Regional Land Registration Offices (RLRO's) in the 10 regions
will be strengthened through training, reorganization, and better technical capabilities. Training will be
-44-



provided to staff so that they can operate and maintain land registration services. The training will include
both on-the-job training and short-term courses. The technical training such as that required to operate
new surveying equipment, computer systems (hardware and software) and database management systems
will be on-the-job training. The short courses for non-technical training will take place such areas as
work-flow processes, general management, system management, cadastral systems and land information
management. Based on the training, more efficient workflow processes will be introduced. The files used
to create the land certificates ("State Land Akts") issued by the SLC at the central office will be transferred
to computers at the regional centers. These electronic files will constitute the real property titles. The legal
documents registered at the RLRO will be proof of ownership that will provide the certainty for the
purchase and sale, inheritance, gift, mortgaging, leasing, subdivision and consolidation of land. The
technical staff of the RLRO will also assist in mapping and delineating municipal and government land.
The RLROs will become self-financing over time through the gradual introduction of fees for
registration services and for access to their records and information. Under the project the RLRO's will
establish an appropriate fee schedule that will lead to a gradual increase in cost recovery for registry
services provided by the RLRO's. The Government intends to develop a fee structure that balances the
objective of cost recovery with the need to assure that the fees do not serve as a deterrent to registration of
land transactions. A fee structure, satisfactory to IDA, will be adopted by January 31, 2000. The objective
will be to cover at least 50 percent of the operating costs at the end of the project period. The project will
finance vehicles, office equipment and rehabilitation, incremental operating costs, technical assistance and
training. Training will be in the form of on-the-job training and formal short courses.
Land Surveying and Mapping. No new mapping will be done for this sub-component. The
1:10000 scale maps produced for the state and collective farms are adequate to determine the agricultural
land shares and to delineate them on property maps. Also, existing maps at 1:2000 and 1:5000 scales are
sufficient to prepare privatization plans and certificates for residential areas. There will be a need to
supplement the existing maps using conventional field surveying methods using the new GPS and total
station equipment provided under the project. The survey staff at the regional centers will do all of the field
survey work. The survey staff at the regional office will also conduct all surveying activities related to
subdivision of land parcels, defining municipal land boundaries, settlement of boundary disputes, defining
village house plot limits, providing technical details in support of privatization of all state and municipal
lands, and any other surveying activities associated with land in the respective region. During project
implementation options will be examined for transferring field surveying activity of the SLC to a private
surveying sector once a market for surveying activities develops. The project will assist in the development
of surveying capacity in the private sector and will provide training in technical and contracting procedures
for private surveyors. The project will develop a plan for a transition of surveying and mapping
responsibilities from the public to the private sector to ensure that it will function on a sustainable basis.
Unified Real Estate Registration System in Nakhchivan Autonomous Region
The project will support the development and implementation of a unified Cadastre and Real Estate
Registration System for all land and buildings in the Nakhchivan AR. The results of the implementation
process will be evaluated prior to the end of the project and proposals will be developed for a national
policy and implementation program for the entire Republic of Azerbaijan. The roll-out of the model in the
whole of the Republic will be supported in subsequent phases of the APL. Nakhchivan was chosen
because it has its own parliament and the Government is progressive, responsive and expressed an interest
in implementing a unified land cadastre system. Implementation of the system will be less cumbersome in
Nakhchivan as the small cohesive parliament will readily adopt the necessary legislation and regulations.
The Government can assure that the necessary policies and integration of agencies essential for the system
-45-



implementation are in place.
New aerial photography will be undertaken for the Nakhchivan Pilot Project area. The new
photography will be used to produce digital mapping at the scales required to delineate the individual land
parcels and other real property units. Mapping is required at scales of 1:2000 in urban, pre-urban and
rural settlement areas and at 1:5000 to 1:10,000 for rural lands outside the village residential areas. Some
densely developed areas of the city may require 1:1000 scale maps to identify the individual land parcels.
The existing 1:10,000 land cadastre maps produced by the Land Institute will be used whenever possible.
It will not be possible photograph the whole territory of Nakhchivan because of international boundary
agreements with neighboring countries. There is a no fly zone five kilometers wide extending into
Nakhchivan from Armenia, Turkey and Iran which can not be photographed from the air. However, there
will be adequate photography from the remainder of the territory to provide new mapping to fulfill the
objectives of developing and implementing a unified cadastre system.
Global design of the system. The principles to be used in the design of the unified cadastre require
that: (i) it will be a legal cadastre with a land use component; (ii) it will be maintained and operated by one
institution; (iii) it will be maintained with up-to-date information and will be accessible to any legal or
physical person; (iv) the necessary legal framework will be developed as part of the implementation of the
pilot; (v) the registration component will be based on land title principles; and (vi) it will allow for the
maintenance of the legal principal of separate ownership of the land and the buildings erected on the land.
The project will provide equipment, technical assistance, and training to support the
implementation of the project. Specific activities to be supported include the: (i) preparation of topographic
base maps; (ii) review of Nakhchivan existing legislation on cadastre and registration and prepararation of
draft legislation for unified cadastre system; (iii) design of the database, complete with the data model and
data structures for input and output; (iv) review and development of improvements as necessary in the
unique numbering system; (v) design of storage systems for original source documents.
Project Component 2 - US$15.3 million
Rural Finance Component
The objective of this component is to pilot a mechanism to increase the availability in rural areas of
market based credit and deposit services for rural households, enterprises, and farms. In particular, the
component will support the establishment two types of LFIs, namely credit cooperatives and groups of
jointly liable borrowers. The project will also establish a credit line to be allocated through the LFIs to
finance eligible sub-projects.
An institution with international experience in credit cooperative development and micro-finance
programs, sufficient financial means, and the willingness to accept the risk for at least 20 percent of loans
to LFIs will be selected on a competitive basis to implement this component. The implementing institution
will be responsible for: (i) providing technical assistance and training to the LFIs to be established under
the project; (ii) managing the credit line on behalf of the Government of Azerbaijan; and (iii) cofinancing at
least 20 percent of each loan made to participating LFIs. The selected implementing agency will enter into
an agency and co-financing agreement with the Government that will cover the terms and conditions for the
technical assistance and the arrangements for operation of the credit line, including the provisions for risk
sharing.
Local Financial Intermediaries
-46-



The project will finance the technical assistance required to create and consolidate a distribution
network for rural financial services made of approximately 80 CCs and 200 groups of jointly liable
borrowers. Two types of LFI's will be supported by the component to allow local conimunities to choose
the best type of structure for their own needs in face of the diversity in the demand of financial services in
rural Azerbaijan.
Credit Cooperatives are expected to be formal, sound, and competitive financial insti.utions with
a wide ownership and clientele base. They will provide simple savings and credit services to their
owner-clients. Their credit services will be financed with: (i) equity contributions and deposits from their
members and (ii) funds from IDA and from the selected implementing agency.
Azerbaijan already has an appropriate legal framework for CCs. They can be incorporated under
the "Law on Enterprises" as Limited Liability Enterprises and can be licensed under the Azerbaijan
National Bank decree "Rules of Licensing and Regulating the Banking Activities of Credit Cooperatives" of
November, 1998. This legal framework combined with appropriate prudential norms and effective
supervision (see below and Annex 11) provides for an adequate environment for the development of a safe
and sound system of CCs. As a matter of fact, a number of CCs have been established on a pilot basis
under the new regulations. Initial indications are that these CCs have the ability to raise local funds as
equity or savings.
In implementing the component, the selected implementing agency will provide CCs with assistance
to become incorporated and licensed as well as with adequate accounting procedures, management
information systems, portfolio monitoring instruments, internal control procedures, operational manuals,
training packages, and the design of financial products to be offered to members. The project will also
finance an initial start-up package of office equipment, a safe, and furniture so that each CC has a proper
and secure place to do business.
CCs created and licensed under the component will be regulated financial intermediaries under the
authority of the ANB which has agreed to facilitate their licensing. The ANB will also supervise CC
compliance with all relevant prudential norms and legal requirements. Although the selected implementing
agency will offer assistance to CCs to comply with these requirements, the CCs will be responsible for
complying with all requirements imposed by ANB. The Japanese Grant for the preparation of this project
is financing the preparation of a detailed plan for the regulation and supervision of credit cooperatives,
including: (i) prudential norms and regulations; (ii) reporting requirements; (iii) systems of routine
off-site/on-site monitoring; and (iv) triggers that will make ANB monitor more closely some selected credit
cooperatives (e.g., volume of assets). Annex 11 presents the main prudential norms and licensing
requirements that will be used regulate the operation of CCs.
Groups of Jointly Liable Borrowers will be used as transitional channels for the credit facility
during the implementation of the component. It is expected that the component will assist in the creation
and will finance about 200 of these groups. This modality of LFIs will be groups of borrowers with 10 to
20 individual farmers and rural micro-entrepreneurs. These groups, generically known in the micro-finance
literature as "village banks," will be used as additional channels for component funds in order to
accommodate the great diversity in credit demand in the country's rural areas. These groups will be
particularly important for non-farm micro-entrepreneurs in the smallest rural localities, where there may
not be enough population to support the fixed-cost structure required for the proper functioning of CCs.
The project will provide technical assistance and training to assist individual rural entrepreneurs to
-47-



act collectively within this groups to obtain credit from the project on the basis of their joint liability.
Social capital in the form of existing character information, peer monitoring, and local enforcement will be
the main instrument to guarantee the group's repayment. These groups of borrowers will not need to be
legally incorporated nor will they need an ANB license as their members will basically borrow from project
funds as physical persons and will not be allowed to collect deposits from the public. The selected
implementing agency will assist these groups in accessing the component's credit facility and will explain
the legal obligations and liabilities to individual members implied by joint liability. The implementing
agency will perform the role of facilitator during the initial meetings of the groups and will assist the group
in monitoring individual member compliance with sub-loan obligations. To this end, the groups will be
provided with a very simple portfolio monitoring instrument and, from time to time and if necessary, with
legal counsel.
All members of a group will be jointly and individually liable for the amount borrowed collectively.
This means that personal assets belonging to an individual member might be repossessed to cancel partially
or totally the outstanding balance of the total debt incurred collectively. The exception, of course, will be
given by those personal assets upon which a secured interest had been granted to another creditor prior to
these legal procedures.
These groups of borrowers are not expected to be permanent organizations and their access to the
project's credit facility will be limited to the period of implementation of the component. While these
groups are not expected to exist in the future, they will likely continue to gain access to formal financing
through one of the following mechanisms: (i) joining the CCs created under the project; (ii) forming their
own cooperatives; or (iii) borrowing as a group from banks. The option of joining a CC will also be
available to individual members whose credit needs grow beyond the maximum amount of sub-loans for
individual members of the groups (expected to be US $900). The real value of the financing provided to the
groups will be protected through charging market rates and aggressive loan recovery efforts.
Rural Credit Line
The Rural Finance component will provide a US $11.5 million line of credit to participating LFIs
(PFLIs) for the allocation of sub-loans to finance eligible sub-projects. The following are the main
elements and conditions governing the allocation and recovery of the component's credit line.
Rural Credit Facility
The Governement has agreed to cause the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to establish a Rural Credit
Facility (RCF) to enter into credit contracts with, disburse loans to, and collect repayments of interests and
principal due from PLFIs. The RCF will not be a legal entity nor an administrative structure in its own.
Instead, it will comprise: (i) an Agency and Cofinancing Agreement between MOF and selected
implementing agency; and (ii) two accounts (the RCF bank accounts) established by the MOF in either
ANB or a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA (a Treasury Bank) to implement the component's credit
line. The Agency and Cofinancing Agreement will provide the implementing agency with (i) the authority
to: (a) negotiate and sign credit contracts with PLFIs on behalf of the MOF, (b) enforce, legally if
necessary, credit contracts with PLFIs or their members on behalf of the MOF; (c) issue disbursement
orders to the Treasury Bank in favor of eligible CCs or to obtain cash advances to disburse credit in cash to
the individual members of eligible borrower groups, (d) collect interest and principal payments from PLFIs;
and (ii) the responsibility for (a) determining eligibility of PLFIs and monitoring their continued eligibility
to intermediate component funds, (b) maintaining adequate documentation supporting every stage of the
credit line operation, and (c) immediately depositing any collected interest and principal payments from
-48-



PLFIs into the RCF bank accounts.
The RCF accounts to be established in the Treasury Bank will be used to process all the
disbursements and receipts of interest and principal payments from PLFIs. The Treasury Bank will carry
out withdrawals from the RCF accounts either directly to CCs or in cash to the selected implementing
agency for further disbursement to the members of groups of borrowers in accordance with procedures to
be determined by the MOF.
Eligible Participating LFIs
The CCs created under the project will be eligible to intermediate component funds only if they
agree to an institutional development plan including a set of time-bound monitorable performance
indicators. The implementing agency will provide technical assistance and training in the elaboration of
these plans. The eligibility criteria and monitorable indicators in these plans will include (i) minimum paid
in capital of US$ 5,000 equivalent as required by ANB regulations, (ii) minimum levels of loan collections
of 85 percent of amounts due; (iii) limited dependence on subsidies as indicated by Subsidy Dependence
Index of less than 35 percent at the end of the second year of operation and declining through time; (iv)
compliance with all relevant prudential norms and regulations; and (v) appropriate administrative structure
and business procedures. Annex 11 presents detailed eligibility criteria for CCs under the component.
These criteria and the relevant monitoring indicators have been determined on the basis of the pro-forma
feasibility study of CCs in Azerbaijan summarized in Annex 5. The study strongly suggests that these
eligibility criteria are attainable and reasonable. The groups of borrowers created under the component will
be eligible for the first round of lending. To remain eligible for ensuing borrowing rounds, groups must
have no payments of principal or interests due from members or to the component's RCF.
Eligible Borrowers and Subprojects
Borrowers eligible to obtain subloans from PLFIs with project funds will comply with all of the
following conditions: (i) they will be small and micro rural entrepreneurs (e.g., small scale farmers, cottage
industry producers, agro-processors, artisans, service providers, and small traders and merchants) with at
least one year of experience, (b) they will be residents of the localities where the PFLIs will be established,
and (c) they will be individuals (physical persons) -- although their enterprises may be incorporated as
legal entities.
Only short and medium-term investments to expand existing rural enterprises will be eligible to be
financed with project funds. Short and medium-term investments are those whose cash flows will allow
repayment of subloans within 24 months. Land, existing buildings and other assets previously used in the
rural sector (except breeding livestock) will be ineligible as well as investments in tobacco production and
processing. The CCs will be responsible for: (i) evaluating loan applications from their members: and (ii)
verifying that borrowers and subprojects are eligible. The selected implementing agency's loan assessment
will be basically to review CCs financial soundness. In the case of borrower groups, the selected
implementing agency will verify borrower and subproject eligibility.
Subloans
The maximum outstanding amount of all the subloans granted to a single borrower will be US$
5,000 equivalent, in the case of CCs and US $900 equivalent in the case groups of borrowers. The
maximum repayment term for subloans will be 24 months in the case of CCs and nine months in the case of
groups of borrowers. CCs will negotiate all other subloan conditions (e.g., interest rate, collateral) on the
-49-



basis of prevailing local market conditions with their borrowers.
The credit line will be in Manat with the Governement bearing the foreign exchange risk. The
interest rate to PLFIs will be determined semi-annually. CCs will borrow at the six month auction rate of
ANB (at 14 percent in February 1999). Borrower groups will borrow from the credit facility at a rate not
below the ANB six month auction rate plus 15 percent. The exchange risk to the Governement will be
compensated by the interest rate differential between IDA's standard rate and the rates paid on project
funds by PLFIs. This differential is considered appropriate because exchange rate risk is low as the
country enjoys exchange rate stability, intemational capital mobility, and practically no inflation. CCs will
repay the loans to the RCF in quarterly installments over 36 months, including a grace period on principal
of 12 months. Groups of borrowers will repay the RCF on back-to-back conditions with respect to the
repayment schedules of their individual members.
Project Component 3 - US$ 10.0 million
Information and Advisory Services Component
Institution Development. The project will strengthen the Extension Support Center (ESC) in
the Ministry of Agriculture through additional staff, equipment, training and TA. The ESC will be
responsible for the establishment of regional advisory services in five regions including Nakhchivan, Ganja,
Massaly, Sheki and Belikan. In the first two years of the project, two different approaches will be tested.
In Nakhchivan, a Regional Advisory Center (RAC) will be established to oversee the extension and training
activities of private advisors who will be recruited, trained, and contracted under the supervision of the
RAC. The RACs will have a small core of permanent staff responsible for identifying farmer needs and
organizing the work of private individual advisors. In Ganja, the entire responsibility for advisory services
will be contracted out to a private company which will be responsible for providing agreed upon services to
farmers in the region. At the mid-term review, the two approaches will be reviewed and a decision taken on
which to use in the other three regions to be covered in the first phase project. A National Advisory council
and regional advisory councils in each region will be established to guide the development of research and
extension services and ensure that beneficiaries can influence policies and programs.
Information Services will consist of:
* Information Campaigns. The project will finance multimedia information campaigns in areas
where information is needed for farmers and rural populations in general to: (i) understand their
rights and duties, and thus protect their interest (equity) or take advantage of new legislation or
services (e.g. land privatization, taxes); and (ii) protect public health and/or the environment
through better information, e.g. on IPM and pesticide handling and utilization. The project will also
finance targeted campaigns to reach geographical regions or a well-defined audience (e.g. milk
producers) when mass media communication is more cost-effective than direct extension to
increase farmer productivity and incomes;
*   Publications. The project will expand the capacity of the ESC to promote the development and
dissemination of technical, legal, market, and management information through printed
publications and/or radio/TV broadcasting, building on the successful work of the Farm
Privatization Project; and
*   Price Information System. Starting in one of the selected regions, the project will pilot the
development of a price information system. Data already collected by such institutions as the
agro-economic institute of MOA will be made available on a regular basis through radio and other
-50-



media, and its use by farmers and other entrepreneurs will be monitored.
Extension Services by Private Providers
The project will provide extension services to farmers and rural entrepreneurs through private
specialists contracted by the RACs or through a service provider which will hire its own staff. Specialists
will be initially guaranteed a certain amount of paid work, on a declining basis, as they are expected to
develop their own line of business over the years. The services provided against project funds will initially
consist essentially of farmer training, and increasingly of support to farmer groups activities, including in
particular on-farm demonstration and experimentation. It will be an important objective of the project to
encourage the formation of farmer groups sharing a common objective. Among the groups to be
encouraged will be water user associations (WUAs), with the objective to improve and maintain on-farm
irrigation networks, reduce conflicts among users and negotiate with the water authorities adequate water
delivery. This activity will build on the experience now being gained under the FPP. Other groups to be
promoted include groups of women farmers and associations of rural entrepreneurs.
Farmer Training. Short topical training courses will be provided to groups of farmers who request
it, on the basis of a needs assessment and training material prepared by the ESC. These courses will
represent initially a large part of advisors' work, declining after the first year. Some of the modules will
pursue themes already addressed by information campaigns. Other modules to be offered will include
accounting, business management, gardening, home food processing, dairy management, fruit tree pruning,
seed selection, etc. Experience in the current FPP show considerable farmer interest for such topics. The
courses will also provide opportunities for advisors to meet with prospective clients and discuss their needs.
A detailed outline of modules to be offered in year one will be developed by the ESC with the help of a
consultant recruited under the PHRD grant. The preparation of corresponding training material will be
finalized in the first months of year one, with technical assistance provided under the project.
Farm management Advice will be offered on farm management, post-harvest handling and
marketing, and preparation of business plans for commercial farms and rural enterprises. This advice will
be paid initially by project funds whenever groups are involved. Beneficiaries will be encouraged to set up
simple accounting systems, and to compare the results of different management decisions. Such group work
is expected to lead to requests for specific advice to individual farms, which will be directly contracted
between the advisor and his client.
Technical advice and technology demonstration will be offered to groups of farmers sharing a
common concern or interest, on the basis of an agreed program. Depending on the technology, this will
consist of on-farm demonstrations and trials to test and compare different varieties or techniques, as well as
of teaching of practical skills. Advisors will be specially trained on plant protection and Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) principles and techniques, particularly for cotton, fruits and vegetables. The Farmer
Field School approach will be tested, following training abroad of a technician.
Private Veterinary Services
The project will provide finance for the establishment of private veterinary services in the form of
Veterinary Field Units (VFUs) which will initially be offered as contracts to private veterinarians. The
veterinary services to be financed will cover two areas.  The first area will include treatment of sick
animals and routine prophylactic vaccinations plus related advice on animal care and improvement of
animal productivity (nutrition, hygiene, mineral and vitamin supplements, etc.). Vaccinations will be
initially for diseases such as distemper and feline enteritis and Clostridial diseases for which there will be
-51-



full cost recovery. Vaccinations for those diseases that have traditionally been controlled by the state such
as Newcastle disease, sheep and goat pox and rabies will initially be subsidized. However, full cost
recovery will be achieved by the end of the project.
The second area will the utilization of the private veterinarians in national disease control programs
under contract to the State Veterinary Committee (SVC) for diseases such as brucellosis, anthrax and foot
and mouth disease. To promote the establishment of private veterinary practices, the project will also
* ssist the development of a National Veterinary Association through technical assistance and training. Part
of this assistance will be directed at developing a charter of the association which will provide for the
protection of the interests of all veterinarians. The project will also provide technical assistance and
training to assist the Government in the development of legislation that will provide for registration of
veterinarians and promote discipline within the profession, and for the registration and orderly distribution
of animal remedies to veterinarians and animal owners.
Research Support
The objective is to ensure that farmers have rapid access to domestic as well as foreign
technologies that can make them more efficient producers. For this, the project will develop the flow of
information from research to farms and from farms to research, as well as between national and foreign
research institutions. In addition, techniques that are sufficiently proven in countries with similar
agro-ecological conditions will be directly tested on farmer fields, avoiding lengthy on-station verification
programs.
On-farm experimentation. The project will finance scientists to participate in on-farm
demonstration and experimentation of new varieties, fertilizer doses/timing, weed control techniques,
seeding practices, etc. This will aim at fine-tuning recommendations to local conditions as well as
developing farmer knowledge and his capacity to take himself the right decision when circumstances (e.g.
weather, market prices) change. The RACs will hire scientists to advise farmers and private advisors on
such experiments, but final decisions will rest with farmers.
Research and extension initiatives. The project will finance adaptive research and/or extension
projects through competitive grants on themes for which existing or borrowed technologies can provide
significant productivity increases but may need adaptation as well as initial support, e.g. to introduce
suitable machinery. The choice of themes will be initially based on a simple priority setting exercise. A
priority setting group has been formed by MOA, following a national research seminar that was held in
Baku, 11-12 March 1999. The following domains have been preliminarily identified as priorities, as
reflected by their importance for rural populations, both from the point of view of farm production value
and from that of household expenditures:
*   Livestock (meat, milk and milk products) provides a major part of rural household revenues. The
main issue is related to feeding which, combined with poor health and management practices,
results in low productivity (low grade breeds is also seen as an issue; however the choice of more
suitable breeds should follow a better understanding of evolving production systems);
*   Vegetables and potatoes are an important source of food. Potato productivity could increase
considerably, notably through the use of better seed potatoes. and
*   Cereals are essential for food security in a large part of the country. The focus should be on
lowering production costs and increasing productivity. Providing access to better seeds and
-52-



familiarizing farmers with the basics of wheat production techniques are seen as essential to reduce
costs and increase productivity.
If confirmed, these priorities will provide the basis for developing a request for project
proposals.
Support to Participants. Support will be given to potential applicants as part of the grants given
to finance winning proposals. Such support will be in the form of TA, documentation, study tours and
short-term training. Assistance will also be provided to applicants for preparing quality proposals in the
form of short-term training.
Reform of the Agricultural Knowledge System. The Government is conmmitted to reforming the
research and education system. In particular, the MOA is considering to reorganize all agricultural research
institutes on a regional basis, under a national research center. Technical assisstance and training will be
given to develop a research strategy, including setting priorities, for reforming the research system to meet
the needs of the agricultural sector. Technical assistance and training will also be given to develop a
research strategy for a selected region and prepare a detailed plan for the establishment of a pilot regional
center in that region. This will open the way for possible investments in research infrastructure during the
subsequent phases of the project.
Implementation
Central Level. Overall responsibility for implementation of the Information and Advisory Services
(IAS) component will rest with the Ministry of Agriculture. The central unit established by the Farm
Privatization Project will become the Extension Support Center under the same arrangements as now
prevail. In particular, the staff will continue to be contracted by the PMU on behalf of the MOA and will
be accountable to the Minister. Only the veterinary activities will be implemented by the SVC, with the
help of the PMU. Coordination of veterinary and agricultural activities will be ensured at the regional level
by the participation of private veterinarians alongside with other private specialists in monthly extension
programming meetings. These arrangements will be reviewed in year three, in the light of decisions to be
taken then concerning the future development of Information and Advisory Services.
Role of the ESC. Under the direct authority of the Minister advised by a National Advisory
Council, the ESC will be responsible for:
*   initial set-up activities, including the recruitment and training of RAC staff, the design of
orientation training courses for local specialists and the training of their trainers, the establishment
of the RACs, and the detailed design of the contractual arrangements under which the local
specialists will operate;
* approving the work program and budget of the RACs, channeling project resources, monitoring
their utilization as well as the regularity of contract procurement by the RACs;
*   information campaigns and other activities of nation-wide scope;
*   advising the government on issues and policies relating to rural information and advisory services,
as well as on technology generation and transfer.
The ESC will be staffed with a core group of highly qualified professional specialists consisting of
-53-



a Director, a Training Manager, a Program Manager, an Information Manager, responsible for the
Information Unit, and a Finance & Administration Manager, plus limited support staff. The Information
Unit will consist of a communication specialist, information specialist, IT specialist, and support staff. The
recruitment of additional staff for the ESC will be organized by the PMU, following nation-wide
advertisement and selection procedures agreed with IDA. For initial set-up activities, the ESC will be
advised by a specialist in extension management.
Information campaigns. Information Campaigns will be organized as discrete operations to
achieve quantifiable objectives in terms of knowledge acquisition, changes in attitudes and adoption of new
practices. Campaigns are planned in a systematic way, starting with the identification of a priority concern
in agricultural modernization and a participatory survey of related farmers' knowledge and practice. The
survey results are used to formulate the objectives of the campaign and plan its content. The subsequent
steps include strategy development, audience analysis and segmentation, selection of appropriate media,
message design, development and pre-testing, and production/dissemination of communication material. A
useful framework and examples for this approach can be found in "Strategic Extension Campaign, a
participatory-oriented method of agricultural extension" FAO, 1994. Major campaigns will be entirely
contracted out, while follow-up campaigns with narrower objectives or geographical scope could be
planned and coordinated by the IU or a RAC. A communication specialist will assist in the development of
information campaigns to be carried out in year one. Subject to the results of initial surveys, these will
include land rights and land transactions; taxation; and rural finance/credit unions in the regions where
credit unions will be created in the first year of the project. The specialist will also help develop appropriate
contracting procedures, in cooperation with the PMU procurement specialist. The role of the IU will be to
identify needs areas, define programs and prepare budgets with the Head of ESC, and to prepare bidding
documents for activities to be carried out externally.
Information Unit (IU). In addition to programming and monitoring the information campaigns, the
IU will continue, as under the FPP, to develop documentation material serving the needs of local specialists
and farmers. Its role will be to identify the needs and ensure they are met; rather than to produce material
internally, most of the production will be contracted out. With the communication specialist, the IU will
also develop a communication strategy to facilitate the flow of information within the extension system as
well as with research and education institutions; to develop communication among farmers; and to
publicize project achievements in helping farmers.
RACs: Role and Status. The RACs will be legal entities, established as regional, non-profit
organizations, with a mandate to identify IAS needs in their region and address these, primarily through a
network of local specialists working under contract with the RACs or directly with their clients. The RACs
will contract and monitor local specialists. The RACs will be overseen by an Advisory Council composed
of representatives from the farming community, agro-processors, heads of agricultural departments and
veterinary services of the concerned raions; representatives from the private sector will form the majority.
The RACs will submit an annual working plan and budget to MOA, after approval by the advisory council,
and operate a fund replenished by the project upon submission of eligible expenditures. The RACs will be
equipped and provided with a small core staff of well-selected professionals, including a director and two
specialists, one responsible for contract management, the other for monitoring and evaluating the work of
private advisors as well as for assessing farmer needs. These three professionals will be assisted by 4-5
support staff.
Training of Specialists: the project will provide orientation training courses of approximately 3
weeks duration to all specialists pre-selected for participation in the project. The Orientation Training
Courses will be designed by an international consultant who will also act as resource person for the
-54-



courses. The courses will:
*   inform the participants of the conceptual, organizational and management basis of the project;
*   reorient the specialists towards the applications of their specialist skills in the context of the
predominantly family based farms;
*   provide tools for the participants to make a diagnostic of farms in a village or a small region, and
to assess their needs in terms of information, management and technical advice; and
*   provide orientation for the specialists in the management of advisory services on a private sector,
consultancy basis and provide advice on the development of advisory services as a line of business
for the specialists themselves.
Provision is made for continued training support to the specialists in the two years following the
establishment of the RAC.
Post-Training Selection of Specialists to be invited to participate in the project: the orientation
training courses will provide opportunity for assessing the suitability of the attending specialists for the
advisory services to be provided under the project. Not all participants will prove suitable or sufficiently
flexible for their new circumstances of employment. The post-training selection will be undertaken by the
RAC manager in the context of assessments provided by the Trainers.
Contracting of Specialists: Specialists selected after the initial training courses will be invited to
contract with the RAC for the provision of advisory services through the project. The contract will be
based on the following features:
*   selected specialists will be offered guaranteed employment by the project on a half time basis (10
days per month) for the first year of the project on the basis of a defined daily wage ($ 10);
*   contracted specialists will be paid monthly on the basis of the actual number of days worked for
the project; (not exceeding 25 worked days per calendar month);
*   the contract may include any of the following categories of activity (new categories may be defined
subsequently): (a) Farmer group training in accordance with the defined schedule of the RAC; (b)
Establishment of demonstration plots in collaboration with selected farmers under supervision of
the Specialist; (c) Advice to individual farmers and agri-businesses on business development and
the formulation of business plans; (d) provision of support by the specialist to formation of groups
of producers in accordance with policies to be defined by the RAC. The Specialist shall present a
monthly schedule of his/her proposed activities for the forthcoming month, and shall maintain a
daily activity register with signed confirmation by beneficiary farmers/organizations. This register
will form the basis for monthly payment of the specialist by the project;
*   the specialist will be responsible for the provision/hiring of his/her transport from homebase to
place of work. He/she shall be reimbursed on the basis of a standard mileage allowance defined by
the RAC, which distinguishes between transport on main routes (with good public transport) and
off-route locations.
Contracting Regional Advisory Services
-55-



This is an alternative to the RAC model. In this option, a private or voluntary organization will be
contracted for the totality of extension services to be provided within a region for a period of two years,
renewable. There are still very few organizations capable of providing such services, one in Baku, another
one in Ganja. A few additional groups are being trained and supported by EU TACIS (Agribusiness
Centers) and GTZ projects. Two to three such organizations will be contracted initially to carry out a study
of extension needs in the region of Ganja. Based on this study, each candidate organization will prepare a
proposal for a 2-year program of extension services, following terms of reference prepared by the ESC's
contract extension consultant. The proposals will be submitted to the Competitive Grant Scheme Board
which will select the best one. The organization selected will then be contracted by ESC for the delivery of
services in the region. The program will have a built-in monitoring system, based on verifiable indicators,
and clauses for cancellation linked with poor performance.
In the first two years of the project, this mechanism will be tested in Ganja. A review of the
experiences and the experiences with the RAC will be carried out during the mid-term review. Depending
on the outcome of the review, other contracts could be initiated in the other regions to be covered by the
project, following the same procedure, or following the regular Competitive Grant Scheme procedure,
which will allow more organizations, including research institutes, to compete for providing extension
services.
Veterinary services
Veterinary Field Units. In the regions covered by the project, veterinarians will be encouraged to
form joint practices, following initial information workshops organized by the RAC in cooperation with
local veterinary authorities. These Veterinary Field Units (VFUs), with 3-5 professionals each, will reduce
the cost for their members of setting up private practices and facilitate the management of public/project
support. An agreement will be signed between each VFU and the SVC, which will provide for training and
start-up equipment and provision of veterinary services by the VFU to owners of animals and livestock.
The VFUs will be contracted by the SVC to provide veterinary services to farmers on a program of work
agreed upon by the SVC and its regional office. These annually negotiated contracts will provide payment
only for those services for which beneficiaries are not expected to be willing/able to pay. Guidelines
regarding criteria as well as contracting and monitoring procedures will be prepared by ESC in consultation
with SVC, with technical assistance (TA) support (Veterinarian, specialist in institutions). Other services,
including drugs and vaccines for diseases not under SVC regulatory control, will be paid by beneficiaries,
and the proceeds used by VFUs to build up their capital and become self-sustaining.
Cost Recovery
The main mechanism for cost recovery will be to progressively wean advisors from regular
support, so as to encourage them to seek direct business with farmers and rural enterprises. Accordingly,
initial contracts will not guarantee full time employment. However, they will be sufficiently remunerative to
attract capable staff. The level of private activity reached by advisors will be monitored through interviews
of both advisors and farmers, as part of the M&E surveys of clients. This information will be used by
MOA to decide on the speed and modalities of disengagement. Beside their private activities, the advisors
will also be encouraged to participate in public tenders or apply for competitive grants for the provision of
public good services.
In the long run, public support will be restricted to public good type of information and advice.
During the current building phase of the services, subsidies will be modulated to satisfy three distinct
-56-



objectives: (i) to facilitate the establishment of private advisors; (ii) avoid competing with other emerging
providers; and (iii) favor activities which are more cost-effective and are in line with national development
policies (e.g. alleviating rural poverty). In the second year of the project, cost-sharing will be introduced on
an experimental basis for activities directed at individuals, and the impact on demand will be monitored.
Based on the results of these tests, extension activities will be categorized, and a schedule by MOA for the
level of subsidy attached to various types of activities. This schedule will be revised annually, based on
advice received from regional councils and the recommendation of the National Advisory Council. Clients'
contributions will be received directly by the advisors who will obtain from the RAC the net subsidy.
Competitive Grant Scheme and Knowledge System Reform
Competitive Research Grant Scheme. The establishment of a Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS)
will generally use the guidelines prepared by ECA "A Practitioner's Guide to Competitive Research Grant
Scheme for Agriculture with a Focus on Countries of Europe and Central Asia", ECA Region, WB, 1998,
and build on discussion with stakeholders during preparation as well as the results of the 11-12 March
1999 National Seminar on Agricultural Research held in Baku. An autonomous Competitive Grant
Scheme Board (CGSB) reporting to MOA will be responsible for identifying priority problem areas, for
soliciting related research and extension project proposals and for project review, approval and supervision.
The CGSB will consist of a Chairman, appointed by MOA and selected from eminent individuals outside
the public service, and about ten members selected from the stakeholders (e.g. Universities, agro-industries,
farmer organizations, seed industry, NGOs), with a majority of members selected from private sector and
NGOs. An CGSB Secretariat will be established, the head of which will also be secretary to the CGSB.
The secretariat will be comprised of a Head, an accountant, an administrative assistant and three advisers
(agriculture, livestock, socio-economics). The CGSB will approve the Secretariat annual working plan and
budget.
The secretariat will advertise the availability of research and extension grants in the media to
potential participants, including agricultural research institutions, universities, private agro-businesses,
extension organizations, NGOs working in the agricultural sector, and farmer organizations. The
secretariat will pre-screen applications and give them for review to an adviser and two experts selected
from a list prepared by the CGSB. Evaluation will be based on a set of criteria approved by the CGSB and
designed to ensure rapid benefits to the targeted beneficiaries. The criteria will also emphasize partnership
between the main implementing institution and others, including higher education, producers organizations,
etc., as well as linkages with outside support institutions. Based on the reviewers recommendations, the
CGSB will accept those applications considered most appropriate to the aims of the CGS within the limits
of the budget. For those, a contract will be signed between CGSB, the project leader and the parental
institution. The contract will stipulate monitorable milestones, cost sharing arrangements, ownership of
equipment procured, intellectual property rights, rules for reporting, monitoring and publication, a schedule
for the release of funds, and measures to be taken in case of poor performance. The costs of review and
approval procedures as well as the costs of auditing will be included as a project cost.
To facilitate an early start of the grant system as well as to initiate the development of strong
linkages with international research organizations, the CGS will initially work on the basis of priorities
identified during preparation. For each of the 2-3 first priority themes selected, a recognized international
specialist will work with the secretariat of the CGSB to outline priority projects, identify prospective
participating scientists and institutions as well as suitable international cooperating institutions, and
develop a request for the submission of application for competitive grants.
-57-



Knowledge System Reform
Concurrently, MOA will initiate a national priority setting process with all major stakeholders,
including policy makers (Ministries of Agriculture, Environment, Science & Technology, SVC), research
administrators, end-users (farmers, agro-processors, etc.), extension specialists, researchers, development
projects and NGOs. A National Priority Setting Committee will be established to oversee the process, with
commodity specific working groups. The methodology will generally follow ISNAR approach, but will be
simplified to the extent possible. MOA will hire a facilitator to help initiate and guide the process. This will
lead to the setting of national research priorities and the definition of priority research programs, as well as
to the development of a national research strategy. This process is expected to take about a year, and will
serve to define priority areas for funding under the CGS as well as for public financing of research in
general; provide a basis on which to review the adequacy of the existing research system (and more
generally the agricultural knowledge system) to address sector priorities in terms of organizational
structure, disciplines and skills, management system, and facilities.
In parallel, two to three regions will be selected in view of studying the reorganization of the
existing agricultural research system on a regional basis, as envisaged by MOA. In those regions, a similar
priority setting exercise will be carried out, as well as a review of existing research capacities. One of
these regions will be selected for piloting the development of a regional center. In this region, a research
strategy will be prepared, as well as an action plan to develop a regional research capacity to implement the
strategy. This will define in concrete terms the reorganization measures as well as the investments in human
resources and facilities needed to establish a regional center, and open the way for more significant support
to research during phase two project of the APL.
Project Component 4 - US$0.8 million
Rural Policy Unit
Objectives of the Component
The overall objective of the proposed project component is to establish a sound analytical basis for
the definition of government policy for the agricultural and the rural sector in the context of the expected
rapid increase in oil-related revenues over the period to 2010, and to define policies and interventions which
will reduce potential adverse effects of the oil boom on key agricultural industries which have long term
comparative advantage and which form the basis for rural livelihoods. A secondary objective is to
contribute to increasing the capacity within Azerbaijan both in Government and in research institutions for
sound economic policy analysis of the issues relating to the management of oil revenues.
Specific objectives of the component are:
*   to assess the ability of key agricultural sub-sectors (e.g. wheat, cotton, livestock products) to
survive in Azerbaijan under plausible assumptions concerning exchange rate adjustments and
sectoral productivity growth, in the absence of special government support programs for the sector;
*   to identify agricultural production and processing industries with a long run comparative
advantage, whose survival should be sought through special policy measures;
*   to identify specific government policies and interventions which will enhance the survival through
and beyond the oil boom period of agricultural industries with long run comparative advantage
without causing undue economic distortions, and which can ensure a sound economic basis in the
-58-



rural economy for continued viable livelihood of a substantial proportion of the national labor
force. Such policy instruments and investment mechanisms will essentially utilize oil/gas generated
revenues to enhance productivity growth in target industries and so ensure their survival during and
beyond the oil/gas boom period;
*   to define an explicit and costly program of support to the agricultural sector for the period 1999 to
2010 with an associated financing plan; and
*   to establish a capability within Government to address other issues relating to the agricultural
sector (and more generally the rural economy) as needs arise. In this regard an initial priority will
be to review policy options for accelerating the growth of agro-processing and the removal of
regulatory and other constraints to development of this key sub-sector.
Brief Design Summary
The Rural Policy Unit (RPU) will comprise a small full-time professional team of 3
locally-recruited specialists with appropriate support staff. External technical support will be provided for
initial establishment of the unit (first 6 months) and thereafter on an intermittent basis depending on
requirements. The RPU will be established within the Ministry of Agriculture and will report to the Deputy
Prime Minister for the Economy. It will be supervised by an inter-ministerial Steering Committee, to be
chaired by the DPM, which will be responsible for setting the Unit's research agenda and for reviewing the
Unit's findings and recommendations.
The staffing of the unit will cover the key skills necessary for the work of the Unit, namely a
Director with a background in Agricultural Economics, and specialists in the fields of (a) Macroeconomics
and Sectoral Policy and (b) The Economics of Irrigation. The local full time staff will be supported by
external short term experts drawn from the same basic disciplines who will bring international experience
to bear.
The main activities of the Unit will be:
*   to undertake the analytical studies and investigations as set out in the Unit's annual Work Plan;
v   to maintain a close policy dialogue with key policy-makers in Government so as to obtain
appropriate guidance at the policy and to ensure that the results of the Unit's work are well
understood and contribute directly to the formation of Government policies concerning the rural
sector;
* to commission specific research activities from appropriate Azeri research institutions or
individuals which contribute directly to the work of the Unit and which provide a mechanism for
bringing local relevant skills and capabilities to bear on Government's policy formulation in this
important area; and
*   to establish appropriate mechanisms a for the widespread discussion and debate of the economic
policy issues with which the Unit is concerned and in this way contribute to the emergence of a
wider consensus on strategies towards the rural sector.
Training: Although it is only a temporary body, the Unit will contribute to capacity-building and
training in several ways: through seminars to be organized by the Unit to familiarize policy-makers with the
-59-



economic framework for the analysis of rural sector policy options, through on the job training of long term
local staff by the external short term experts, and through the extensive involvement of local experts from
the University and technical institutes in both the commissioned research and training activities of the unit.
These latter activities will give local experts from a range of organization exposure to modern analytical
approaches to the analysis of the policy issues with which the project is concerned.
-60-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Real Estate Registration                                     1.1           3.8           4.9
Rural Information and Advisory Services                      2.6           6.5           9.1
Rural Finance                                                0.1          15.0          15.1
Rural Policy Unit                                            0.2           0.5           0.7
Project Management Unit                                      0.9           1.1           2.0
Total Baseline Cost                                          4.9          26.9          31.8
Physical Contingencies                                      0.3           0.5           0.8
Price Contingencies                                         0.3           0.7           1.0
Total Project Costs                5.5          28.1          33.6
Total Financing Required                 5.5          28.1          33.6
Goods                                                            0.0           6.5           6.5
Works                                                            0.3           0.0           0.3
Services                                                         0.0           7.6           7.6
Training                                                         0.3           2.4           2.7
Other                                                            4.9          11.6          16.5
Total Project Costs         5.5          28.1          33.6
Total Financing Required          5.5          28.1          33.6
The services category comprises of internationally recruited consultanfts services and contracts for local
specialists to carry out information and advisory services. The other category comprises of credit line,
competitive grants and incremental operating costs.
-61 -



Annex 4
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF RURAL INCOME-GENERATING
ACTIVITIES
Introduction: The economic benefits and financial viability and sustainability of the project's Rural Credit
component hinges on the ability of rural entrepreneurs to utilize funds borrowed in sufficiently profitable
investments to permit timely repayment of loans to the Credit Cooperatives (CCs) with an acceptable level
of after-interest profitability. The viability of the CCs must be based on the presence of sufficiently
profitable opportunities for entrepreneurial activities to generate the CCs income flow and the presence of
entrepreneurs able to exploit these opportunities in the local market. To assess whether this underlying
condition is met, information was assembled on the observed profitability of a wide range of types of rural
entrepreneurial activity, both agricultural and otherwise drawing on the experience accumulated by the
leading NGOs currently lending into these categories of rural business in Azerbaijan. This information was
summarized in the form of gross margin and financial rate of return calculations for representative business
types. While the need for economic analysis distinct from financial analysis depends on the existence of
significant distortions in the economy, in Azerbaijan agrarian reform is well advanced and there is little
justification for separate economic analysis since all major distortions between domestic and border prices
have been removed.
Wheat, and Cotton Production: Current crop yields are extremely low reflecting very low levels of use
of purchased inputs and yield increases of 15-200 per cent are readily achievable from a technical point of
view. Using best practices, it is possible to grow these crops profitably, including a 3 percent month flat
rate of interest over a 10 month period. The gross margins are low for wheat (29 to 31 per cent) but higher
for cotton (58 to 75 per cent), and depend on the level of cultivation practice achieved. These estimates take
into account the recent exemption by Presidential Decree of primary agricultural producers from all taxes
except land tax. Actual current returns are substantially lower than these estimates for both wheat and
cotton.
Regular and Off-season Vegetable Production - The ACDI/VOCA Experiences: Vegetable production
in both regular season and off-season is profitable for farmers and provide significant returns on investment
(ROI). Off-season production is done using greenhouses for tomatoes and eggplant and plastic for potatoes.
Greenhouse structures are viable for ten years. Plastic needs to be replaced every two years. Returns on
investment vary from 88 per cent for greenhouse production of tomatoes to 325 per cent for regular season
production of cucumbers. Total investment for 0.25 ha, an average area for vegetable production, vary
from $82 to a high of $1,019 for off-season potatoes. Profit margins vary from 41 per cent for regular
season tomatoes to 72 per cent for regular season cucumbers. In all cases, farmers are able to pay a flat
interest fee of 3 per cent and still generate significant profits.
Livestock - The Children's Aid Direct (CAD) Experience: CAD has focused on financing animal
production activities with initial loans of $300 at a 3 per cent per month flat rate. Loans average ten weeks.
Profit margins vary from 30 per cent (poultry production) to 86 per cent (goat raising and cheese
production). Goat (raising and cheese production also had the highest ROI followed by poultry production
(meat birds and layers). Actual rates of return are higher since farmers are not selling their production
animals at the end of the cycle. All activities are able to sustain above market interest rates (3 per cent
/month flat) while generating significant profits.
-62-



In the animal husbandry activities, most farmers do not purchase hay. Farmers also tend to share herding
responsibilities on a rotational basis and do not usually pay for a herder. Production of cheese butter is
generally a function of the distance of the farmer from the market place. Those farmers who are closer to
markets concentrate on milk while those who are further away produce more cheese (three month shelf life)
to reduce their weekly transportation costs.
The estimates for buffalo milk and butter production do not include the sale of small buffalo since the
reproductive cycle is much longer than for cattle. Nevertheless, buffalo milk production is more profitable
than cow's milk production because of the higher per liter price which clients are willing to pay.
Winter Wheat (current practice)     $148 per ha         31%               26%
Winter Wheat (Best practice)        $318 per ha         29%               46%
Cotton (current practice)           $118 per ha         57.8%             116%
Cotton (Improved practice)          $196 per ha         74.6%             274%
Tomato (field)                      $335 per o.25 ha    41%               101%
Tomato (Greenhouse)                 $426                49%               88%
Cucumber (field)                    $188 per 0.25 ha    72%               325%
Fodder crops
Eggplant (field)                    413                 46%               117%
Eggplant (greenhouse)               $89                 72%               217%
Potato (field)                      $599                56%               167%
Potato (off-season)                 $1019               49%               104%
Sheep raising and cheese                                69%               339%
Goat raising and cheese                                 86%               1516%
Poultry                                                 30%               701%
Milk production                                         61%               200%
Cheese production (cattle)                               52%              151%
Buffalo milk production                                 74%               204
Butter production (Buffalo)                             60%               37%
Honey production                                         77%              327%
Car repair                           1500               54%               134%
Video salon                          1800                70%               111%
Bakery                               1750               48%               94%
Carpentry                            1800                50%              104%
Notes: (1) Gross margin/Total revenue (2) Net income/Total cost
-63-



World Vision Experience: Average World Vision loans fall between micro and small enterprise loans.
World Vision's average loan size is US $650. However, they are in the process of increasing their ceiling
because their repeat clients do not have access to other sources of credit. The average loan size in the
businesses selected for analysis is US $1,000. Break down of statistics of loans for World Vision shows a
concentration on the production sector (65 per cent of the portfolio) followed by trade and services (both 13
per cent). Agriculture accounts for 9 per cent of their portfolio. Profit margins on the selected businesses
vary from 9 per cent to 96 per cent, with an average of 37 per cent. This includes flat monthly interest
rates of 3 to 4 percent. Returns on investment vary from a low of 160 per cent for leatherwork to a high of
1,428 per cent for a jam maker, with an average of 559 per cent.
The International Rescue Committee (IRC) Experience: IRC loans also span micro and small
enterprise lending. The selected loans are from IRC's small enterprise program for business start-ups for
displaced people. IRC also has a micro enterprise loan program for which no figures were available. For
the selected enterprises, start-up costs averaged US $1,686. Profit margins varied from a low of 48 per
cent (bakery) to a high of 70 per cent (video salon), with an average of 56 per cent. Rates of return varied
from 94 per cent (bakery) to a high of 134 per cent (car repair).
The experience of micro-finance institutions in Azerbaijan strongly indicates that clients in a wide variety
of productive, service, and trade businesses are able to pay above formal market interest rates of 3 to 5 per
cent per month flat interest. Entrepreneurs and producers are able to pay these interest rates while still
generating a significant profit and not destroying the productive base of their business. These rates are a
good indication of the potential for CCs and other RFIs to operate on a sustainable basis.
Conclusion on Enterprise Profitability: Micro-finance institutions currently functioning in Azerbaijan
and working primarily with displaced people have demonstrated that clients can pay above market rates of
interest and still generate profits without destroying their productive base. NGOs have demonstrated that
innovative techniques and development of new markets can open new profitable business opportunities.
This includes off-season production of vegetables, gardening, cut-flower management, and sunflower oil
processing. There is a need for RFIs that are locally based and owned and operated by members to meet
demand for credit in these markets. The rates of interest charged by the NGOs (3% to 5% per month)
reflect the general scarcity of capital in the informal economy, but are significantly lower than rates
charged by private money-lenders and are manageable for the borrowers in relation to the high profit
margins achievable on a wide range of small scale investments.
Table 4.2 Crop Profitability: Winter Wheat
-64-



Current                      "Best Practice"
Unit    Price   Quantity    Value              Price    Quantity   Value
(Manat)             Manat        $                          Manat    $
Expenses
1. Land Preparation                                      150000    38.5                          150000    38.5
Ploughing               Per Ha                          100000    25.6                          100000   25.6
Leveling                Per Ha
Disking                 Per Ha                           50000     12.8                          50000   12.8
2. Seed                  Kg            800        250    200000     51.3       1200       230   276000    70.8
3. Seeding               Per Ha      30000          1     30000      7.7                30000    30000      7.7
4. Fertilizer            Kg            500        100     50000      12.8                 600   325000   83.3
N                        Kg                         0                           580       300   174000   44.6
P                        Kg                         0                           380       200    76000    19.5
K                        Kg                         0                           250       100    25000    6.41
Organic                  MT                         0                         10000         5    50000   12.8
Complex                 Kg                         0
5. Herbicides            Kg                         0          0      0.0     12000         2    24000      6.2
6. Pesticides            Lt                         0          0      0.0     70000        2.5  175000   44.9
7. Labour Cost                                           130000    33.3                100000   230000    59.0
Irrigation              Mandays                          30000                                   30000
Harvesting              Mandays                         100000    25.6                          160000   41.0
Drying                  Mandays
Other                   Mandays                                                                  40000
8. Water                 /ha                               5000       1.3               15000    17600    4.5
Charges
9. Land tax              Iha                               12000     3.1                          12000    3.1
Total Costs (Exci VAT)                                   577000    147.9                        1239600  317.8
Revenue -                ManaVKg       500       1600    800000   205.1         500      3200  1600000  410.3
Wheat
Revenue -                ManaVKg        50        800     40000      10.3        50      3000   150000   38.5
Straw
Total revenue                                            840000                                 1750000
Loan                                           288500                                  619800
Interest Cost                                             86550                                  185940
Gross Margin             Manat                           263000    67.4                          510400   130.9
Income Tax               %,Manat                               0      0.0                             0    0.0
Gross marainltotal revenue                                31.3%                                   29.1%
Net Income (after interest)                              263000    67.4                          324460   83.2
Net Income (Without                                      349550    89.6                          510400   130.9
interest)
Retum on Investment (no                                     61%                                    41%
interest)
Retum on Investment (with                                   46%                                    26%
interest)
Note: Taxation: It is assumed that farmers are exempted from all taxes on primary production, except land tax.
Table 4.3 Crop Profitability Analysis: Cotton
-65-



Per hectare costs and revenues                ICurrent Exchange Rate:       3900
Unit           Current                      "Best Practice"
Price I Quantitv   Value                    Quantitv    Value
(Manat)       Manat       S                         Manat        $
Expenses                                                 Manat    33.3
1. Land Preparation                                        130000   33.3                         1300001     33.3
Ploughing                 Per Ha                          80000  20.5                            80000      20.5
Leveling                  Per Ha
Diskina                   Per Ha                          500W   12.8                           5000        12.8
2. Seed                    Ka             900       75     67500   17.3        900        50     45000       11.5
3. Seeding                 Per Ha                          20000   5.1                 20000      20000       5.1
4. Fertilizer              Kg             500      150      75000   19.2                 350    150000       38.5
Urea                     Kg                                                  580       150      87000      22.3
TSP                       Kg                                                 380       100      38000        9.7
DAP                       Kg                                                 250       100      25000       6.4
Organic                    Kg                                                10000         0          0       0.0
Ka  
5. Herbicides              Ka                                   0   0.0      12000         2      24000       6.2
6. Pesticides              Lt                                   0   0.0      70000       2.5    175000
7. Labour Cost             Mandays                         150000  38.5               100000     190000      48.7
Irrigation                Mandays                                                               30000
Harvesting                Mandays                                                               120000      30.8
Drying                    Mandays
Other                     Mandavs                                                               40000
8 Water charges            /Ha                               5000                      15000      17600       4.5
9. Land Tax                /Ha                              12000                                 12000       3.1
10. Transport
Total Costs                                                459500  117.8                         763600     195.8
VAT                                                             0   0.0                               0       0.0
Raw Cotton                               1200      900   1080000 276.9        1200      2500   3000000      769.2
Bv-oroducts                ManaVMT ,  5000           2      10000   2.6       5000       2.5      1 2500      3.2
Total Revenue              Manat                          1090000   279                         3012500     772.4
0/Jmonth
Gross Margin               Manat                           630500  161.7                        2248900     576.6
Gross margin/ Total                                        57.8%      0                          74.6%          0
revenue
Loan Size                                      229750                                381800
Interest Cost                   _                           96495  24.7                          160356      41.1
Net Incoe                  iManat e                        63500 161.7           224890C        576.6
Net Income after finance cost                             534005  136.9                         2088544)   535.5
Rate on investment (No interest)                            137%                                   295%
Return on investment (with interest)|    116%                                                      274%
Note: Taxation: It is assumed that farmers are exempted from all taxes on primary production, except land tax.
-66-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
FINANCIAL VIABILITY OF CREDIT COOPERATIVES
I. INTRODUCTION
The financial viability of CCs is dependent upon: (i) their ability to operate and manage their businesses on
a financially and organizationally sustainable basis given the market-related levels of interest at which they
will receive and lend-out funds; (ii) their ability to generate profits while simultaneously eliminating
dependence on subsidies; and (iii) the sustainability of the overall scheme with the Government as on-lender
of funds provided under the project.
II. PROFITABILITY OF CREDIT COOPERATIVES
Introduction: A computerized financial projection model (CFPM) was used to carry out a study on the
potential profitability of providing retail financial services to rural areas of Azerbaijan through Credit
Cooperatives (CCs). The results indicate that CCs could be profitable if the appropriate business practices
are used. This information is important because it indicates that: (i) CCs will be financially viable; and
therefore (ii) the credit risk for those organizations that will finance loans and technical assistance to CCs
(IDA and the institution implementing the Rural Credit component) is acceptable. The model generates pro
forma balance sheets, income statements, and 40 financial ratios for a given financial intermediary based
on reasonable assumptions derived from data on the macroeconomic environment, size of the financial
market in a typical locality, interest rates, financial products, loan portfolio performance, banking
regulation, initial investment and start-up costs, and operating expenses. The model produces results for
six month periods over a duration of five years. The model was designed to show the relationship between
design variables (e.g., financial products, incentive scheme, initial investments) and the profitability of rural
retail financial services, and in the case of Azerbaijan was used specifically to determine the financial
viability of a given CC.
Data sources: The principal sources of information used in estimating the assumptions and parameters for
the base scenario are: (i) Azerbaijan Rapid Rural Social Assessment, The World Bank, 1997; (ii) Draft
Agricultural Development and Credit Project Social Assessment, The World Bank, 1999; (iii) Farm
Privatization Project Social Assessment, The World Bank, 1998; (iv) Azerbaian Poverty Assessment, The
World Bank, 1995; (v) Statistical Handbook: States of the Former USSR, The World Bank, 1996; (vi)
Azerbaijan Economic Trends, Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Azerbaijan, 1998; (vii) Statistical
Yearbook of Azerbaijan, State Committee of Statistics of the Republic of Azerbaijan, 1997; and (viii)
Business plans and data collected for agricultural, livestock, and non-farm micro-enterprise activities in
rural areas of Azerbaijan.
The assumptions:
A.    Macroeconomic Parameters
Inflation. Inflation in Azerbaijan has decreased rapidly from 1,130% in 1993 to 3.7% in 1997 and is
expected to remain stable. For the purposes of this study, the rate of 3.7% is assumed for the next five
years.
-67-



GDP Growth. The 1997 Azeri real GDP growth rate was 5.8% and is expected to remain at this level.
However, to ensure that assumptions made under this study are sufficiently conservative, a rate of 3% per
year for the next five years is assumed.
Tax on Profits. The rate of tax on profits is set at 0%, since it is expected that CCs will not pay taxes on
their operational surplus.
B.    Size of the Market
Individual rural entrepreneurs (including small farmers and non-farmers), but not wage-earners, will be
eligible for services rendered by CCs.
Initial Population of the Community. Credit Cooperatives would initially provide financial services to the
residents of three or four contiguous villages with average populations of 1,000 to 4,000 each. Thus, CCs
will draw their membership from population clusters of 3,000 to 16,000 individuals (average of 9,500,
rounded to 10,000).
Rate of Growth of Population of the Community. The population growth rate of the community served
by a CC is assumed to be equal to the Azeri rural population growth rate in general. The rate of 1.27%
used in the model represents the average rural population growth rate during the years 1995-97. It is not
expected that this rate will change significantly during the next five years.
Distribution of the Population. According to the household survey conducted under the Agricultural
Development and Credit Project Social Assessment, approximately 40% of rural individuals in the
project's pilot areas are economically inactive, 38% earn income from wages, and 10% receive income
solely from pensions. Based on this data, it is estimated that approximately 12% are entrepreneurs. With
the transition to a more market-oriented economy currently taking place in Azerbaijan, entrepreneurs as a
percentage of the economically active rural population could increase. However, as a conservative measure
for the purposes of this study, it is assumed that the distribution of the population will remain constant
during the next five years.
C.    Estimation of the Demand for Deposits
For the purposes of conservative estimation, it is assumed that CCs will offer only passbook deposits.
However, the provision of additional deposit services, such as time deposits, by CCs could enable them to
operate on a more sustainable basis.
Potential Demand for Deposits. Currently, deposit services are unavailable in rural areas and thus
observed market transactions do not exist. This lack of deposit services, combined with a 1996 aggregate
formal sector savings rate of 2% of gross disposable income, suggests unmet demand for deposit services
and a potential to mobilize significant amounts of deposits by non-bank formal intermediaries. Based on
this data and reasonable assumption, it is estimated that 40% of rural entrepreneurs might demand deposit
services (i.e., that 40% of them: (i) have funds to deposit; and (ii) consider deposit accounts as a useful
means for managing the cash flows of their enterprises).
Actual Coverage of Potential Clients. Based on the potential demand for deposits, it is conservatively
estimated that deposits will initially be mobilized from 2% of the 40% of entrepreneurs who might demand
deposit services (0.8% of all entrepreneurs in the potential market as defined by the community served by a
-68-



CC). This rate of actual coverage of the entrepreneurs who might demand deposit services would increase
gradually to 20% in five years due primarily to the increased awareness of and access to deposit services
brought about by the presence of the CC in the community.
Initial Average Deposit Balance by Type of Client. In the absence of observed market transactions due
to the lack of deposit services in rural areas of Azerbaijan, and based on experience in other countries in the
region, the average initial deposit balance is estimated at US$200, representing approximately 40% of GDP
per capita.
Interest Cost of Mobilizing Deposits. The recent performance of Azeri financial markets suggests that
interest rates on deposits will remain stable, consistent with expectations of stable inflation in the next five
years. Based on an expected 3.7% inflation rate, 4% market interest rate, and 2% risk factor, the interest
rate on CC deposits is estimated at 10% per annum for the next five years.
Growth of the Average Deposit Balance. The growth rate of the average deposit balance considers: (i)
elasticity of the average deposit balance with respect to inflation and real GDP growth rates; and (ii) the
time it takes for clients to adjust their deposit balances with respect to inflation and real GDP growth rates.
While estimates for these elasticities are not available, it is reasonable to assume that within three months
of changes in inflation and real GDP growth, depositors would adjust their average deposits outstanding to
90 percent of their desired levels.
D.    Estimation of the Demand for Loans
Potential Demand for Loans. According to the household survey conducted under the Farm Privatization
Project Social Assessment, an average 83% of rural households surveyed would be willing to obtain credits
for agricultural operations. Moreover, with a population of 208,886 active rural entrepreneurs generating
$290.62 million in annual revenues, the financing of just 10% of these revenues would imply a potential
rural credit market of US$29 million. This potentially large credit market, combined with the current low
level of participation in rural financial markets (2.5% of rural households surveyed borrowed formally
during 1997) and high level of willingness on the part of rural inhabitants to obtain credits, suggests
significant umnet demand for credit. It is estimated that 65% of entrepreneurs might have an effective
demand for loans (i.e., that 65% of entrepreneurs have both the capacity and the willingness to borrow).
Actual Coverage of Potential Borrowers. In light of current low levels of participation in rural financial
markets, it is estimated that initially about 4% of the 65% of entrepreneurs who might demand credit would
actually obtain loans from CCs (2.6% of all entrepreneurs in the potential market as defined by the
community served by a CC). The rate of actual coverage of the entrepreneurs who might demand loans
would increase gradually to 40% in five years due primarily to the increased awareness of and access to
lending services brought about by the presence of the CC in the community.
It is unlikely that CCs would encounter direct competition from informal lenders since, according to the
survey, informal lending occurs primarily between friends and family members and on a very small scale
(approximately US$.50 per "loan"). Loans issued by CCs would be comparatively much larger (US$600
to US$1,000) and targeted to entrepreneurs for business purposes.
Regulation of Reserves for Loan-losses. CCs would be required to classify their loans in five risk
categories, each category corresponding to a given range of required reserves for loan-losses as a
percentage of the balance outstanding.
-69-



Accrued Interest in Arrears. The percentage of accrued interest in arrears for each risk category is
calculated as the product of the sum of the principal outstanding on loans in a given risk category and a
percentage of the outstanding loan portfolio, where the percentage used increases with the risk category.
Write-offs from the Loan Portfolio. Write-offs, estimated as a percentage of the loan portfolio, reduce
the reserve for loan-losses and the gross loan portfolio by equal amounts. Write-offs affect profits by the
difference between the amount written-off and the expense for provisions for loan-losses that had been
required before the loan was stricken from the books.
Interest Penalties for Arrears. It is assumed that CCs will increase the interest rate charged on accrued
interest in arrears by 25 percent of the original interest rate.
Accrued Interest on Reserves for Loan-losses Eventually Collected. It is assumed that 85 percent of
accrued interest is eventually collected.
Growth of Average Loan Balance Outstanding. The growth rate of the average loan balance
outstanding considers: (i) elasticity of the average loan balance outstanding with respect to inflation and
real GDP growth rates; and (ii) the time it takes for clients to adjust their loan balances with respect to
inflation and real GDP growth rates. While estimates for these elasticities are not available, it is reasonable
to assume that within three months of changes in inflation and real GDP growth, borrowers would adjust
their average loan balances outstanding to 90 percent of their desired levels.
Terms and Conditions of Loans. It is assumed that CCs will issue two types of loans: Short-term and
long-term.
Average Loan Balance and Terms to Maturity. Estimates for the average balance and terms to maturity
for loans issued by CCs are based on business plans generated from data collected for a range of
agricultural, livestock, and non-farm micro-enterprise activities in rural areas in Azerbaijan. Based on
these business plans, the average size of short- and long-term loans are estimated at US$600 and US$1,000
respectively. The average terms to maturity for short- and long-term loans are estimated at 6 and 12
months respectively.
Repayment Schedules. It is assumed that entrepreneurs will repay their loans, whether short-term or
long-term, with monthly interest payments followed by a lump-sum repayment of principal at maturity.
Interest Rates and Commissions. The interest rate on loans issued by CCs is estimated conservatively at
30% based on business plans generated from data collected for a range of agricultural, livestock, and
non-farm micro-enterprise activities in rural areas in Azerbaijan. The business plans indicate that rural
residents involved in these activities who receive loans to finance them would be able to pay the monthly
formal market interest rates of 3% to 4% (36% to 48% per annum) charged by the international NGOs
financing the activities, and still generate a significant profit without eroding the productive base of their
businesses. The estimated 30% lending rate is considered sufficient to enable CCs to operate on a
sustainable basis.
Commissions of 0.5% and 1% would be charged on short- and long-term loans respectively.
Compensating Balances. As is common practice with CCs, recipients of loans issued by the CC would be
-70-



required to deposit a percentage of the loan amount - 15% in this case - with the CC as a compensating
balance. Compensating balances would earn interest like any passbook deposit, but the deposit and
accumulated interest would be frozen until loan repayment. A policy of compensating balances may reduce
arrears and delinquency and it increases the effective rate of interest earned on the loan portfolio.
Quality of the Portfolio. Loans issued by CCs would be classified in five risk categories according to the
repayment capacity and experience of borrowers must be analyzed. While data on repayment rates for
Azerbaijan is not readily available, experience in other countries in the region indicates high (as high as
100%) repayment rates.
Based on good practice, it is assumed that 70 percent of the portfolio will fall within Category "A" (lowest
risk), with the remaining 30 percent distributed among the other four categories.
E.    Interest Rate on Project Funds Borrowed by CCs, Financial Investments, and Equity
Interest Rate on Project Funds Borrowed by CCs. In order to induce CC managers to mobilize
deposits, the estimated interest rate on project funds borrowed by CCs for on-lending (13.5%) has been set
to exceed the CC's costs of mobilizing deposits (10%). At the same time, to encourage lending to final
borrowers over lending between CCs, the estimated yield on loans to final borrowers (30%) has been set to
exceed the interest rate on project funds borrowed by CCs. (The interest rate on project funds is also the
rate for lending between CCs.)
Equity and Retained Earnings. It is assumed that CCs would receive US$5,000 in paid-in capital from
their members at the time of incorporation.
Financial Investments. It is assumed that any excess cash held by the CC is lent to other CCs, earning the
interest rate on project funds borrowed by the CC.
Cash-on-hand. Cash-on-hand is assumed to be 10% of deposits outstanding in order to manage daily cash
flows.
F.    Initial Investment
The initial cash outlay for establishing a CC is assumed to be US$8,450 and includes equipment
(US$4,525), furniture (US$2,175), organizational costs (US$1,600), and other investments (US$150).
The largest expenditures are a computer, safe, teller window/counter, and staff training. The initial
investment is recognized as an expense over time as the assets acquired are depreciated and the
organization cost is amortized.
G.    Administrative Expenses
The monthly administrative expenses of the CC are estimated at US$645. This figure includes primarily
rent, supplies, and telecommunications and postage. Miscellaneous expenses are estimated at 5 percent of
administrative expenses. These expenses adjust monthly for inflation with an elasticity of 75 percent.
H.    Personnel Expenses and the Productivity of Employees
Salary and Incentives. It is assumed that the employees of the CC will earn a base salary and
-71-



performance bonuses based on the performance of the CC.
Performance Bonuses. It is assumed that the employees will receive performance bonuses equal to 5
percent of the profits of the CC .
Fringe Benefits. The salaries assumed in the base case already include fringe benefits as a fixed
percentage of the base monthly salary.
Recruitment and Training of New Employees. The non-salary cost of recruiting and training additional
staff is estimated at US$250 per new employee.
Salaries and Number of Employees. It is assumed that the CC will begin with three full-time employees:
one manager, one accountant, and one cashier. The monthly salary expense for these three employees is
estimated at US$475.
Growth of Salaries. Nominal salaries are assumed to adjust with respect to inflation every three months
with an elasticity of 90 percent.
Productivity of Employees. The need to hire additional staff is determined by the productivity of the
cashier and loan officers. It is assumed that a loan officer and a cashier could handle an average of 350
accounts each.
I.     Discount Rate for Future Cash Flows
The base case discounted future cash flows at 12 percent, 25 percent, and 50 percent.
SUMMARY OF MODEL RESULTS
-72-



I. Interest Revenue                                            8,804  22.056  37,632  55,804  76,909
1. Interest revenue from loans to other cooperatives            0       0       0        0       0
2. Interest and commission revenue from lending              8.804  22,056  37,632  55,804  76,909
Short-term loans                                         4.689  11.787  20.120  29.843  41.135
Interest received on loans                             4,527  11.438  19.554  29,021  40,019
Commissions received on loans                            206     448     731   1.062   1,445
Interest received for penalties for arrears              22       71     128     196     274
less: Interest revenue accrued but not received           66     170     293     436     602
Long-term loans                                          4. .   10,269  17,512  25,961  35.774
Interest received on loans                             3.980   9.978  17.038  25.274  34.840
Commissions received on loans                            174     378     617     896   1,219
Interest received for penalties for arrears               19      62     112     170     238
Less: Interest revenue accrued but not received           58     148     255     380     524
3. Interest revenue from financial investments                  0       0        0       0       0
II. Interest Expense                                           3,360   8,129  13,766  20.806  28,534
1. Interest expense for deposits mobilized                    585   1,482   2.534   3.763   5.190
Passbook accounts                                           157     399      682   1,013   1,397
Short-term time deposits                                      0       0        0       0       0
Medium-term time deposits                                     0       0        0       0       0
Long-term time deposits                                       0       0        0       0       0
Compensating balances                                       428   1,083   1,852   2,750   3,793
2. Interest expense for project funds borrowed by cooperative  2,774   6,647  11,232  17.043  23.344
III. Gross Financial Margin (I - ll)                           5,444  13.927  23.866  34.998  48,376
IV. Expense for Provision for Loan Losses                      4,439   6,354   8,559  11.106  14,039
VI. Net Interest Income After Provisions (l1l - IV - V)        1.005   7.574  15.307  23.892  34.337
VIl. Operating expenses                                        8,511   8,715   8,925   8,955   9,177
1. Personnel expenses                                      3,040   3,130   3,222   3,317   3,415
2. Administrative expenses                                 3.945   4.055   4.167   4,282   4,400
3. Expenses for depreciation and amortization              1,328   1,328   1,328   1,142   1,142
4. Miscellaneous expenses                                    197     203     208     214      220
VIII. Revenue from other operations                               0.    0          0       0       0
IX. Net Income before taxes and Performance bonuses (VI - VII + Vil)  -7,506  -1.142   6,382  14,936  25.160
Performance bonuses for personnel                                 0       0      319     747   1,258
X. Net income (loss) before tax imposed on profits            -7.506  -1.142   6,063  14.190  23,902
Xl. Tax imposed on profits                                        0        0       0       0       0
XII. Net income (loss) (X - XI)                               -7.506  -1.142   6.063  14.190  23.902
-73-



BiLA1S   SJ4EET                                               y  .  'f W72   Y.r 3   .er 4  YearS
Assets
i. Cash and loans to other cooperatives                        1.594   3.466   5.661   8.220  11.188
1. Cash-on-hand                                             1.594   3.466   5.661   8.220  11.188
2. Loans to other cooperatives                                  -       -        -       -       -
II. Net loan portfolio                                        67.611  146.972 240.060 348.541 474.414
1. Short-term loans                                        40.762  88.773 144.999 210.522 286,552
2. Long-term loans                                         33,373  72.381  118.225 171.649 233.639
3. Interest in arrears                                        325     818   1.397   2.073   2.858
4. less: Reserve for loan losses                           (6.848) (14.999) (24.561) (35.704) (48,635)
Ill. Financial investments
IV. Fixed assets, net of accumulated depreciation              4.727   2.603    480   4.329   2.044
V. Other assets (organization costs net of accumulated amortization)  1.067  533   -       -       -
Total Assets                                                  74,998 153.575 246,202 361.089 487,647
Liabilities
I. Deposits mobilized                                         15.938  34.660  56.613  82.196 111.881
1. Passbook accounts                                        4.270   9.298  15.188  22.051  30.015
2. Short-term time deposits
5. Compensating balances                                   11.668  25.362  41.425  60.145  81.866
II. Project funds borrowed by cooperative for on-lending      54.060 113.915 184.588 273,893 370.766
Ill. Other liabilities
Total Liabilities                                             69.998 148.575 241.202 356.089 482.647
Equity
Paid-in capital                                                5.000   5.000   5,000   5.000   5,000
Retained earnings                                                  -       -       -       -       -
Profit (loss) in period
Total Equity                                                   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000
Total Liabilities And Eauity                                  74.998 153.575 246.202 361.089 487.647
AVERAGE B'E                                                   YVar 1  Ys, u2.Y4a3  Yoar 4  YearV IS
Net Loans                                                     53.098 129,835 219.999 325.170 447.305
Reserve for loan losses                                        5.356  13.237  22,498  33,301  45,847
Gross Loans                                                   58.454 143.072 242.497 358.471 493,152
Deposits mobilized                                            12.432  30.532  51.787  76.581  105.375
Compensating balances                                          9,099  22,335  37,887  56.029  77.098
Voluntary deposits                                             3.333   8,197  13,900  20,552  28,277
Arrears                                                         232      709   1.270   1,925   2,686
Fixed assets net of depreciation                               5.169   3.046     922   4.805   2.520
Project funds borrowed by cooperative for on-lending          43,256 101.047 169.424 256.052 349.987
Loans to other cooperatives                                       0       0        0       0       0
Financial investments                                             0       0        0       0       0
Cash on hand                                                   1.243   3.053   5179   7.658  10.538
fNANCtAL RATICOS                                              Year1   Year 2  Year3  Year4  YearS
Loan Production
Number of loans outstanding                                    100     205     316     432     555
Average loan balance                                           531     632     696     752      807
Number of loans outstanding per loan officer                    50     103     158     216     277
Deposit Production
Number of voluntary deposit accounts                            21      42      65      89      114
Average deposit balance                                        162     195     214     232      249
Profitability Indicators
Return on assets                                            -24.7%   -1.7%    5.4%    8.4%   10.4%
Asset utilization                                            29.0%   32.3%   33.3%   33.1%   33.4%
Profit margin                                               -85.3%   -5.2%   16.1%   25.4%   31.1%
Grossfinancialmarain                                         18.6%   19.5%   19.7%   19.5%   19.6%
-74-



Internal
Rate of
Discount Rate      Return
12%   1 25%        500% 
1  1346911   (1.301)1 (13.340)
m. SELF-SUSTAINABILITY OF CREDIT COOPERATIVES
Introduction:   The ability of credit cooperatives (CCs) created under the project to achieve
self-sustainability depends strongly on the following factors: (i) the ability of the CCs to charge an
on-lending interest rate which covers the on-lending interest rate margin (cost of funds, expense for
provision for loan losses, operating expense, and performance bonuses for personnel); and (ii) their ability
to eventually eliminate dependence on subsidies.
Decomposition of On-lending Interest Rate Charged by Credit Cooperatives: As Table I shows, the
components of the on-lending interest rate margin are: (i) the cost of funds (cost of mobilizing deposits and
cost of project funds borrowed for on-lending); (ii) expense for provision for loan losses; (iii) operating
expense (personnel, administrative, depreciation and amortization, and miscellaneous costs); and (iv)
performance bonuses for personnel.
The on-lending rate charged by CCs depends largely on the extent to which the CCs can control primarily:
(i) operating expense; and (ii) expense for provision for loan losses. This is the case because: (i) these
components are two of the largest components of the margin; and (ii) CCs can directly affect the size of
these components through the application of sound business practices which, for example, could contain
administrative costs and maximize loan collections.
As Table I illustrates, the on-lending rate charged by CCs will cover the margin in years three and four as
long as operating expense and expense for provision for loan losses are adequately controlled. During
years one and two, the on-lending rate will not cover the margin, since the average loan portfolio
outstanding is still small relative to expenses.
Table 1. Decomposition of on-lending interest rate on the basis of expenses as a percentage of
average gross
oan portfolio outstanding
MARGIN                                                    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4 Average
Weiahted av. cost of funds (deposits, Droiect funds, equity*)  0.120    0.117    0.123    0.129    0.122
Expense for provision for loan losses                      0.235    0.097    0.074    0.064    0.118
Operatina expense                                          0.495    0.143    0.082    0.054    0.194
Personnel expense                                        0.177    0.051    0.030    0.020    0.069
Administrative expense                                   0.229    0.067  . 0.038    0.026    0.090
Depreciation and amortization                            0.078    0,022    0.012    0.007    0.030
Miscellaneous expense                                    0.011    0.003    0.002   0.001    0.004
Performance bonuses for personnel                          0.000    0.000    0.002    0.004    0.001
TOTAL MARGIN                                               0.850    0.357    0.281    0.250    0.435
WEIGHTED AV. ON-LENDING RATE (short & long-term loans)     0.309    0.309    .309    0.309    0.309
WEIGHTED AV. ON-LENDING RATE - TOTAL MARGIN               -0.541   -0.048    0.028    0.059   -0.126
* Equity includes US $7,000 grant per CC to finance initial investment costs
-75-



Subsidy Dependence: The Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI) measures the percentage increase in a CC's
on-lending interest rate required to compensate for the elimnination of subsidies. A negative SDI implies
that the CC operates on a self-sustainable basis and that its on-lending rate could be reduced while at the
same time eliminating subsidies. The SDI is a percentage calculated based on the annual subsidy received
by the CC divided by the average annual loan portfolio outstanding multiplied by the on-lending interest
rate charged by the CC: SDI = S / (LP * n), where S = annual subsidy received by the CC, LP = average
annual loan portfolio outstanding, and n  actual on-lending interest rate charged by the CC.
Subsidies received by a CC were assumed to consist of: (i) a grant (US $7,000) to finance initial
investment costs; and (ii) the difference between the interest rate on project funds (13.5%) and the
estimated market interest rate (15%). Annual subsidy is a dollar amount calculated by summing: (i) the
amount of project funds borrowed by the CC for on-lending charged by the difference between the market
and concessional interest rates on these funds; (ii) the amount of equity charged by the market interest rate
minus profits; and (iii) other types of annual subsidies (the above-mentioned grant in this case): S = A
(m-c) + [(E * m) - P1 + K, where A = average project funds borrowed by the CC for on-lending, m =
market interest rate paid by the CC on borrowed funds, c = actual interest rate paid by the CC on project
funds, E = equity, P = profits, and K = other types of annual subsidies.
Table 2 shows a high level of subsidy dependence in year one (i.e., the CC's on-lending rate would have to
be increased by 230.5% (71.2 percentage points) from 30.9% to 102.1% for the CC to operate
subsidy-free), and moderate subsidy dependence in year two (the on-lending rate would have to be
increased by 18.1% (5.6 percentage points) to 36.5% for the CC to operate subsidy-free). The SDI is
negative in year three, indicating that the CC is not subsidy dependent (i.e., the on-lending rate could be
decreased by as much as 6.2% [1.9 percentage points] to as low as 29% and still allow the CC to operate
subsidy-free). A negative SDI is also shown for year four (i.e., the on-lending rate could be decreased by
as much as 16% [4.9 percentage points] to as low as 26% and still allow the CC to operate subsidy-free).
Table 2. Subsidy Dependence Index (SDI)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
Av. gross loan portfolio (US$)                            34,199  121,065  216,703  328.415
Subsidies (USS)                                          24,363    6,779   -4,140  -16,211
SDI*                                                      2.305   0.181   -0.062   -0.160
Weiuthed av. on-lending rate                               0.309    0.309    0.309    0.309
% point adi. to on-lending rate req'd to eliminate subsidv  0.712    0.056   -0.019   -0.049
On-lending rate required to eliminate subsidy          1   1.021    0.365    0.290    0.260
* Negative SDI indicates subsidy independence and that the on-lending rate could be reduced while still
maintaining subsidv indevendence
Self-sustainability: Self-sustainability is the inverse of subsidy dependence. The credit cooperatives
achieve financial self-sustainability when their return on equity, net of any subsidy received, equals or
exceeds the opportunity cost of equity funds. As Table 3 shows, on this basis, CCs would reach financial
self-sustainability by their third year of operations.
-76-



Table 3. Self-sustainability
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
Return on eauitv net of subsidy                              n/a     n/a   0.628    0.828
Ooportunitv cost of eauity net of subsidy                  0.150    0.150    0.150    0.150
Self-sustainability (ROE net of subsid >= opp. cost of equity)  no    no     yes      yes
-77-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. Goods and technical
assistance to be financed by the co-financiers will be procured in accordance with the public procurement
regulations or the regulations and practices of each co-financier. These procurement arrangements will be
revised, as necessary, for the subsequent phases of the program. A general procurement notice will be
published in the Development Business of the UN in June 1999.
Procurement responsibilities
For the investment part of the project, procurement will be the responsibility of the PMU. For
sub-projects financed under the credit line and executed by sub-borrowers, procurement procedures will
comply with those customary for operations through financial intermediaries. Procurement will be the
responsibility of sub-borrowers who will have access to technical assistance in this work from PFIs and
PMU. The PMU will have at least one additional procurement officer experienced in Bank-financed
procurement and a procurement assistant fully trained in procurement under Bank-financed projects. A
project launch workshop will be held close to effectiveness. The Project launch workshop will include
training sessions on procurement specifically for the staff of the PMU, Advisory Centers, and the PFIs. The
PMU will be responsible for ensuring that the PFIs and sub-borrowers adhere to Bank procurement
guidelines. An assessment of the procurement capacity of the PMU has been conducted and the report has
been submitted to the Regional Procurement Adviser. As a result of the assessment, it has been determined
that although the PMUJ has the procurement capacity because of its experience with procurement under the
Bank and IFAD financed Farm Privatization Project, the environment in which it operates is not conducive
to transparent, competitive and economic procurement. The procurement plan and the procurement
arrangements discussed below reflect those thresholds.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The investment part of the project include procurement of goods, services and civil works.
These will be procured as follows:
(a) Goods. For goods procurement packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or more each, the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure will be used; and for contracts under
US$100,000 each, International Shopping (IS), based on comparison of quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers in two different countries will be applied. For locally available
off-the-shelf goods, estimated to cost up to US$50,000 each, National Shopping will be applied,
based on comparison of quotations obtained from at least three suppliers. For the purchase of
goods to be awarded through ICB, the Borrower may grant a margin preference of 15 percent or
-78-



the amount of applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic
manufacturers of goods in accordance with the Guidelines referred to above. The aggregate for
each procurement method is given in the footnotes under Table A.
(b) Civil Works. Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more will
be procured through ICB; under US$200,000 NCB will be used. However, there is no ICB and
NCB contract in the project. The procedure applicable for procurement of small works will be
used for contracts up to US$100,000.  These works will be procured under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation will include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. For the aggregate,
see Table A.
(c) Consultants' Services. Consultants' services estimated to cost more than US$200,000
each will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedure. Such
contracts will be advertised in the Development Business and a national newspaper for
expression of interest from which a shortlist will be drawn. Consultants for assignments of a
standard or routine nature may be selected through the least cost selection method. There will be
a sole source (SS) procurement contract for the research strategy and competitive grants
estimated not to exceed US$60,000. The International Service for national Research (ISNAR)
under the Consultative Group for International Research (CGIAR) will be selected on a sole
source basis because of the specialized nature of this activity. The Project will have one more
sole source contract (US$198,000), for which the Centro International de Mejoriamento de Maiz
Trigo (CIMMYT) under CGIAR is selected on the basis of the specialized nature of this activity
and the recognized international capacity of the research institute. An institutional development
specialist for veterinary services and an epidemiologist will be selected through Consultant
Qualifications (CQ). Individual experts providing considerable amount of services, such as
extension, veterinary, etc., will be selected in accordance with Part V of the consultant
guidelines. There are no consulting firms in Azerbaijan for these services. The Borrower will
be required to submit an annual work program for the use of the services of individual
consultants for the Bank's prior approval. A contracting specialist will be appointed under the
project. This specialist will develop contracting procedures for individual consultants. Contracts
for individuals below $5,000 each shall be based on advertisement in a national newspaper of
general circulation. The criteria for the selection of individuals will be formulated in agreement
with the Bank. The Regional Advisory Centres (RACs) will administer the individual contracts
and will be responsible for their performance. For the aggregates, see the footnotes under Table
A.
(d) Credit-line and the Competitive Grants. Funds from the credit line (US$9.958 million)
and for competitive grants (US$1.142 million) will be utilized by  a large number of
sub-borrowers for procuring various sizes of goods, equipment, civil works, and on-site
technical assistance. The average size of sub-loans is expected to be less than US$5,000
equivalent for a large number of farms. In order to allow sub-borrowers the use of commercial
practices in procurement of goods, the Bank has reviewed the procurement practices in
Azerbaijan and has determined that reasonably acceptable commercial practices are applied by
the private sector and that Azerbaijan farms do seek multiple competitive prices from different
-79-



suppliers. Therefore, sub-borrowers will conduct all their purchases through the commercial
practices. In this regard, the assessment report includes an action plan to further familiarize the
sub-borrowers with economic purchasing practices.
Recurrent Costs. The project includes US$2.7 million to meet the operational costs on declining
basis, consisting of salaries of locally recruited staff and consultants office supplies, utilities, vehicle
operation and maintenance, consumables, communications, etc. These will be procured in accordance
with an annual budget to be approved by IDA.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank. With respect to Services, prior Bank
review will be required of all terms of reference, irrespective of the contract value. For each contract
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical
evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals.
For contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more the Bank will be notified of the results of the technical
evaluation prior to the opening of the financial proposals. For contracts with firms estimated to cost less
than US$100,000, the Bank will review the terms of reference. For contracts with individual consultants
costing US$25,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment
shall be fumished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other contracts
will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years. The anticipated completion
date is September 30, 2003 and the closing date is March 31, 2004. Disbursement will follow normal Bank
procedures and will be made against eligible expenditures. Table 3 below shows estimated disbursements
during the life of the project and Table 4 shows allocation of credit proceeds. The financing percentages in
Table 4 are net of any taxes as the activities under the project are tax-exempt.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for: (a) goods contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 each; (b) works contracts less than US$100,000 each; and (c) consultants contracts with
firms less than US$100,000, (d) individuals costing US$25,000 equivalent or less each, (e) all contracts
under the credit-line, (f) competitive grant; and (g) operating cost. Full documentation in support of SOE
will be retained by PMU for at least two years after the closing date of the credit. This information will be
made available for review by Bank missions during project supervision and by auditors, the minimum
application size for payments directly from the grant account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20
percent of the special account authorization
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, the PMU will open a Special Account before credit effectiveness and
maintain it until project completion. The Special account will be drawn upon to meet payments to
contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. The special account will be established in a
commercial bank in Azerbaijan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
-80-



The selected bank should have: (a) significant foreign correspondence network covering all
currencies; (b) reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct
foreign payments and other international transactions; (c) capacity to perform a wide range of banking
services at local branches, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic or regional banks,
issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies; (d) the capacity of
maintain adequate accounts for the Special Account as required by the World Bank and provide
monthly bank statements to PMU; (e) willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to ensure that amounts
deposited in the SA will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to a
commercial bank by the Borrower; and (f) willingness to charge competitive rates for their services and
provide reasonable interest income to the balances held.
The initial allocation to the Special Account will be limited to US$1.0 million. The initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$2.0 million once aggregate disbursement
of US$5.0 million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents. Project accounts will be operated for discrete activities
and funded from the Special Account based on disbursement applications signed by the authorized officials.
-81 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
: . : . ' ? sg~r~                     -                                         .  ,=Towcoat
1. Works __                           0.0                            0.4             0.0            0.4
(0.0)          (0.0)           (0.3)          (0.0)           (0.3)
2. Goods                              5.3             0.0            0.7             0.0            6.0
(5.3)          (0.0)           (0.6)          (0 0)           (5.9)
3. Services                           0.0             0.0            10.2            0.0            10.2
and training                         (0.0)           (0.0)          (10.0)          (0.0)          (10.0)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.0             0.0            11.1            2.4            13.5
(0.0)          (0.0)          (11.1)          (0.0)          (11.1)
5. Operating Cost                     0.0             0.0            3.6             0.0            3.6
(0.0)          (0.0)           (2.7)          (0.0)           (2.7)
Total                              5.3             0.0            26.0            2.4            33.7
(5.3)          (0.0)          (24.7)          (0.0)          (30.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
3. Works-Other includes twenty minor works ($0.30 million);
4. Goods-ICB includes 17 ICB contracts ($5.3million);
5. Goods- Others includes: a) II NS contract ($0.22 million)
b) eight IS contracts ($0.38 million)
6. Services-Other includes: a) eight QCBS contracts ($4.85 million);
b) 2 CQ contracts (US$0.201 million);
c) 24 contracts of Least Cost ($1.061 million);
d) several contracts of individual experts ($0.98 million);
e) two sole source contracts ($0.258 million); and
f) Training $2.65 million
7. Miscellaneous-Other includes:
a) Credit Lines $9.958 million
b) Competitive Grants $1.142 million
-82-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms             5.0       0.0        0.0        1.1       0.0        0.3        0.0    . 6.4
(4.8)     (0.0)     (0.0)      ( 1.0)     (0.0)      (0.3)     (0.0)      (6.1 )
B. Individuals       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.2        1.0        0.0        1.2
(0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.2)      (1.0)     (0.0)      (1.2)
Total    5.0       0.0        0.0       1.1        0.2        1.3        0.0       7.6
(4.8)     (0.0)     (0.0)      (1 .0)     (0.2)      (1.3)     (0.0)      (7.3)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guideleines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
-83-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
-ExpndJAroaggOr         (U$hQad}Mf~                                        ions
1. Works                    >0.200                 ICB                 0.00
<0.200                NCB                  0.00
<0 .100               MW                   0.00
2. Goods                    >0.100                 ICB                 5.30
3. Services                 >0.100              QCBS/CQ                 5.05
>0.025                Ind                 0.318
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  10.668
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-84-



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Goods                                      5.3            100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost and
80% local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Civil Works                                0.2                          80%
Consultant services                        7.2                         100%
Training                                   2.0                          90%
Credit Line                                9.2                          80%
Competitive research grants                 1.3                         100%
Recurrent Costs                            2.5           90% of expenditures incurred through 31
December 2000, 80% of expenditures
incurred through 31 December 2001,
70% of expenditures incurred through 31
December 2002 and 50% of expenditures
thereafter.
Unallocated                                2.3
Total Project Costs                        30.0
Total                                      30.0
-85-



Section 1: Procurem ent Review
Goods and Civil        ICB            NCB              IS              NS           Minor      Other methods   Percentage of
Works                                                                           Works                       loan amount
subject to
_________________                                                                    pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i3 or  revie'w
Procurement       Goods  > $0.100                Goods < $0.100    G < $0.050
thresholds:               ($5.300)                      ($0380)        ($0.220)
Individual and                                                                    W < $0.100
aggregate                                                                         ($0.3 00)
Prior Review      All                                                                                           $5.300
($5.300)                                                                                      17.7%
Consultants       QCBS              QBS          Co                 LCS           Individuals    Sole Source
Procurement       ($4.850)          NA           ($0.2)             ($1.06)       ($0.98)       ($0.258)
method thresholds
Prior Review      All                _           All                              All terms of                  $5.316
($4. 850)                      ($0.2)                          reference;                     17.7%
> $0025 full
review
_______________                                ~~~~~~ ~~~~($0.3  18)
Ex-post           Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Each supervision mission will include a procurement specialist to conduct
ex-post reviews. One out of five contracts for goods, works and consultant services and one out of twenty credit line
contracts will be subiect to ex-post review.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirement review
Capacity of the implementation agency to conduct procurement has been assessed. As a result, the following action plan will be implemented:
(i) PMU should appoint an additional procurement officer experienced in Bank financed procurement before the effectiveness of the credit or
the project launch workshop whichever is earlier.
(ii) It should prepare and implement a training program (training in Turin or elsewhere) for the new procurement officer which should begin
with training through the project launch workshop and should be completed within six months of the credit effectiveness.
(iii) The PMU should develop a computerized procurement monitoring system both to keep track of procurement actions as well as to produce
up-to-date periodic procurement report for both itself and for the Bank.
(iv) At an appropriate time but immediately after the financial intermediaries are established, a procurement seminar should e held for the
financial intermediaries to familiarize them with procurement requirements under the credit-line.
(v) In order to familiarize the credit-line beneficiaries, who will be mainly farmers, with the procurement requirements, the PMU should hold
short procurement sessions in order to familiarize them with the procedures they will be required to follow under the project. During the first
half of the project, these seminars should be held at short intervals. In this regard, the PMU should develop a program before credit
effectiveness and complete its im lementation within six months of the effectiveness date.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  Are the bidding documents for the procurement
CPAR under preparation                                                             actions of the first year ready by negotiations
Yes                            No  E
will be discussed durinn appraisal
Section 3: Training Information a d Development on Procurement
Estimated date   Estimated date of    Indicate if there is      Domestic Preference for     Domestic Preference for Works, if
of Project      publication of      procurement subject to      Goods                       applicable
Launch          General             mandatory SPN in                                         Yes   l         No  0
Workshop        Procurement Notice   Development Business       Yes  0          No   l
06/00/99        June 1999           Yes  0
No.....E
Retroactive financing                                           Advance procurement
Yes  O         No  E                          Explain:          Yes  O          No  0        Explain
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement monitoring system will be established at the PCT which will collect and
keep up to-date all procurement data. The PCT will use this data in progress reports to the Bank.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: None
-86-



Section 4: Procurement Staffine
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name: Naushad Khan,
Procurement Specialist   Ext: 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: The Resident Mission does not have an accredited procurement staff.
However, the project officer in the RM is familiar with procurement. He will serve as a liaison between the procurement staff at headquarters
and the beneficiary procurement staff.
-87-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Project.Schedule               -l-             -  PlActual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  14                       16
First Bank mission (identification)      10/07/97                    10/26/97
Appraisal mission departure              06/20/98                    09/28/98
Negotiations                             05/03/99                    05/03/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            09/08/99
Prepared by:
Project Management Unit, the State Land Committee, the State Veterinary Committee, Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Economy
Preparation assistance:
Japan PHRD Grant No. TF 029677;
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Laura Tuck                        Sector Leader/ Quality Control
Rodrigo Chaves                    Rural Credit Specialist
Subramaniam Janakiram             Financial and Project Management Specialist
Rufiz Chirag-Zade                 Project Implementation and Institutional Specialist
Bulent Ozbilgin                   Social Assessment, Monitoring and Evaluation
Hannah Koilpillai                 Disbursement
Naushad Khan                      Procurement
L. Holstein, E. Cook, T. Schillhom van Peer Reviewers
Veen, M. Goldberg, A. Golan
Alma Zhandauletova                Financial Management Officer
Kanagasabai Loganathan            Financial Management Specialist
Roy Southworth                    Task Team Leader/Agriculture
T. V. Sampath                     Land Registration Specialist
Valencia M. Copeland              Task Team Assistant
Dilek Barlas                      Lawyer
Tevfik Yaprak                     Resident Representative
-88-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (April 27, 1999)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoir Preparation Mission (October 16, 1998)
Back To Office Report (November 23, 1998)
Aide memoir Pre-Appraisal Mission (December 17, 1998)
Back to Office Report (December 21, 1998)
Aide memoir Appraisal Mission (March 20, 1999)
Back to Office Report (April 27, 1999)
C. Other
Information and Advisory Services - Working Paper - Draft January 1999 (under revision)
Real Estate Registration Component - Working Paper - April 5, 1999
Agricultural Strategy Component - Working Paper - December 1998
Credit Component - Demand for Credit and Savings Mobilization Potential in Rural Areas - January 1999
Profitability of Rural Credit Cooperatives in Azerbaijan - A Financial Projections Model - April 1999
Discussion Note on the Legal and Prudential Framework for Credit Cooperatives in Azerbaijan - April
1999
Social Assessment of the Azerbaijan Agricultural Development and Credit Project-April 1999
Draft Agency Agreement for Implementation of the Credit Project - April 1999
Financial Management Review and Analysis - Arthur Andersen - January 1999
Review of Financial Management Arrangements - K. Loganathan - FMS - March 1999
Agricultural Sector Note: Building Post-Reform Recovery - draft - April 1999
*Including electronic files
-89-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Difference between expect
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                              IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev
Number of Closed Projects: 2
AZ-PE-35770    1999 GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN  PILOT RECONSTRUCTION                   0.00       20.00       0.00      19.32     2 72      0 OC
AZ-PE-55155    1998 GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN  URGENT ENV. INVEST.                    0.00       20.00       0.00      20.22     082       0.0C
AZ-PE-40544    1997 AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC        FARM PRiVATIZATION                    0.00       14.70       0.00       9.62     4.56      0 OC
AZ-PE-8287     1997 AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC        GAS REHAB                             0.00       20.20       0.00      13.85     4.87      0.0C
AZ-PE-8283     1996 REPUB. OFAZERBAiJAN        INSTITUTION BUILDING                  0.00       18.00       0.00       7.81     612       0Cf
AZ-PE-8282     1995 GOVT OF AZERBAIJAN         PETROLEUM TA                          0.00       20.80       0.00      12.69    11.70      0.0(
Total:      0.00     113.70       0.00       83.61    3079       0.0(
Active        Closed
Projects      Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       50.88          96.42         147.30
of which has been repaid:        0.00          0.00           0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:      174.70         142.00         316.70
Amount sold:         0.00           0.00           0.00
of which repaid:       0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:       83.51          42.74         126.25
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-90-



AZERBAIJAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Mar-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997/98             Baku Coca Cola                9.63    0.00    2.30    0.00    9.63    0.00       2.30    0.00
1998                Azerb. JV Bank                 0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                SEF Azdemiryol                 0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                SEF Azerigaz                   0.40    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.40    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                SEF Rabitabank                 0.40    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.35    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                Amoco Caspian                 32.83    0.00    0.00    12.31   24.62    0.00     0.00   12.31
1999                Early Oil Fin                 15.44    0.00    0.00     5.79    11.58    0.00    0.00    5.79
1999                Lukoil                        19.30    0.00    0.00    7.24    4.64    0.00      0.00    2.32
1999                Turkish Petrol                13.03    0.00    0.00    4.89    9.77    0.00      0.00    4.89
Total Portfolio:        91.53    0.00    3.30   30.23   61.10    0.00       2.30   25.31
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               ATOIL                           5.25    1.31     0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       5.25    1.31     0.00    0.00
-91-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AZERBAIJAN: Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Euroce &                                                      9129198
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Central      Low-
Azerbalian       Asia   Income        Development diamond'
1087
Population. mid-year (millions)                             7.6        476      2.048                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alias method. USS)                          510      2.320        350
GNP (At/as method, US$ billions)                            3.9      11t06        722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Pooulation tX)                                              0.B         0.2       2.1
Labor force (%)                                             1.4        0.5        2.3      GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available 1991 -97\                                     capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of DoDulation below national Doverty fine)
Urban DoOulation (% of total ooDulation)                     56         67         28
Life exvectanev at birth (vears)                             70         69         59
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 live birthtsJ                    19         25         78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                   10          ..        61                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% Of PoDulation)                        ..         -.        71
Illiteracv (% of oouhation age 15')                           .4 ,r 47
Gross primarv enrollment (% of schoo-age oooulation)         87         92         91                    Azerbeijan
Male                                                                            100                    Low-income group
Female                                                                           81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976      19S6       190S       1997
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billionas                                  .         ..        3A4       4.1
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                                         23X6       26.8                        Trade
ExDorts of !oods and services/GDP                                     20.8       18.9
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                                             2 .8       8.2
Gross national savinas/GDP                                             3.2        7.8
Current account balance/GDP                                           -25.5     -23 7                                     Ie      n
Interest oaYmentstGDP                                                   0.4       08       Domesticn
Total debt/GDP                                                         12.8      12.3      Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                                              1.3      21.2
Present value of debt/GDP                           .         .         9           -
Present value of debtlexportS                                         43.3
Indebtedness
1976.86   19S7-97      1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                         1.3         5.6                               Azerbaijan
GNP per capita                                              0.8         3.9                                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                               6.9       29.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976      1986       1996       1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GOP)
Aariculture                                                            22.9       21.9        '
Industry                                                              19.2       18.4
Manufacturina                                                        57.        59
Services                                                              57.9       597        -50
Private consumption                                                   88.2       84.0               92   93   94   9s   96   97
General oovernment consumDtion                                          9.0       78                    -    GDI       e-GDP
ImDorts of goods and services                                         41.6       37.5
1976-86   1987-97       1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual crowth)
Agriculture                                                             3.0       -6.0     o0
Industrv                                                               -0.7      22.0      40
Manufacturina                                                        -6.7        0.1
Services                                                                1.3        4.0     20
Private consumption                                                     2.5        2.7
General govemment consumption                                           9.0      30.0    -20
Gross domestic investment                                             70.7       26.9              92    93    94    95   96   97
Imports of aoods and services                                         52.9       20.1               -     Exports    e*imports
Gross national product                                                 -0.4       3 1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv fin bold) compared with its income-aroup average, If data are missinag the diamond will
-92-



Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976      1986       1996       1997      |-Inflation (%l
Domestkc Prices 
(% chanoe)                                                                                  2,000
Consumer prices                                      ..                 20.0        3.3     1,500
Implicit GDP deflator                               ..         .        17.2        5.5     1,000
Government finance                                                                           soo50~K
(% of GOP, includes current orants)                                                         I
Current revenue                                                         17.6       19.7                92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                              ..         ..         ..          .                       GDP deflator   S  CPI
Overall surolus/deficit                              ..        ..       -2.8       -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                    1976      1986       1996       1997       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exoorts (fob)                                  ..        ..        789       857      2.000
Commoditv 1                                         ..
Commoditv 2                                         ..        .          ..        ..    1,5000
Manufactures
Total imDorts (cifl                                  ..        ..      1.338      1.708     1.000
Food                                                                                         0
Fuel and energv                                    ..
Capital goods                                      ..        ..          ..
Export price index (1995=100)                        ..        .         103        98
imoort Price index (1995=100)                        ..        ..        102        97      |              Exports      *lmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                            ..        ..        101        101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976      1986       1996       1997       Current account balance to GDP ratlo (/)
(US$ millions)
Exports of coods and services                       ..         ..       938       1.154      10
Imports of goods and services                       ..         ..      1.764      1.984
Resource balance                                    ..        ..       -826       -830        0   -A
Net income                                           ..    ..    -52    -52   -10                       E         W          E "
Net current transfers                                ..        ..         67        33
Current account balance                             ..         ..      -811       -849      -20
Financing items (net)                               ..         ..        835       992      -30
Chanaes in net reserves                              ..        ..        -24       -143           91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Memo:
Reserves includina gold (USS millions)              ..         ..        214       467
Conversion rate (DEC. Jocal/USS)                     ..        ..    4,301.3   4,200.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976      1986       1996       1997
(USS millions)                                                                               Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandina and disbursed                                     435       504
lBRD                                                                     0         0
IDA                                                                    64        116                      F -S  G-4
Total debt service                                                        t 0       78                 E - 73                 116
IBRD                                                                     0         0
IDA                                                                     0 .                      D- 36
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                        53         60
Official creditors                                                     44         26
Private creditors                                                        0         8
Foreian direct investment                                             601        650
Portfolio eguitv                                                         0         0                       0 - 267
World Bank orogram
Commitments                                                            20         85        - IBRD                         E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                                          36         55       - IDA     D Other m.ltilateral    F - Private
Principal repavments                                                     0         0      _IMF                             G -Short-term
Net flows                                                              36         55
Interest pavments                                                        0         0
Net transfers                                                          35         55
Development Economics                                                                                                              9/29198
-93-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Agriculture Development and Rural Finance Project
Credit Cooperatives: Legal and Prudential Framework
Legal Framework and Incorporation
An appropriate legal framework for the creation and functioning of Credit Cooperatives (CCs) is
already in place in Azerbaijan. The following is the complete set of legal requirements to create CCs:
(i) Achieving status as legal entity under any of the charters allowed in the "Law on Enterprises"
-namely as Limited Liability Enterprises (LLEs), General Partnerships (GPs), or (c) Stock Corporations
(SCs). It is expected that the large majority of CCs created under the project will opt for LLE charters.
(ii) Adopting statutes (ratified by the CC general assembly) that are consistent with the chosen
charter of incorporation for instance the choice of a GP charter implies necessarily that the statutes provide
for unlimited liability of the individual members while a SC charter would imply that certain cooperative
rules could not be enforced as those cooperative rules would contradict provisions within the "Law on
Enterprises" (e.g., one man-one vote vs. one share-one vote).
(iii) Obtaining an special license from the Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB). This special license
will be issued under a transitory ANB decision -"Rules on Licensing and Regulating the Banking Activities
of Credit Cooperatives" (the licensing rules).
Prudential Norms
The regulatory framework for CCs, understood as the complete set of measurable norms that
should be followed by CCs as financial intermediaries, is still incomplete.
At the moment, the licensing rules only impose the following incomplete set of prudential norms on
CCs: (i) a minimum capital of about US $5,000 equivalent, (ii) that credit to a single member cannot
exceed more than 20 percent of assets (this maximum amount for a single borrower is too large as an
leverage ratio of say 10 to 1, the restriction of 20 percent of assets is equivalent to allowing a CC to lend
twice its equity to a single member. The restriction should be establish to respect to capital or net equity),
(iii) that financial statements be audited once a year and submitted quarterly to the ANB, (iv) that CCs
ought have a "chief accountant (it is not specified if the "chief accountant" should be a full time employee
of the CC); (v) CCs have to follow all other regulations applicable to banks and (vi) that CCs be
supervised by ANB or authorized auditors.
It will be necessary, therefore, to complete the regulatory framework for CCs by specifically
defining whether they will be subject to the same standards applicable to banks or whether they ought to
have their own specific standards. The Government and ANB have agreed to issue an ANB decree, under
the authority of the Law on Banks and Banking Institutions, which will replace the existing transitory ANB
decision "Rules on Licensing and Regulating the Banking Activities of Credit Cooperatives" (the licensing
rules). In particular, the new decree will amend the existing temporary rules to include basic prudential
principles set forth in the attachment to this Annex. This decree is a condition for the disbursement of the
-94-



component's credit line and additionally to these basic principles will include norms specifically defined for
CCs on (i) maximum levels of exposure to the risks of financial intermnediation (e.g., interest rate and
liquidity risks); (ii) rules about their ability to make equity investments in other organizations, (iii) capital
adequacy ratios; (iv) investments in non-financial activities; and (v) risk weighted provisioning against loan
losses.
ANB will retain its authority to issue license CCs under transitory decision "Rules on Licensing
and Regulating the Banking Activities of Credit Cooperatives." These Rules have been issued under the
authority granted to ANB by the Law on Banks and Banking Activity. Naturally, ANB's authority to grant
licenses is accompanied by its power (i) to deny applications for licenses, (ii) to remove existing licenses,
(iii) to issue instructions to all licensed and unlicensed credit organizations, including CCs, to cease and
desist from carrying out financial intermediation, and, if necessary, (iv) to order the liquidation of the assets
and the extinction of the charter of any financial intermediary in the country.
The general principle suggested is that the prudential norms should be flexible enough to impose
different regulations on different types of intermediaries if required from a prudential point of view. In
other words, there may valid justifications for different norms for CCs with respect to banks because of
differences in (i) the environment in which the intermediaries operate and (ii) the size and characteristics of
the market niches they serve; and (iii) their institutional design (institutional design refers to the property
rights and rules of control over the organization's assets --for example, a cooperative's assets are controlled
by the system of one-man-one-vote, while the corresponding rule for a commercial bank is
one-share-one-vote). Otherwise, all other prudential norms and accounting procedures will be applied
uniformly for all deposit taking institutions including CCs.
The following are more detailed explanations for possible differential regulation of CCs:
Environment. (i) Liquidity reserves: commercial banks that operate within well-developed
liquidity markets may be allowed to maintain lower liquidity reserves while very "rural" CCs should be
required to maintain larger reserves of cash and liquid assets. (ii) Distribution of earnings: CCs that
function in regions with high co-variant risks may have to be required to retain larger portions of the profits
generated in good years (i.e., not to cash-out lucky bets).
Market size and market niches. (i) Minimum initial capital: there may advantages in allowing
small CC intermediaries to serve a market niche with a comparatively reduced volume of operations (e.g.,
small loans, limited region). In such case, the asset size of the CCs should be consistent with the size of the
market to be served, (ii) Risk assessment on loans and equity ratios: there may be a need to asses risk
differently for CCs that lend based on the character of borrowers rather than on mortgages or other real
assets. This need arises from internationally accepted norms (e.g., Basle's Cooke equity ratio) that require
capital to be at least 8 percent of total assets of a bank (including off-balance activities) after applying
risk-weighting coefficients to the assets. The problem is that, for example, Manat I of mortgage backed
loans requires Manat 0.50 of capital (i.e., =0.50); while Manat 1 of character based loans will require
Manat 1 of capital (i.e., =1). These risk weights reduce the gearing ratio for unsecured loans making them
less attractive, on the one hand, and limits the asset expansion capacity of CCs, on the other. The standard
used for banks will make it almost impossible for CCs to serve a niche of entrepreneurs with low
endowments of fixed assets. Appropriate measuring and frequent monitoring of loan portfolio performance
should be used if risk weights for unsecured loans are reduced for CCs specialized in such clientele.
Prudential Supervision
-95-



Prudential supervision refers to the process of enforcing the regulatory framework. Efforts will be
required to monitor and direct CCs in order to ensure that they obey regulatory requirements and do not
behave imprudently. Since the main purpose is to reduce risk and its negative effects, the practical
challenges are to design indicators to measure these risks, to monitor and analyze the impact that external
events or exogenous shocks might have on the performance of CCs, and to make sure that the data reported
by CCs and fed into the monitoring system are accurate and do reflect their actual situation.
ANB has agreed in principle to (a) establish a division, within the Department of Supervision,
completely specialized in the supervision of CCs and (b) adopt a mechanism for the surveillance of CCs
with two basic components.
The first component of the surveillance mechanism will be an early-warning system based on data
reported by CCs. This will be the off-site component of the supervisory structure. Its main purpose is to
provide a frequent depiction of the financial health and risks of each one of the CCs supervised. The
early-warning system will use standardized computer models to identify those CCs likely to experience
financial distress. Most of these models are based on multivariate discriminate analysis, using a series of
financial ratios as predictive variables. These methods, although sophisticated, are not particularly difficult
to implement and, when properly applied, can be very efficient in predicting failure of intermediaries. In
effect, the specialized literature reports that these models'are almost as effective in such predictions as the
more expensive bank supervisor visits. For instance, the off-site supervision methods used by the United
States regulatory agencies signaled financial instability in 96 percent of the 347 cases of bank failure
occurred between January 1989 and August 1990. The early warning system used in the United States,
denominated CAMEL (i.e., capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, and liquidity), gives
banks a composite grade from 1 (best) to 5 (worst).
The second component of the proposed supervisory system will be a program of actual visits to the
CCs; this is the on-site element of supervision. On-site supervision will be necessary in order to practice
those inspections that, because of their nature, cannot be performed by an off-site analysis (e.g., quality of
internal control) and to verify that the data fed to the off-site surveillance system are correct.
Off-site supervision will be used to set priorities regarding the more expensive on-site inspection
and will include (i) a specialized computer software to periodically process the returns submitted by the
CCs under supervision and (ii) a scoring method to rank CCs and to develop industry standards to assess
troubled CCs.
Detail terms of reference for a complete supervisory system for CCs are being prepared and
consultants will be hired with proceeds from the PHRD grant. Agreement on the supervisory system will
be a condition of project effectiveness.
Attachment: Credit Cooperative Suggested Prudential Standards
The following minimum prudential standards are to be met by all credit cooperatives. The board
of directors of each credit cooperative is responsible for including these standards in the credit cooperative's
internal regulations, the credit committee and the manager for implementing them in the daily operating
procedures and the supervisory committee for ensuring that the credit cooperative complies with them.
Activities
Credit cooperatives will be completely specialized financial intermediaries and are, therefore,
-96-



specifically prohibited to engage in any activity other than the provision to their members of the following
financial services (i) deposits, (ii) credits, (iii) storage of valuables, (iv) payments and transportation of
valuables across regions, (v) management and settlement of accounts, (vi) financial investment advise.
Specialization implies that CC could not perform any services other than the above nor could they
hold equity investments in corporations or legal entities devoted to the provisions of services other than the
above.
Previous authorization from ANB, CCs may hold equity investments in legal entities devoted to
facilitate the provision of the above services to members (e.g., Federations of CCs, amour car company).
Under no circumstance, however, will a CC hold more that 35 percent of its equity in such investments.
Members
Credit cooperatives are specifically prohibited to provide financial services to non-members.
Members of CCs must be (i) individuals (as opposed to legal entities), (ii) residents of the immediate
proximity of the CC at the moment of joining or receiving a credit, and (iii) able to engage in legally
binding and enforceable contracts (e.g., majority of age).
Management
a.    Accounts balanced and current (10 days after the close of the month).
b.     Loan committee delinquency reports complete and current (10 days after the close of the month).
c.     ANB supervisory examination completed and recommendations implemented.
d.     Annual budget prepared and performance evaluated monthly
e.    Key ratios calculated and evaluated monthly (as per the ANB CAMEL standards).
f.     Written credit and savings policies approved and implemented.
g.     Written internal control guidelines approved and implemented.
Reporting
All reports must be prepared based on the uniform reporting format developed and approved by ANB
and submitted in electronic form within 15 days after the close of the month.
Asset Quality
a.     Loan quality: the sum of reserves plus loan loss provision (allowance) is greater than or equal to
delinquent and refinanced loans.
b.    Exposure limit to a single borrower: A credit cooperative's maximum exposure limit to a single
borrower is 20% of the credit cooperative's total equity or up to USD $ 2,500 equivalent, whichever is
larger.
c.    Insider lending: The total value of loans outstanding to all elected officials and the manager cannot
exceed 10% of total equity plus deposits.
d.     Collections: The percent ratio of the amount of repayment collected (principal and interest) to the
amount of total payment due (principal and interest) must exceed 90%.
Capital Adequacy
a.     Protection: The amount of loan loss provision is equal to or exceeds the sum of aged delinquent
-97-



loan balances weighted according to the following schedule:
(i)           1-3 months: 10%;
(ii)   4-6 months: 25%;
(iii)   7-9 months: 50%;
(iv)    10-12 months: 75%; and
(v)    12 months or more: 100%.
b.     Capital Reserves: A minimum of 10% of gross income is transferred to the capital reserve account
until this account equals 25% of total equity and deposits; thereafter the minimum transfer shall be the
percentage of gross income not exceeding 10% necessary to maintain the ratio of 25% of total shares.
Liquidity
Liquid assets (cash on hand and due from banks plus government securities) are greater than or
equal to 10% of equity plus deposits outstanding.
Borrowing
A credit cooperative can borrow from external sources based on its total shares. From now on any
reference to "total shares" means the sum of all member deposits and equity contributions. after the amount
of paid in shares exceeds US $5,000, membership is at least 20, and the credit cooperative has been in
operation for at least three months. The maximum limit (of amount of borrowing to total shares is 2:1. All
loans are based on quarterly accounts, as verified by ANB staff.
Eligibility criteria will be applied, as per ANB approved CAMEL standards. The first level is
applied to a credit cooperative's first two years of operation, while the next level is applied thereafter.
Appendix: Suggested ANB CAMEL Standards
(a)    Application to Loan Eligibility First level refers to the first two years of operation and second
level is applied thereafter. First level of eligibility applies for the first two years after registration and the
second (higher) level applies thereafter in order for CCs to qualify for loans.
Capital Adequacy
A.    Capital: This refers to Institutional Capital, which does not include member shares.
Equity/Assets
Equity being Reserves (including loan loss allowances) + deposit
insurance fund reserves + retained earnings + donated capital)
1 st level eligibility      > or = 7%
2nd level eligibility       > or= 10%
B.    Reserves to loans:    reserves/loans outstanding
Reserves being Capital reserves + bad debt allowances.
1st level eligibility       > or = 8%
2nd level eligibility       > or = 10%
-98-



C.    Delinqueno to:      Delinquency/Reserves
Reserves            Delinquency being loans overdue by 1 month
1 st level eligibility     < or = 80%
2nd level eligibility      < or = 60%
D.    Solvency:            Share savings + Capital - Delinquent Loans/Total Shares
1st and 2nd level eligibility  > or = 100%
Asset Quality
E.    Delinquency:         Delinquent Loans/Loans Outstanding
1 st level eligibility     < or = 5%
2nd level eligibility      < or = 2%
F.    Fixed Assets:        Fixed Assets/Total Assets
1 st level eligibility     < or = 6%
2nd level eligibility      < or = 4%
G.    Investment:   Earnings Assets/Funds Bearing Cost
These are any funds on which either interest or dividends must be paid.
1 st and 2nd level eligibility > or = 100%
H.    Net Loans Written Off: Loans written off- Recoveries/Previous year's total loans
1Ist level eligibility  < or = 5%
2nd level eligibility    < or = 3%
Management
I.    Accounts balanced and Current (10 days after the close of the month).
J.    Loan delinquency reports complete and Current (10 days after the close of the month).
K.    ANB supervisory examination completed and recommendations implemented.
L.    Annual budget prepared and performance evaluated monthly.
M.    Key ratios calculated and evaluated monthly.
N.    Written policies approved and implemented
1 st level eligibility - credit policy
2nd level eligibility - savings policy
-99-



0.    Written internal control guidelines approved and implemented.
Earnings
P.    Operating Cost: Operating Income/Total Expenses
1st level eligibility  > or = 50%
2nd level eligibility    > or = 100%
Q.    Return on Assets: Total Operating Income/Total Gross Assets
1st and 2nd level eligibility > or = 30%
R.    Net Spread: Net Operating Surplus/Average Total Assets
1st level eligibility  > or = (-30%)
2nd level eligibility    > or = 2%
Liquidity
S.    Loans to Savings: Loans Outstanding/Savings + Borrowings
1st level eligibility  > or = 80%
2nd level eligibility    > or = 90%
Liquid Reserve: Cash + Investments/Total Shares + Borrowings
1 st level eligibility  <or = 10%
2nd level eligibility    < or = 5%
T.    Leverage: Member Shares/Share Savings + Borrowings
1 st level eligibility  < or = 25%
2nd level eligibility    <or =  10%
-100-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Azerbaijan Agricultural Development and Credit Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Activities
1.    Monitoring and Evaluation Process
The Azerbaijan Agricultural Development and Credit Project is designed to be an Adaptable
Lending Program, which will span 10 years in its implementation and will require the achievement of
pre-determined benchmarks (triggers) for succession into future phases. It is, therefore, crucial to build
into the project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) mechanisms to shape the implementation of the
subsequent components of the project as well as to ensure their sustainability. It is also important to
incorporate findings of M&E into the project implementation. To achieve maximum effectiveness and to
provide continuous, timely and adequate feedback into the project implementation, M&E process will
measure development effectiveness of the project against a set of input, process, output and impact
indicators. The social assessment indicates that a crucial determinant of household income levels and
poverty is the proximity of regions to Baku and other regional characteristics. Therefore, the monitoring
and evaluation process will track the indicators with a regional focus and by age and gender of the
beneficiaries.
1.1    Land Registration Component
The input indicators for the Component should include the indicators of physical inputs and
technical assistance provided to land registration offices. They should also involve data on the financing of
these inputs through the Project funds and keep track of:
*   Financing, procurement and installation of registration equipment and software in the regional land
registration offices and for the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic (AR) Unified Real Estate
Registration Pilot Project; and
?   Financing and provision of training on land surveys and installation and use of the specialized
equipment and software and for the Nakhchivan AR Unified Real Estate Registration Pilot Project
The process indicators for the Component will measure how the land registration offices
established by inputs indicated above are functioning. They will look at the costs, working processes and
efficiency of these centers and establish criteria as to how the actual process of land registration is
proceeding. These indicators will keep track of:
*   The level of completion of land parcel surveys in rural areas; and
*   The level of completion of real estate registry in Nakhchivan AR
The output indicators for the Component will measure the outputs achieved by the financing
provided to the Land Registration Component. These will include:
*   Level of cost recovery for transaction costs in registration centers;
*   Successful creation of 10 regional land registration offices;
*   Operational level of cadastral systems, establishment of procedures for updating the system and the
-101-



level of technology that is put in place;
* Wide acceptance of rural land by lenders as collateral; and
* Pilot project and plan for unification of registration system for all land and real estate categories in
Nakhchivan AR is implemented
1.2   Information and Advisory Services Component
The main inputs into the Information and Advisory Services Component of the project are
straightforward and focus on the provision of means needed to implement each of the sub-components of
the Information and Advisory Services Component. These input indicators include:
* Provision of equipment, staff and training on country-wide information campaigns;
* Establishment of relevant institutions (National Advisory Council and Regional Advisory Centers),
training and contracting of specialists and extension service providers and hiring of a general
extension service in Ganja;
* Provision of equipment, financing and training provided to private veterinarian services; and
* Establishment of the Competitive Grants System
The process indicators for the Information and Advisory Services component will focus on the
products delivered and characteristics of the audience reached. Research indicators also focus on products
and participants. These indicators include:
e Type of mass media produced and diffused (number of publications, study tours, media
appearances for dissemination of findings etc.);
* Number of locally recruited specialists contracted on a part-time basis;
* Types and number of farmer groups contacted, trained (water user associations, credit groups,
women's groups, small farm association workers etc.) and included in demonstrations;
i Number of veterinary groups established;
i Number and size of research grants, commodities concerned and type of research or extension and
staff mobilized; and
3  Number of farmers and scientists participating in on-farm experimentation through competitive
grants mechanism and RACs
There is a large overlap between the output indicators and impact indicators for the Information
and Advisory Services component. Both indicators focus on farmer opinions, changes in knowledge and
practices and results of information provision services. The following provides a list of output indicators
which can be tracked during implementation (the rest can be found under impact indicators):
* Private sector involvement in the component (partnerships) as consultants;
* Share of livestock covered under veterinary services and number of people with access to
veterinary services;
* Number of field tests and demos completed and the number of farmers benefiting from those; and
* Dissemination of demonstrable, documented success stories on group activities to farmers
1.3    Rural Finance Conmponent
The input indicators for this Component will, at the beginning, include the establishment of the
necessary rules and regulations for the successful initiation of rural finance activities. Other input
indicators should involve data on how much financing is provided to the newly-established rural finance
-102-



activities, the training of NGOs and local people who will provide the initial training for the establishment
of these activities in rural areas, and other issues pertaining to the setup of the component:
* Strengthening of the legal base for lending: These arrangements will include the creation of
disbursement criteria for government on-lending which simultaneously (i) create sufficiently tight
prudential conditions for the release of funds, (ii) satisfy the Government as lender, and (iii) are
compatible with the development of rapid, minimum-delay release mechanisms for lending to credit
unions; and
*   Provision of training, equipment and supplies for staff and potential clients by the contractor
The process indicators for the Component should include indicators to keep track of institutional
achievements and failures of the Component as well as indicators to measure the financial vulnerability of
the credit cooperatives. Therefore, the process indicators will include:
*   Establishment of management systems (MIS, accounting, credit and financial) in credit cooperatives;
*   Compliance with appropriate financial no.ms as indicated by basic internal financial reports and ratios
(these may include, but not be limited to average loan size and loan balance per client, delinquency rate
(portfolio at risk basis, >30 days late), commercial liabilities analysis, interest rate analysis, income
statement and balance sheet analysis, total outstanding loan balance, total periodical disbursements,
equity capital base of the union, terms of credit). These will also include profitability indicators such
as return on assets, return on equity, calculation of profit margins;
*   Operational efficiency indicators such as marginal costs per credit union (total hub cost / # of credit
unions) and per credit union member (total hub cost / # of credit union members), total project cost per
dollar of credit issued, personnel costs as percent of total administrative costs, and number of active
loans and outstanding portfolio per staff member, production level per dollar of agricultural credit
given; and
o   Characteristics of borrowers from credit cooperatives and borrowers' groups by region, gender, and age
The output indicators for the Component will focus mainly on two issues: the outreach of the
Component and the financial self-sustainability of the institutions created with the help of the component.
Therefore, these will include:
3   The calculation of the Subsidy Dependence Ratio to measure the extent to which the institution depends
on explicit and implicit subsidies and its self-sustainability;
3   Management self-sustainability as indicated by spread of share-ownership, participation in the financial
system by the rural population and grassroots institution-building; and
*   Credit outreach to the target population as indicated by number of applicants qualifying for and
receiving credit, participation of women in the formation and management of credit unions, number of
active clients at period-end, cumulative number of clients, and desertion/retention rates
1.4    Projec' impact indicators
The impact monitoring activities will systematically seek feedback from the main stakeholders
involved in the project: the Government, PMU, local authorities in the project raions and the final
beneficiaries of the project, the rural population. The Social Impact Monitoring (SIM) is especially
important in the context of the Project since a number of outputs are expected to induce behavioral changes
to benefit stakeholders.
The SIM activities therefore aim at gaining knowledge on the behavioral impact of the project
-103-



interventions and providing guidance for the subsequent phases of the Project. The SIM will establish a
mechanism to periodically seek feedback from the affected populations and feed this information in the
implementation of the project. The process can be defined in three broad categories:
(a)   Basic Attitude and Beneficiary Surveys. The baseline survey and periodical updates will provide
the necessary client feedback to project implementation and will flag potential problems at the
village level. These surveys will be undertaken with out-sourcing to consultants/NGOs;
(b)   Topical Social Assessments and Case Studies. Throughout the life of the project, it is possible for
new issues to emerge which have not been considered at the beginning. The context of the topical
SAs will be determined during the implementation of the project as need arises. In addition, case
studies will be conducted and disseminated on selected success stories in project areas; these should
yield quantitative and verifiable estimates of benefits already obtained and expected in the future;
and
(c)   System-wide and macro development impacts of the Project. These impacts require a longer time to
become visible to the public. It can, therefore, be recommended that preparatory activities be
carried out during the first phase of implementation to lay the foundation for study of these impacts.
The SIM will use a number of indicators to track the social impact of agricultural reform in the
project areas. The methodology of the SIM will include research into official data, household surveys and
community discussions. The results of the SIM will have a regional focus and be available by gender, age,
and type of farm owned or worked by the household (individual, extended family, association, private
company, joint stock etc.). The following are the indicators that need to be tracked by the baseline survey
and subsequent activities:
* Household income sources, expenditures, and involvement in agricultural activity;
_ Changes in the level of entrepreneurial activity, diversity and productivity of agricultural activity;
* Level of meeting demand for all agricultural land transactions in a transparent and timely manner;
* Formalization of land ownership arrangements and preservation of rights during registration and land
transactions, especially for rural women;
o Trends in land consolidation, voluntary group formation, land trade, obstacles to trade;
o Level of awareness of broad and basic subjects on agricultural reform among the rural population;
* Access to adequate and timely information on land rights and entitlements;
9 Adoption rates, rationales for adoption and non-adoption in research and extension;
* Outreach of the mass media information campaign in rural areas;
* Satisfaction with advisory services and reasons;
* Suggestions for improvements in advisory services;
*   Portion of farmers benefiting from veterinary services and their satisfaction levels;
* Access to credit through credit cooperatives/borrowers' groups for households and individuals;
* Obstacles for access to credit;
* Current uses of credit and emerging practices; and
* Barriers in input and output markets (number and quality of suppliers, access to supplies, pricing
constraints, marketing constraints, informal payments etc.)
2.    Institutional Arrangements and Participatory Evaluation of Results
2.1   Institutional Arrangements
-104-



The PMU will coordinate the M&E process. The Project's overall monitoring and evaluation
design will build on the reporting arrangements already used by the PMU and the GOA, while further
developing the technical skills they need to plan information needs, design data collection, execute studies
and surveys, analyze data, and report results in a format that is relevant to project management. The
baseline exercise for Social Impact Monitoring will ideally be undertaken in the first three months of
project effectiveness (however, this can change due to the time-sensitive nature of agricultural activity) and
will be repeated every year during the same period. Other indicaf ,rs will be monitored quarterly and will
be consolidated into bi-annual reports for IDA review.
Capacity will be strengthened within the PMU to coordinate M&E activities across various
departments and local offices of the MOA. For these purposes, the PM[J will adequately staff itself with,
in addition to the monitoring coordinator, a monitoring specialist, short and long-term consultants and will
out-source, as appropriate, specialized studies and social impact assessments. Training will be provided to
the PMU staff on basics of social impact monitoring and evaluation of emerging results.
It is important, however, not to create a separate measurement bureaucracy within the project
structure. Since the Project implementation will involve several different agencies, the main responsibility
of the Coordinator and the Specialist will be to coordinate separate monitoring activities undertaken in
those agencies and compile them under the indicators designed under the Project. The Coordinator,
however, will not become a separate repository of information.  Therefore, just as performance
measurement will be fully integrated with Project design, information generated will be integrated with the
Project's management structure.
2.2    Participatory Evaluation of Results
The results of M&E will be evaluated in a participatory manner at several levels. At the first level,
the results emerging from the monitoring effort will be discussed between the PMU and The World Bank
and feedback will be obtained. At the second level, these results will be discussed with the relevant
stakeholders such as local administrations, municipalities, credit unions, farm association representatives,
NGOs and farmers themselves in stakeholder workshops and seminars. Indeed, joint evaluation of the
results is expected to be an important step in the direction of creating local level capacity for Project
monitoring and feedback of these results into project implementation.
Equally importantly, guidance and advice from an external Panel of Experts made up of a local
group of advisors will be sought. It is suggested that the external Panel will consist of five to seven local
experts specialized in different aspects of agricultural activities and social sciences. They will be reviewing
the results emerging from the monitoring efforts and will attempt to make policy recommendations based on
these results. The MOA and the Bank will jointly decide on the composition of these panels during
implementation.
-105-



Additional
Annex No.: 13
SUMMARY SOCIAL ASSESSMENT OF THE
AZERBAIJAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT & CREDIT PROJECT
Azerbaijan faces a fundameiital challenge in its rural regions - to alleviate rural poverty and
increase rural incomes. To meet this chailenge, Azerbaijan has privatized the land and assets belonging to
former state and collective farms, and is working to reverse the declines in agricultural productivity and
output experienced during the transition to private farming. The Government has invited IDA to support a
new project on Agricultural Development and Credit to meet these challenges. This report summarizes the
findings of a comprehensive Social Assessment (SA) that began in 1998 and will continue for the duration
of the project.
Background of Agricultural Sector Conditions
Azerbaijan's agricultural sector accounts for 36 percent of total labor, 26 to 30 percent of total
GDP and 30 percent of total exports. About 46 percent of total population lives in rural areas. Half of
Azerbaijan's agricultural land (2.2 million ha of a total of 4.4 ha) is cultivated and the rest is grazed.
Azerbaijan has a highly diverse crop mix and most crop land is irrigated.
Agricultural output had fallen sharply due largely to difficulties in the transition to a more
market-based economy, combined with the problems of armed conflict with Armenia and large-scale
internal displacement of people as a result of the conflict. From 1991 through 1994 agricultural production
declined between 12 percent and 25 percent annually. In recent years the rate of decline has slowed
suggesting that the rural economy may have bottomed out though there is little sign yet that the situation is
beginning to improve. Overall, sixty percent of the country's population lives in poverty, and most of these
people reside in rural areas.
Living standards in rural Azerbaijan declined dramatically since 1988. Plots of land distributed in
the privatization process are frequently too small to support a family, requiring many rural families to
scramble for alternatives and necessitating multiple activities to generate sufficient annual incomes for
subsistence. The large number of small plots of land are also vulnerable to consolidation by a few wealthy
landholders though little evidence of this exists to date. The breakup and privatization of the state farms
often resulted in the discontinuation of social services in rural areas. Where they continue to operate, their
reach is often limited and access is curtailed significantly from past levels.  The lack of rural financial
services in rural areas has been an important cause of low levels of investment and large drops in input use.
Capital investments in irrigation systems and farm machinery have deteriorated and maintenance has been
reduced.  Also, environmental factors have contributed to the declining living standards. In particular,
lands adjacent the Caspian Sea are part of an environmental disaster -- the rise of sea level is causing poor
sanitary conditions, damaging infrastructure, salting agricultural land, and destroying fisheries. Finally,
development of large oil reserves and industry may draw resources out of the agricultural sector, thereby
depressing its development.
Against this background the Government has developed a program aimed at: (i) completing the
process of farm privatization and fostering the development of land markets; (ii) improving the information
and advisory services available to newly emerging farms and other rural businesses, and (iii) fostering the
development of rural financial services. The Government has worked with IDA to develop the Agricultural
-106-



Development and Credit Project which will be the key vehicle for implementing this program.
Stakeholders
A number of stakeholders are responsible for, and will benefit from the proposed Agricultural
Development and Credit project. These stakeholders are described below.
*   The Central Government is represented by the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Land
Committee, the State Veterinary Committee and the Agrarian Reform Commission, which is head
quartered in the Cabinet of Ministers. The Central Government has passed a number of laws
regulating land and farm property distribution, and additional laws and regulations continue to be
developed. The Central Governmnent is acutely aware of the difficulties in rural areas and is firmly
committed to the implementation of its program of rural reform.
*   Local Authorities comprise executive leaders in rural areas. These leaders are usually responsible
for distributing land as part of the privatization process. Therefore, their cooperation is crucial to
the success of agricultural reform efforts.
*   Directors of State and Collective Farms are experienced in farm management and have no doubt
influenced the privatization process to some extent. Many of these managers have tried to retain
land and other farm assets under their control. They often do this by pooling the farm assets of
their relatives and, in some cases, their neighbors, often through voluntary means.
_  Former Workers of State and Collective Farms comprise agronomists and other technical
experts involved in both cultivation and non-production activities. Privatization has benefited those
involved in cultivation because they have received land or are operating machinery on someone
elses newly-privatized land. However, those involved in non-production activities have suffered
under privatization because they lost their salaried positions and do not have the experience to
succeed in agricultural cultivation.
= Residents of Rural Areas are legally permitted to obtain land through the continuing land
privatization and distribution process. The SA identified the following vulnerable groups in rural
areas.
Smallholders who have emerged from land distribution process in rural areas. They comprise
former workers of state and collective farms as well as non-agricultural residents of rural areas
such as teachers, doctors and administrative workers. Most of them lack the know-how and
equipment to participate in agricultural production. The SA focuses on their current problems,
coping strategies and possible methods to help them during the transition.
The Elderly are important in rural Azerbaijan. They lead extended families and often are the
holders of land titles and other farm assets. Their pension income, when not delayed, contributes
significantly to overall household income.
Women suffer disproportionately from rural unemployment and lack of income. They are often the
first to lose their jobs in collective farms and production facilities. Most work in individual garden
plots and maintain households, while a few find administrative jobs locally.
Internally Displaced People (IDPs) are former residents of Nagorno-Karabakh and its
-107-



surrounding regions which are under occupation. They have been displaced from their home areas
during the aggressions between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Since then, they have been living in tent
camps, railroad wagons, public buildings and other make-shift arrangements. Their incomes are
significantly lower than other rural residents, they are heavily dependent on foreign aid and are not
entitled to receive land in their displacement regions. However, some of them work and earn
incomes on newly privatized farms.
*   Private Enterprises comprising small food processors, traders and farmers have emerged during
the transition and contribute significantly to household income. Small "informal" private activities
such as roadside marketing also adds significantly to incomes of many families. As more land is
distributed and credit and extension services become available, the private sector is likely to
expand its importance within the rural reform process.
*   The World Bank is financing the Pilot Farm Privatization Project and is working with the
Government on the Agricultural Development and Credit Project and the Irrigation Project.
Through these projects the Bank provides policy, technical assistance and financing for the rural
sector.
SA Objectives and Methodology
The purpose of the SA is to ensure that the proposed project has identified key needs of the
affected population and is supporting interventions that are high priority for the beneficiaries. It aims to do
so by identifying the project's major stakeholders and their needs and interests as well as establishing
mechanisms for stakeholder participation in project design and implementation. It is intended to help
identify the social development issues and the institutional and organizational dimensions of project
implementation, and how stakeholders, especially small holders, might participate during project
implementation. Additionally, the SA has been used to guide the design of the participatory Monitoring and
Evaluation process, which will help project management assess results and develop appropriate follow-up
measures. To achieve these objectives successfully, the SA is conceived as a continuous process.
The first phase of the SA covered the raions in which the FPP is being implemented, namely Barda,
Udjar, Lenkeran, Salyan and Khachmaz. It focused on a number of specific issues, including: (1) main
sources of livelihood; (2) decision-making within households; (3) social dimensions of the privatization
process, including constraints, results and opportunities for the most vulnerable groups; (4) mechanisms for
controlling access to agricultural assets; (5) awareness of and perceived need for agricultural restructuring,
(6) experience with, and attitudes toward credit; (7) experience and potential with entrepreneurship and
marketing; (8) perceived information and training needs; (9) attitudes toward institutions and change; and,
(10) ratings of infrastructure and community service needs.
The first phase comprised five elements, including: (1) surveys of households and women following
a qualitative rapid assessment by a small team of local consultants; (2) semi-structured interviews of
individuals; (3) in-situ observation by Bank staff; (4) discussions with focus group participants; and (5) a
seminar involving all the stakeholders. The household survey involved interviews with 900 randomly
selected households in Pilot Project raions during January/February, 1998. In addition, a survey of 210
women in three of these six raions were conducted to obtain information on the general impact of reforms
on women and the constraints they face. Semi-structured interviews included in-depth interviews with
farmers, farm managers, unemployed workers, community leaders, women's groups, local associations,
technicians and government officials. A member of the Social Development Team for the ECA region lived
-108-



with a farming family in the Khachmaz rayon to conduct an in-situ observation of the impact of farm
privatization. In November/December, 1997 five focus groups comprising relatively homogeneous groups
of stakeholders (farm managers, women and unemployed workers) were conducted to examine inter-group
dynamics, common problems and opportunities and ways to gain the confidence and commitment of
stakeholders. A stakeholder seminar on the preliminary results of the SA included representatives from
central and local governments, local social scientists, women's organizations and donors.
The second phase of the SA continued to guide the pre-appraisal stage of the project preparation.
This phase built on the results and issues identified during the first phase and enlarged the geographical
scope of the SA to 15 additional regions not covered by the first phase. Its methodology included focus
group discussions, in-depth interviews and preparation of case studies. The issues explored included use of
household plots, voluntary group formation, rural decision-making mechanisms, marketing constraints and
the role of women.
The key social development concerns in rural regions focus on social inclusion. It is important to
have appropriate mechanisms in place to ensure: (a) people are better informed of legal and procedural
changes and have access to know-how and skills required to make a transition from a wage based rural
economy of large state farms to one in which peasantry and voluntary associations will have a larger role;
and (b) male and female farmers receive equitable access to farm inputs, technology and marketing
facilities. This involves an understanding of current problems and constraints farmers face and the
institutional mechanisms that need to be modified to enhance reform benefits to rural people. The success
of rural reform efforts depend, to a large extent, on increasing the participation of rural stakeholders in
developing the economy and providing them with incentives and opportunities to stay in rural areas.
Another important concern is the internally displaced populations (IDPs) dispersed throughout
the country. IDPs constitute a large percentage of the population of Azerbaijan. Although the proposed
project will not specifically deal with the needs of IDPs, the capacity created within the agricultural sector
will no doubt be of direct support to those who are being re-integrated in liberated areas. As land
registration systems and advisory and credit services become more widely available, returning IDPs will
also benefit.
Key institutional structures in rural regions are developing at three levels. At the lowest level,
families have provided the social safety net, cushioning the pains of individuals as they transition from
wage-earners to farmers. At the community level, voluntary associations of farmers, such as joint farms,
have emerged to facilitate reform by helping individuals leverage their resources. At the regional and
national levels, credit unions, irrigation associations, extension services and land titling/registration systems
are developing and are expected to anchor the rural reforms. Nonetheless, large-scale dissolution of the
formerly existing organizational links in rural areas have greatly hampered the agricultural production and
marketing. Success of agricultural reforms, to a large extent, depend on the ability of farmer/producers to
sell their products in an efficient manner and at adequately wide margins to pay for operational costs and to
provide profits conducive to further production. Private input suppliers and crop and livestock traders are
beginning to emerge to fill the void left by the dissolution of the state marketing enterprises. The proposed
project, through the information and advisory services, and through the credit component intends to assist
in the development of these key rural entrepreneurs.
Rural Poverty
Both available quantitative data and qualitative observations indicate that over the past several
-1 09-



years incomes have improved and poverty has declined in some rural areas. In 1995, 58 percent of incomes
was devoted to food (Azerbaijan Survey of Living Conditions, 1995), decreasing to 40 percent in 1998
(Social Assessment Household Survey, 1998). The methodologies for these two surveys differed,
precluding statistically significant comparisons.  However, the data strongly corroborate qualitative
assessments by Bank staff. Further, most households have accumulated a wide range of property such as
refrigerators, radios, televisions, stereos, sewing machines and jewelry. Finally, many households have
kept their privatization vouchers which were distributed to all Azeri citizens as part of the Government's
enterprise privatization program and which act as a key component of savings and investment capital.
Figure I illustrates the importance of the privatization vouchers in rural Azerbaijan.
Figure 1
Voucher Ownership and Values
Udjar
Salyan -
Khachmaz
Barda
Lenkeran        __..._........_
0     20    40    60    80    100
percent of households who have vouchers
Source Household Survey, 1998.
Agricultural production is the key determinant of rural incomes and poverty - where agriculture
improves income improves; where it stagnates, incomes stagnate. Figure 2 illustrates the sources of income
, Only 14 percent of families do not receive income from agriculture and most of these are pensioners.
Increasing agricultural production and incomes will improve the lives of most of the rural population. It is
also evident that a peasant economy, with multiple income sources and activities, has emerged in rural
Azerbaijan, as opposed to a wage-based economic structure.
Figure 2
Household Reliance on Multiple Income Sources
fanbly has         4   ~~per fsmily 
have inome/I\
Even thouh rl hav incomes a    r                          of familie t
I   on-arclyturo      ? Nf fa ilA     have income 
no-grc             hvinoe              m mulipl
ensiopnsots 
H-rc &lss.old S-rv,, 199K.-
Even though rural incomes appear to have improved somewhat, more than half of the rural
population still lives under the poverty line. Rural poverty is highly region-specific. For instance, regions
-110-



adjacent to Baku, Russia and Iran tend to produce more and earn more income than interior regions. In
addition to this regional specificity, there are common traits that poor families share. Poor rural families
are larger than non-poor families (household size is 5.68 for poor families as opposed to 4.79 for the
non-poor). Those who lack access to irrigation are also likely to be poor. While 56 percent of the families
with access to irrigation were poor, a significantly higher 75 percent of those without irrigation system
were under the poverty line. Families living or working in large farm associations generate more income
per capita than members of smaller farm associations, while single family farms usually earn the least.
Women have been hurt disproportionately during the transition to privatized agricultural production and
are at a disadvantage in terms of their access to income generating opportunities. Moreover, they are most
likely the first to be laid off from their wage-earning jobs. Older Azeris tend to stay in the rural areas
where they use their experience and knowledge to manage farms and associations, while the rural youth
may often look for work in Baku or Russian cities. This migration of youth out of rural areas is draining
the agricultural sector of its work force and contributing to population pressure in Baku.
Farmers identify six key things to which they need better access in order to improve agricultural
production and have a direct impact on poverty reduction in rural areas, including: (1) land and farming
equipment; (2) agricultural inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, feed.; (3) financing for inputs and land
preparation; (4) technical and general public information; (5) markets and market information; and (6)
rural infrastructure.
Over time, the level of access to each of these factors has changed. Initially, access to land and
farming equipment was major factors influencing the level of rural incomes. These conditions changed
with the distribution of agricultural land in the 1997-98 period. During this period, inputs such as seed,
feed, and fertilizers were also not widely available. However, by 1998, the availability of these inputs
become a secondary concern as their supply became more available but then farmers could not obtain
financing to purchase them.
Lack of access to markets in many cases still impedes the sale of farm produce and limits income
earning opportunities. Poor transportation facilities and high transportation costs limit the marketing of
agricultural products. Many farmers now sell their produce along roads near their farms. There they
receive exposure to only a few buyers and they often must make informal payments to local police and
other authorities. Additionally, this dispersed form of marketing inhibits the broad dissemination of
information - on prices, inputs, credit, and other resources -- that could help farmers increase production
and efficiency. The project's focus on improved information, including market information is intended help
address this issue.
A solely technical definition of the factors influencing poverty is not adequate to account for the
human behavior which defines responses to existing constraints and helps to devise coping methods. The
existing social capital in rural areas (mainly, the efforts to work together toward common goals and support
each other in times of hardship) is providing a cushioning mechanism for the population during the
transition period and continues to do so as more people engage in agricultural activity in association with
the people that they know and trust.
The types of production associations households belong to largely affect their income levels.
Individual smallholders find it difficult to engage in agricultural production by themselves due to lack of
economies of scale and efficiency. It is likely that many of these single family farms will need to join forces
with their neighbors if they are to generate agricultural income. Farming associations formed this way have
greater scale economies and benefit from the knowledge and skills of former state farm workers. Despite
ongoing production and financing problems, they usually enjoy more income and less poverty than single
-111-



family farms. Increased access to credit and extension facilities, reinforced with improved access to land,
equipment, and inputs will contribute largely to their income-generation capability. Large farming
associations have the greatest scale economies and income generation potential for their managers.
However, they tend to dominate entire villages, inhibiting the development of smaller farming associations
and family farms. In cases where such associations inhibit income generation by other farms or its own
members, implementation of sound land and equipment distribution and registration systems will be
important to alleviate poverty.
Land Distribution and Registration
Physical land distribution is largely completed and the process is regarded by the local population
in most regions as transparent and fair though charges of wrongdoing exist in some locales, particularly
where privatization is not yet complete. These charges appear to increase directly with the length of time
taken to implement the reform.  The land distribution process has the following general steps (specific
steps may vary by region):
* Surveys of the area to be distributed using maps and " walk-throughs";
* Classification the surveyed land as fertile, non-fertile, municipal or state lands;
* Determination of the number of people entitled to receive land and the average size of land plot per
person;
*   Participants in the land lottery notify the land commission of their participation either as
individuals or as part of a group; representatives for each group are selected by members of that
group;
*   Lotteries are conducted to determine which groups and/or individuals are assigned to various land
areas;
* A second lottery is conducted among individuals in each group to determine the size of land plots
each member will receive; and
* A land certificate for each plot is prepared by the State Land Committee.
In areas where the land distribution moved quickly, livelihood has largely improved. Where the
process has moved more slowly, problems have emerged. Land distribution also has had the effect of
curtailing the influence of ex-farm managers and has given the rural population the chance to engage in
income generating activities. On the negative side, it adversely impacted the non-technical workers and
population which did not have the know-how to engage in farming. The liquidation of state farms caused
these people to lose their wage-based employment while providing them with little chance to engage in
agriculture, at least in the short term. The Project therefore intends to support the development of a land
markets to encourage further investment in the private sector and to promote private employment in
small-scale rural enterprises while providing  information, finance,   and technical support to
non-agricultural part of the population. Moreover, all land holders, especially rural women, require
information on the importance of land registration and their rights as land holders. Where land registration
procedures are not well defined, they can impede land trading and increasing ownership insecurity.
Therefore, the project is appropriately focusing on procedures for improving the land registration system.
Lack ofAccess to Financing
There is high demand for agricultural financial services in rural Azerbaijan, provided that these
services are affordable to emerging small holders and farmers. Fifty percent to 98 percent of farmers,
depending on the region, want to borrow money to improve their farms, and almost all of them are willing
to use land and equipment to collateralize their borrowing if favorable conditions exist. However, many of
-112-



these people cannot get access to adequate financing (figure 3). Only two percent of respondents reported
obtaining formal credit in 1998. Small-scale informal borrowing, on the other hand, was more common
place, although the availability of funds from friends and relatives is limited. At the start of the reforms,
the most important production constraint was access to good quality agricultural inputs. However, as
reforms have progressed, access to inputs increased while financing to facilitate this access has became a
crucial factor (Box 1).
Figure 3
Access to Credit and Independent Borrowing
Suc : Hoseol Suv . and Fou Gru  Dcssos 199
w O              nly2.5;$reew oft_ gt e4    t p          rand o perlent wand t igte r1en f      w ane
erthe families obtaind  t        borrowedmon he     money oS    e           pyfo lan prertion
o a:credit frodn orcial         from relatives and          o w d  take t hchao on "in
sources iast year    v              friends                thenupoeingyear
Lack o transpert and    of    .                                              c
hmarkets, irrigationn    a a owaver, bighe stnteoesw t   wi    .     
problemsg inadequate   ructurates   unpredntability st pr gor extending tsheir land U
faarmequipment ander gin i    ofrcashturin  andworries o i    establishing fanrd and
rm inputs forther br      about repayment prevent i     purihasing equiehnaf
constraints   inormal c    tm is  frorn applyingl a u     a   is o
,<   productivity    >~~~   for creclits
Soum": Hosehold Surey ld Focits Gwop D alsco bo, 199l.
The inadequacy of formal financial services in rural areas is systemic; virtually no private banks
have branches in rural areas and the state own bank which formally provided rural credit, Agroprom, is
undergoing major restructuring and currently is not providing lending services. Urban-based commercial
banks are undergoing astcterang and consolidation at this time and  are unable and unwilling  to move
aggressively into rural areas.
Informal borrowing does take place but is inadequate to meet the financing needs of the emerging
farmer. Most informnal credit is for small amounts and is often from relatives to meet extraordinary cash
requirements. No interest is charged; rather, the loans are given under reciprocal arrangements. There are
some rural inhabitants who also borrow from informal lenders. People have reported borrowing 10,000
manats at the beginning of the month and paying back 12,500 manats at the end of the month, bringing
monthly interest to 25 percent. It is important, however, to stress that these high rates are dependent on the
small amount of the money lent and that such loans are rare.
Other obstacles to credit also exist. In the absence of established real estate markets, the use of
land and buildings as collateral is still not comrnon.  Moreover, when loans are available they often have
terms of only a few months. In general, rural households are hesitant to borrow when the maturity of the
-113-



loan is less then the duration of the crop cycle or, for livestock, the period required for the animal to reach
maturity. Also, for some loan programs, prospective borrowers often must complete cumbersome and
time-consuming loan applications without adequate instruction. Finally, many farmers are reluctant to
borrow without improvements in inputs, transport and marketing facilities.
The project has been designed to address many of these concerns. Credit Cooperatives and the
borrowers' groups are local, community-based organizations. Their knowledge of the local community, the
social cohesion of their members, and the use of joint and several liability all serve to reduce the
importance of collateral. At the same time, the improvements in land registration services and emergence of
land markets will enhance the attractiveness of land as collateral.  These intermediaries will also use
simplified lending procedures to reduce the transactions costs associated with rural lending and will
carefully screen borrowers to limit problem loans. These steps to reduce transactions costs will be reflected
in the on-lending rate to borrowers. Most loans will be short-term for working capital requirements but the
repayment period will conform with the appropriate crop or business cycle. The project also recognizes the
importance of the availability of marketing and input supply services for the success of the credit
component. The access to credit by a wide range of rural enterprises including input suppliers and traders
should help to ease these constraints, as will the availability of information and advisory services that are
tailored to their needs as well.
Extension & Communications
Inadequate access to timely and reliable information in rural areas is a major problem for the
population's equitable inclusion in rural reforms and their adaptation to a living style where household
income is derived from household business as opposed to wage income. There are two main levels of
information gaps in rural Azerbaijan. First, the general public needs reliable information about general
rural policies, regulations and current events. Second, people working on farms and related operations
need specific and focused technical training to manage their work properly.
Sources of general information are diverse (figure 4). Rural residents gain information through
district and national newspapers, radio and television programs, village and farm cooperative meetings and
visits by government leaders. But the information flowing through these channels is often limited, outdated
and sometimes inaccurate. Rural residents believe only official sources. However, meetings often fail to
clarify issues, access to newspapers is limited, the language used in some publications is incomprehensible
to many of the less educated poor, and electricity shortages limit the usefulness of television and radio for
information dissemination. As a result, people have difficulties in being able to understand broader
benefits of the reform program.
-114-



Figure 4
100     Information Sources
80 
70 70
24 50
O40-
'~30
t 20
10
KQ X     A t          -S t  
'2'   > mD
Q_ E E    0 
Source: Household Survey, 1998.
During the Soviet period, wage-earners working in state and collective farms required knowledge
very specific to their jobs. However, former wage-earners who are now farmers require knowledge of a
whole range of functions and skills to ensure proper management of an entire farm. Most of them do not
have the knowledge base to independently engage in a wide range of agricultural activities. In addition,
those who were formerly involved in non-agricultural activities such as accounting and machinery
operations, are not knowledgeable on agricultural production.
Current extension needs of the small holders, therefore, are quite different than previous extension
needs. Each farmer engaging in production needs information on crop cycles, basic crop budget
preparation, farm management techniques and marketing opportunities. Therefore, a targeted extension
system focusing on these specific needs is necessary to facilitate most small holders' transition from a
wage-based to a more smallholder existence. They also need information on their legal rights and
responsibilities to make well-informed decisions regarding their small holdings, equipment and livestock.
Early efforts to meet extension needs of emerging farmers under the FPP have been well-received.
Extension organizations have been established in the Pilot Farm Project areas and they provide training in
land preparation, crop cycles, planting mixes, breeding, livestock raising, irrigation practices, and
marketing. Feedback from farmers has been favorable where this training has been conducted. The new
project will build on this experience and is geared to providing training and information aimed at both the
general and more specific information needs of rural inhabitants. Local participation in the design of
training and extension programs will enhance their relevance.
Access to Agricultural Inputs
Disrupted access to agricultural inputs has largely contributed to the drastic drop in agricultural
output in rural Azerbaijan. Farmers have limited access to seeds, feed, fertilizer, equipment, fuel and
agricultural services such as plowing, sowing, and harvesting. During the Soviet Period, the state was the
dominant supplier of most of these inputs. During the past years, inaccessibility to inputs has been one of
the major causes of declining agricultural output and productivity. However, during the past year as new
farmers gained experience, the ability to pay for them has become the main problem (Box 2).
-115-



Box 2
I... am the head of afarming group which has 14famifies and 40 ha of agriczdtural land Most qf us are famiiy and oldfriends.
We have 12 ha ofgarden plots next to our houses. But life is not easyfor us... We don't have our tand certif cafes yet. we cannot
get any credit forseed andpesticides and we cannot pay cash; fuel is also very expensie... Sometimes we borrow equipment to
work on orw lan  but even the, it is a bigproblem topayfor fuel andlubricants. Lastyear we triedsellingfruits in the rayon
market, but people warnto buycheaper imports so we did not even harvest ourfruits thisyear. Myson in Russia sometimes sends
money. and thanks to him, we can stilt survive here.."
Source: In-depth interview with farmer, Devechi Rayon, October 1998.
Inadequate access to inputs has two aspects. The first aspect concerns the availability of
machinery and equipment for land preparation; most farm machinery and equipment have not yet been
privatized and distributed. Several interests are claiming the equipment, which in most cases is still
controlled by former state farms. Many former state farms are indebted to the Azerbaijan State
Agricultural Bank (Agroprom) and the equipment is pledged against outstanding debt. In addition, former
employees of some state farms have not been paid for significant periods of time and they have claims on
the equipment to guarantee back-payments.  The claims from  these two constituencies complicate
Government efforts to implement the equipment distribution. In the meantime, a significant portion of the
available equipment has deteriorated and become non-usable.
The second aspect of the inputs problem relates to the availability of good quality seeds, feed and
fertilizers.  At the initial stage of rural reform  efforts, gaining access to these inputs was indeed
problematic. However, as time progressed and land was distributed to more people, households started to
learn how to obtain necessary inputs. In addition, cotton ginneries in some rural areas provide these inputs
on credit to farmers. As a result, recently, inputs problem has become one of lack of financing to purchase
them. There is also some confusion among rural households as to how to select the best inputs, and the
provision of information on input selection is becoming increasingly important.
Access to Rural Infrastructure and Social Services
Inadequacy of electricity is an important problem in rural areas, disrupting livelihoods and
information access of the population. Most households have electricity for only a few hours a day (figure
5). Other rural infrastructure, such as water and transport, is also in bad shape. Deteriorating equipment,
in some cases, prevents supply such as in irrigation and drinking water services. Adequate transport
facilities do not exist between raions contributing to marketing problems.
-116-



Figure 5
Dissatisfaction with Electricity Supply
Udjar
Salyan
Khachmaz                             I
Barda    -     __ f
Lenkeran
0     20     40    60    80    100
percent of households dissatisfied with electridty supply
Source: Household Survey, 1998.
Currently, most social services such as health care, education, and kindergartens do not function
properly in rural Azerbaijan; people usually make under-the-counter payments to receive these services.
The deteriorated state of social services imposes difficulties especially on women and the elderly. Lack of
kindergartens increase the workload of women at home; their child care responsibilities distract them from
engaging in potentially more income generating activities. The household survey found that about half of
the interviewed households have kindergartens and health centers in their villages, but the majority of
residents see the need for improvements in their services.
Most rural infrastructure problems are outside of the scope of the Agricultural Development and
Credit Project. Nonetheless, they are important factors contributing to the potential impacts of the Project.
Separately planned World Bank-supported investments in irrigation rehabilitation, both at the farm and
inter-farm level will address shortcomings of irrigation in a number of rural areas. Moreover, a rural
infrastructure project to address other rural infrastructural requirements is included in the lending program.
Marketing Bottlenecks
Poor access to marketplaces, insufficient and expensive transport, lack of storage facilities, low
market prices, poor credit availability, and lack of proper information hinder the marketing of many rural
products. Farm outputs are no longer marketed through the state farms but by individual farmers. Most
households have access to local markets, but many of these markets do not function well. Most markets
are along roads, where informal payments disrupt trade. Access to larger markets that function better is
blocked by the high cost of transporting produce and other barriers to entry into these markets. Table I
illustrates how informal payments on the road, coupled with higher transport costs, make it difficult for
small holders in Quasar raion in the Northwest part of the country to independently market their products.
The Government has recently become more aware of these problems with informal payments and has
launched a major initiative to address them in the context of its broader public sector reform program.
-117-



Table 1
Items                            Small farmer (personal car,     Trader (truck, can take 2 tons
can take 500 kg of produce)     of produce)
Sales price of 1 kg. of apple in  250 manats                     250 manats
Quasar
Transport per kg.                1000 manats                     350 manats
Roadside payments per kg.        250 manats                      250 manats
Total cost                       1,500 manats                    850 manats
Figure 6 illustrates that the severity of marketing bottlenecks varies from region to region. For
instance, in Lenkeran, residents mostly complain about inadequacy of transport in marketing their products
while in Salyan the lack of proper marketplaces is the most important constraint. Small holders' marketing
problems partially relate to the lack of information and contacts in larger markets. In addition, lack of
financing for small holders prevent them from transporting their produce to larger markets at affordable
prices, effectively reducing potential income levels. Producers also complain about better quality and
packaged imports with which they cannot compete with their current production. While the project does
not have a specific marketing component, the information and advisory component and the credit
component are designed to address problems with market information and finance and should serve to
enhance market competition.
Figure 6
Marketing Bottlenecks
Better transport
3 Sayan
Trade co-ops _
0 Lenkeran
Favorable prices
Proper distribution
channels
Marketplaces in
villages
a 10     20    30    40    50     rao
percent of households
source-Huc h 50 U  Yc~ y 19V8
Gender Issues
Most women favor the privatization process, although most feel its adverse affects more than men.
Before privatization, women participated in most sectors of the economy. During the transition, many had
to move from farming, education and medicine to housekeeping (figure 7 and Box 3). Forty-two percent of
women surveyed say the division of work in their families did not change, while 40 percent see positive
changes. Where privatization has been complete, women's family relations tended to improve. Where
-118-



reform has lagged, family relations have deteriorated as more burdens were put on women.
Figure 7
Female employment Patterns Before and After
Privatization
100 ,   ___________________
LI Cotton growing
8  Professional positions
C  Pensioners
7 '          Housewives
D i 60 -    |  Sg Collective/state farm workers
y L D  50   1,1
Before  After          Before  After
Barda                  Salyan
S,U, It,....hold S..,vey. 199 Gnr o,d,,ay 199S
Several factors potentially constrain women's equitable participation in rural reform. For instance,
traditions of a male-dominated society lead to marriage at a young age. In large families, women work
predominantly in the house and have limited opportunities to develop professional skills. Poor rural
infrastructure, lack of services and educational facilities burden women inordinately as they manage homes,
work in garden plots and market produce in roadside markets. Additionally, when women register for land
they may do so as part of a household rather than as an individual. This practice puts additional limits on
their opportunity and flexibility and if care is not given during registration, there is danger that women's
right to land would be diluted.
I usedtowrkido ilkator ntow  eoe.t coedd,  N                 aeto  ok at the gare in my<0 hos to e
. it
.Ssomties sn, mmbtiisnteouh  oe 'mes' graze anials r::XCS weathe pep'        a; e ad          o' nwwa
Women also appear to have far less access than men to farm equipment and other assets through
although precise information about this is not available. The criteria of property share attribution
discriminate implicitly against women. These shares are calculated according to workers' length of service
and wage levels. Since women retire five years earlier than men and their average wages are lower than
men's, the value of their shares is consequently lower. The fact that women in the rural sector left state
farms earlier caused gender gap in unemployment to increase; this also affected women's access to property
shares.
Historically, women have played an important role in livestock management, both within state
farms and in home-based agriculture. Restructuring within the livestock sector has had mixed impacts on
women. Because women outnumbered men in the sector, the restructuring and privatization of livestock
farms meant large losses of female employment. However, families expanded their private ownership of
-119-



livestock when they were distributed as an aspect of restructuring. Women continued to be the principal
managers of livestock and, perhaps more than before, are able to generate cash by selling their products in
nearby markets.
The project recognizes the importance of focusing on the specific problems of women in rural areas
and has taken precautions to ensure that they receive equitable access to the services of the Project. For
instance, the design of the registration system will take into account the need to recognize the rights of
women household members. Moreover, the credit cooperatives and more importantly the borrowers' groups
that are established will focus much of their lending on the types of small scale activities undertaken by
women and the advisory services will also target the technical needs of women such as marketing the
products of small-scale activities and business management training. Finally the project's focus on
veterinary services and animal disease control will directly benefit women livestock owners.
Emerging Farm Enterprises
Several models of farming have evolved during the privatization and land distribution process.
Some reflect the values of the post-Soviet era while others maintain the values of the Soviet period. Some
directly promote positive economic development while others may obstruct it. Three primary models
dominate the new economic order in rural Azerbaijan, and are characterized below. Differences exist in the
working order of these associations, as illustrated in Box 4.
*   Family Farms comprise a single family that owns its land (usually about two to four hectares) and
usually has significant knowledge about agriculture. Such families often worked in the kolkhoz
during the Soviet period but do not want to work collectively in the new era, preferring to operate
independently and to avoid what they see as bureaucratic entanglements and complicated
relationships with family, friends and neighbors.
Some families were not farmers during the Soviet period, but received agricultural land through the
land distribution program and decided to farm it. The experience of the post-land distribution
years so far indicates that most family farms cannot support all the family's needs, so members
may earn income through other activities and/or depend significantly on their pensions.
*   Small Farming Associations usually comprise relatives and neighbors that govern themselves
democratically. Associations can number from 10 to 400 persons and farm between five and 400
hectares of land. Practices differ from Association to Association, but each family receives by
written or verbal contract equity shares in the Association equal to the market value of the assets it
contributes to it. Family assets usually comprise land, buildings, farm equipment and the number
of family members committed to the association full-time. Existing members decide democratically
whether to admit new applicants. Members can leave the Association voluntarily. Members
appoint a leader and an executive committee which run the day-to-day business affairs of the
Association. However, all important production and administrative matters are usually discussed
by the general assembly, often including the type and amount of production and the division of
proceeds from the harvested products. An exception is the strictly family-based groups, in which
older persons or most knowledgeable members may make these decisions themselves. Association
members usually receive most of their income through agricultural activity. There is a tendency in
rural areas to concentrate small land holding in voluntary small production associations which
provide the flexibility-to engage in agriculture as individuals deem fit while pooling resources for
common activities such as land preparation and harvesting.
-120-



* Large Farming Associations are usually modeled after the former kolkhoz and often number 500
or more people. There are only a few of these associations in existence. The few large farming
associations that exist usually have been started by former directors of state farms and, therefore,
are powerful. Members may work on their own land as salaried employees of the association, but
the association leader usually dominates decision-making, deciding what to plant, how much to
plant, and how to distribute the earnings. Leaders do not meet frequently with association
members on these issues. These associations often control more than 80 percent of a village's land
and, therefore, may exert inordinate power over those who do not wish to join. Some large farm
associations have obstructed the establishment of smaller farming associations by their neighbors
to maximize their influence in a village. Many villagers do not have the expertise to farm and,
therefore, join the large farming associations by necessity.
Staff Appraisal Report. Azerbaijan Republic. Farm Privaation Project. The World Bank. 1996.
The rise of "Dutch Disease" may be substantial because the terms of trade in an energy exporting country
may not encourage domestic agricultural production.
wOther laws include the Land Code of Azerbaijan (1 99d1), Reforms of Kolkhozes and Sovkhozes (February,
1995), Bill on Improvement of Irrigation (October, 1996), Rules of Allocating Land Plots October, 1996
Improving theIn She a Ure f aline Land (October, 1996) and Definition and Use of Pastures (October
1996).
-121 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Financial Management
THE WOLD BANKIFCM..GA
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DAE:  Apil 8, 1999
m    Van Ry Soy tworh Ta  taT  ader, BCSSD'                        .
FROM:    K s         g         p         a        *pea t, AFMI1
EXrTENSO:  34315
sucr:  Aerbua*ws Pr'seed Axk*jurl Ddpe                     Credit project
Aaau.mmt of Project for      ad Dlbursat
I have reviewed the fisacil    g  t      rlw to thig pret. The
bjective athreview Wasto  tmin whp. p c     i  le sn adequate
fnncial manamt sysmn M requied by th Bn  /I  A unde OP/BP 10.02
My rview, which includedvi   the     ct i m          a        bsd
an te Bn's guidelins Cr " weview of       miwalgmi tyt   " Wu  d on
the msagnuit ogf the pn$ect'ls.aoe0ntin sysau,Itena  coumi  pln img,l dudigk
and fcisl m gm e    oSYSN,  lection of at  as we as the frm  nu caitat
Otfo Project Management ROPt (lAL) to be dmit  by t:bowcr owe io    of
Wztxhtwal Appiloation     '
I confirm that the ppaJoct satisfies teBmnp mniCmulm fINanIVA4An
~de _hst                                            ,S .iml Simabl
iuqamwnah. However, iatyuiypinion. the pn~a    loot hare in place an adea
PMojt 0lyta  tiht can wprolreasoabe amsrfee,
accurate and tl      ai      O  the tt of   pojct (fIR) as requited by the
Bank'/ ID A for Pfr h
I tave de,tailed misau  rqon, dated  Arc 28,1999, th,e indequacies that I
found in lhe sYCIem  Wgeteww    agneed actonilanl by the bowr  to redy the
-122-



Annex No.: 15
Letter of Development Policy
AZaRBAYCAN RESPUBLhKASIN  NAZiRL;R  KABINETi
BA$ NAZiPN BIRNCI MUAVNI
aald PL, Lnnantov klc, 68.   Indelm 370066 TL: 92-4161, 92-56-13    Telcks 142163 BABK. Faks924161,989736
to               199  il                                                   %     0 0 77
Mr. Johannes Linn
Vice President
The World Bank
Europe and Central Asia Region
May 7,1999
Dear Mr.Linn,
Letter of Aeicultural Develooment and Credit Program
The Government of Azerbaijan attaches high priority to the reform of agiculture.
The goal of the reform is development of a market-oriented, competitive and diverse
agncultural sector serviced by well-functioning input and output market. The Republic has
made significant progress in refonning agro-industrial complex. On base of the laws of
Azerbaijan Republic including -"On Reform of State and Collectve farms", "On Agrarian
Reformn", "On Land Reorm" and "On Privafization of the State Property", most farms
and enterprises of agraian sector have been privafized, state controls over trade, price and
marketmg have been removed, and most subsidies and dircted credits have been
eliminated. Moreover, state companies such "Azerptitcheprom"(ste poulby concern).
"Azerpisheprom"(swte food concern) and 'Azerkhlebproducti(state bread corporrtion)
have been liquidated and the Ministry of Agriculture and other state agranan sector
management structures are being reformed. To accelerate the reform process even further
in March this year the President of Azerbaijan Republic issued a degree on "On Several
Measures to accelerate reforms in agrarian sector" which provided various forms of tax
relief to emerging prvate farmers. Also, a new Land Code is under consideration by
-123-



Parliament and a new State program on agrarian reform and entrepreneur development in
agriculture has been prepared and is expected to become effective soon.
Despite the substantial progress with reform, key issues remain that undermine
performance in the sector. We have elaborated the agricultural development and credit
program together with the World Bank to address these issues. The main objective of the
Program is to improve agricultural production and income of rural population of
Azerbaijan through interventions aimed at the development of a well-functioning land
market, sustainable agricultural support services, a viable rural financial system and a rural
policy analysis and strategy formulation capacity in this sector.
Government's Strategy in Agricultural Sector
Tne Government's strategy in agricultural sector, as articulated in the State
programs on agrarian reforn mentioned above, is aimed at completion of reforrns in
agriculture and providing social protection for the rural population. The strategy includes
the following key elements:
Completion of the land privatization and support for the emergence of a viable
private sector (to real owners) in agriculture. As a results of the reforrn in agriculture,
the farming community has undergone changes compared with 1991. Most farms have
now been privatized, and land shares and property entitlements distributed to farm
members. Considerable progress is being made, particularly in the allocation of farn lands
and the issuance of land titles to new farm families. As of March of present year some
675,000 titles had been issued for families counting to some 2,7 million. individuals which
constitutes 85 per cent of the expected total of 790,000 titles. We understand that the key
to the Government's efforts to develop a competitive rural economy, is the development
of well functioning land markets. It is necessary to note, much of the legal framework in
support of land markets is being put in place. A "Law on mortgages" was adopted and at
the present time, as it is mentioned above, adoption of the Land Code is expected.
However, necessary regulative base for land registration is not yet in piace. The
Government needs to pay closer attention to defining the future systems for secure
registry of title documents, for establishment a simple and transparent national registry
system to record land sale transactions and mortgages and to take other associated steps
to create a fair and competitive land market. Currently different registration procedures
for rural and urban land, and for urban buildings are in place. It can drive up the cost of
market transactions in land and buildings. To address this issues, we are planning to:
- complete the land privatization and issuing of land titles to farm families very shortly
as well as privatization of state and collective farm properties;
- adopt a real estate registration law and elaborate the unified national cadastre system;
-  elaborate the detail implementation arrangement of the "Law on mortgages" and
unified national land cadaster system
Development of rural finance system. Majority of farns in post-privatization
period haye financial constraints. However, the macro-economic and financial
stabilization, market liberalization and strengthening of the financial sector of the economy
-124-



provide the basis for the development a sound rural finance system, so we intend to
support the establishment of a competitive rural finance system serviced largely by rural
credit cooperatives. Currently farm and agro-business enterprises have difficulty in
securing commercial credit lines to meet their needs for working capital. It is related to
the fact, that private banking sector is constrained by limited charter capital, poor saving
mobilization and limited experience in evaluating loan proposals and assessing risk,
particularly in the rural sector. However, an increasing number of c ommnercial banks are
now expressing certain interest in developing agricultural portfolios, actual lending to the
sector is practically lacking because of perceived high risks and costs of such lending and
also due to lack of sufficient number of private banks in rural area. In general, rural clients
are not able to complere at the market of credit recourses with other types of clients
(traders, industrial enterprises, service providers). Many of farms also heavily indebted
thereby preventing the inflow of financial recourses into agriculture. In response, the
President's Decree mentioned above, provides number of measures for elimination of
certain obstacles, particularly:
- to exempt agricultural products manufacturers from all taxes, except for land tax, for
five years as well as to cancel existing tax debts;
-  to work out the issue of additional credit resources attraction for agrarian sector,
especially for improvement of farms.
-  Besides, the State Program on agrarian reform provides for the development and
support of credit unions with the purpose to cover entrepreneurs financial needs as
weil as taking measures on eliminating of farm arrears and debts to the banks. As
commercial Banks build their capital base and experience, the Government will focus
also on incentives ror an increased role for them in providing rural financial services
It is intended that the impiementation of this reform program will allow the emeraence of
sound and creditworthy agricultural clients.
Development of market infrastructure and informative provision in
agrarian sector. The reform policy in agriculture is aimed in producing farms that are
commercially viable, weil-managed and creditworthy. Continuing since 1991 the decline in
agricultural output and lack of financing for farms has led to the deterioration of capital
stock of farms and the worsening of agricultural operations. Following the rapid
distribution of land during the past two years, a significant number of farms have been
created, mostly small-scale holdings. The new farrners have no prior experience in running
an independent farming activity. Although they are already acquiring some of the basic
skills, a rapid influx of legal, fiscal management and technical information is required to
help them increase productivity and incomes and achieve viability. In the coming years,
with appropriate policies, the sector is expected to rapidly develop and diversifiy, implying
a concomitant growth in the diversity and depth of knowledge requirements, indicating the
need for flexible and responsive information and advisory services. In general, the market,
price and trade reforms implemented to date provide a solid basis for the development of a.
fully functioning agricultural marketing system. However poor price information and the
lack of competition in both output and credit markets often put farmers at a bargaining
disadvantage. We are going to support the development of rural businesses through:
-  develop unencumbered market channels, improve input and output marketing;
- develop consulting, leasing and marketing services;
-125-



-  improve the availability of market information;
- creation conditions for forming self-help groups for managing resources (Water Users
Associations) or access to financial, input supply and marketing services;
- develop commodity exchanges and wholesale network.
Land Reclamation Improvement and acceleration of Reform on Water
Economy. The extensive irrigation infrastructure is currently dilapidated. Especially hard
hit is the on-farm network which is gradually being destroyed because of lack of necessary
maintenance. As a result, water delivery to the fields of newly pnrvatized fanms is being
adversely affected. As a result, the amount of irrigated lands is dropping, and the land still
being irrigated, productivity and crop profitability is being reduced. We have defnite
positive experience in establishment of Water Users Associations with the support of the
World Bank under the Farm Privatization Project. These associations are beginning to
take over responsibility for normal maintenance and management of water distribution and
utilization. The Government is pianning further expansion of this kind of associations
network, however it recuires definite financial support. In addition, it is necessary to note
that we actively cooperate with international financial organization as well as the World
Bank for rehabilitation of inter-farm network.
Proposed Agricultural Development and Credit Program
The Agricultural Development and Credit Program has been develoDed with the
World Bank in line with Government's strategy in agriculturai sector. The proposed
program will support the following key elements of the State Program of agrarian reform:
-  establishment an accessible, secure and unified system for registering al nrghts in real
estate;
-  establishment of rural finance system  to meet credit requirements of the newly
established private farm sector and associated rural enterprises;
- creation of mixed public and private sector rural advisory services for rural enterprises;
Govermnent capacity to formulate appropriate policy and institutional responses to the
likely impact on the competitiveness of the rural economy of the anticipated build-up
in oil revenues.
This activities would improve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in a
predorninantly oil based economy; accelerate the post-privatization development of the
emerging private sector in agriculture; create fair and competitive land markets.
The program will include three phases and is estimated to last ten years. The first
phase would cover four years and focus on developing the legal framework, the
institutions, and the procedures for registering the newly established private rights to rural
land, the operation of mrual credit enterprises, the establishment of advisory services and
creation Government capacity to analyze and to elaborate institutional responses to the
-unpact of the developing oil sector on the agriculture. Subsequent phases wUl fbcus on
expanding the geographical coverage of the rural advisory and financial services, on
establishment of unified real estate registration system and will build on experience gained
during first phase.
-126-



Triggers for moving to the second phase will based on the following criteria:
establishment and satisfactory performance of regional land registration centers and
sufficient number of registered land transactions;
agreement for the institutional framework for nationwide implementation of a unified
real estate registration system;
registered land transactions and inquiries reach at least 10,000 a year;
adoption of a unified real estate registration law;
disbursement of the credit line for a diversified portfolio of sub-projects including a
balance mix of loans to credit cooperatives as well as to groups of borrowers, as
indicated by at least (a) 60 credit cooperatives and 160 groups of borrowers
established and (b) at least $8.0 rnillion in credit disbursed;
satisfactory performance of the sub-loan portfolio and proven sustainability of Local
Financial Intermediaries (LFI), measured, in particular, by 45 credit cooperatives with
a Subsidy Dependence Index of less than 50 per cent; at least 45 credit cooperatives in
full compliance with prudential norms and by at120 groups of borrowers with loan
recoveries of more than 85 per cent of amounts due;
-  sufficient outreach of LFIs indicated by at least 12,000 outstanding loans;
-  successful establishment and operation of the Farm Advisory centers and successful
implementation of the competitive grant scheme as indicated by: (i) at least 10,000
faurmers receiving training and advise annually, and at least 3,000 visit demonstration sites
annually; and (ii) successful operation of the competitive grant scheme.
To support the Agricultural Development and Credit program laid out in this letter,
the Government of the Azerbaijan Republic is requesting the International Development
Association to provide a financial facility in an amount of USS 100 million. Within this
facility, to implement the first phase of the program, the Government of Azerbaijan
Republic is requesting a Credit in an amount of US $ 30 million.
Yours Sincerely,
Abbas Abbasov
First Deputy Prime-Mnist
Azerbaijan Republic
-127-



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30234
45'                            46~                             4'7'48                                  <4555K5'
RUSSIAN                                                                                                             AEBIA
G E 0 R G I A                               BEAENAGICLTRATDVEOPEN
1EI      o AK                                                                                                                         NDCRDI  POJC
7A G,AKHU\,r,                                   CJA                    aly                                                               IFRAINAVSR   ETR
AGSTAFA    's                                 SPILOT REALETATI                                                                                                                                        EITAINAE
~~-"vAr--  K'  '"~~~~~~~~~<' 46'""'                                                                                                                                           U ~~~(3PALOCATION OF ROOALN   ESRTO   FIE
4$.  'TOVUL  ~'V't"'<                           0/-Li I                                           KOALA                                                            RIVER                                                   1
-41'  ~   ~      ~           K-                             ~        <    1      ~                  ARAA                                     4>     N".'RONOUDIE
SHAMKIR      \  011.                    ~2u                                                                                                                  --INTRAINLOUARE
<K ~ ?>G  A  N-J4A        <'          /YEK/                                                                      HT
I    HA 0   6  ,400 CAC/KIlSAN
KEDABEK                         R  FANBOY                                                              G
ARMENIA                                                                         AIKDAxEHERON  /BK 
$6466666       "'Y'66'/         KARTAR      1                                tilE/
40166'66U60            66/-K''  '~~~~~~~~~                       AGIKABUL                                                                                                                     40
40-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/DMA ACT/FHLO    4(6 'DIN66<6
6KHKODZHALY                                     I/l6
N                 LACI-KN               N            4<       L3EI~~~~~~~~3", LAGAN   9 <6,I
N  i-f  VA?'?                   ~~~~GUJADLY,
'BA   ><~~~~~~.t                      CL~~DEBRAIL                                     ,/               IIC'L 
46                                                          LIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DHAI-AB-D5K                                                                                           o
0/-IJEARY'  49                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKRAJNE     KAZAHSTA
V  (4                                ,,/9K                    <4                                                               .                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN
A       M SLL             4FEDERATION
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC  OF IRANKIMERSEOIAT62
K/Ks rp o'a prodced loAeMapSesKg I/oiloF Th WorGEOoRGI'4 1AERAN  ok 
The boo,dori,,, coIor.d.arr~ro6Korao6do~6yorKer6Fo6rratKarsIAZER TURKE
ooreprorcerboclohocojor,.e.                              / ~~~~~~~~~~ ISLAMIC
P''t'"   >     6, ~~REP.OF
4,6~~~~~~  4,7'                           41'                                                                                                     ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~I~  'SYRIAN ARAB REFf'  IRAO  IRAN
MAY999



