Report No. PID6889
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Agricultural Development and (+)
Credit Project
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       AZPE35813
Borrower                         Republic of Azerbaijan
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture,
State Land Committee, Project Management Unit
Tel:    994-12-989507
Date This PID Prepared           09/23/98
Projected Appraisal
Date                             1/11/98
Projected Board Date             4/99
A. Country and Sector Background
The reform program pursued in rural Azerbaijan over the past two years is
leading to a fundamental transformation of rural life. The on-going
liquidation of the state and collective farms, the majority of which have now
ceased to exist, and the physical distribution of a significant proportion of
the farm land to individual farm members is creating a private farm
structure, with large numbers of family small-holdings and private group farms
being created. The state organizations which formerly marketed input supplies
and farm outputs have also been dissolved and are being replaced by privately
owned and managed companies and the agro-processing sector is in the process
of being privatized. In short, a rural sector characterized by private
farms operating in private input and output markets is rapidly being created.
With the ownership and structural reforms in the sector approaching
completion, attention must now focus on the development of private farming in
the framework of a competitive, market-oriented rural sector. Current output
and productivity levels are extremely low and fail to provide adequate rural
income, reflecting the progressive reduction of production intensity over the
past decade. An environment must be created in which private farms can
progressively rebuild agricultural productivity as the foundation of the rural
economy. At present, farmers face a wide range of constraints including the
absence of a transparent, secure and competitive land markets, inadequate
information and technical advice, under-developed input and output markets and
the lack of a rural credit system.
(i) Land Market: Substantial progress has been made in the privatization of
land and the issuance of land titles to families. As of June 1998 some 126,000
titles had been issued for families counting some 600,000 individuals. This
constitutes about 17 per cent of the expected total of 750,000 titles. The
State Land Committee is steadily increasing the rate at which new titles are
issued and this currently stands at about 35,000 per month. The Government
currently operates a fragmented real estate system with different registries
being maintained in different agencies for rural land (State Land Committee),
Urban Land (municipalities), and for Urban buildings (Bureau of Inventory
Control). This fragmented approach leads to the waste of resources through the



maintenance of separate registries; drives up the cost of market transactions
in land and buildings and makes it difficult to cover the cost of maintaining
the various registries (fees earned from registration of urban land and
buildings can often help to cover the cost of a rural system). A law on
pledges is currently before Parliament, a revised new land code is being
drafted and should be ready for submission to the next session of the Milli
Majlis (Parliament), and the law on registration of immovable property (land
and buildings) is also being drafted for submission to the next session of the
Parliament. However, until these steps are completed, land transactions,
which have already commenced, will be effected in a non-transparent and
inadequately registered manner and in practice, farmers cannot use their land
as collateral.
(ii) Farm Advisory Services: Although the majority of the emerging private
farmers previously were involved in agriculture on the former state and
collective farms, the nature of the farming operations has changed. The
average farm size is often just a few hectares, compared to the large tracts
of land managed by the former state farms. Also, the objectives of the
operation has also changed - from yield maximization to profit maximization.
The availability of appropriate advice for the farmer for both technical and
management issues has, accordingly, become an important issue. Recent months
have witnessed the first signs of the emergence of a private sector capacity
in advisory services for farmers and agribusiness in the form of local
consultancy initiatives in Baku, Ganja and other localities. In addition
several inputs suppliers and agro-processors are providing technical support,
advisory services and/or demonstrations for their products. However, the scale
of such initiatives currently remains insignificant in relation to the needs
of the farming community.
(iii)   Rural Credit:  Presently, the emerging private farms and other rural
enterprises lack access to credit. The state-owned Agro-Industrial Bank
(Agroprombank) is being restructured and is unlikely to be a significant
provider of rural financial services in the near term.     The commercial
banking sector is also unlikely to play a major role rural finance, as they
lack liquidity due to the inability to inspire confidence from the would-be
depositors. Even if the commercial banks had the resources to lend, it is
doubtful that they would move aggressively into rural areas. The traditional
technologies they employ, and their high cost structures are ill-suited to
agricultural lending directed to thousands of new smallholder farmers and
small rural entrepreneurs. The commercial banks also perceive agriculture as
high risk, high cost and low-return, particularly relative to returns to
urban-based trade financing. Given the constraints on Agroprom and the
commercial banks, Government has turned to local member-owned institutions as
the solution to the lack of rural credit. Member-owned institutions have
better credibility with their shareholders/depositors and face lower lending
risk and transactions costs because of member screening and mutual liability.
To foster the development of such local institutions, the Government has
focused first on the legal and regulatory framework and the National Bank
recently promulgated regulatory Statutes for Non-Bank Credit Limited Liability
Enterprises. These regulations provide a flexible framework which can
accommodate a wide range of rural credit institutions, licensed under the NBA
as non-bank credit organizations. Second, new local finance institutions are
being established on a pilot basis under the new regulations in Zakhatala,
Salyan, Barda and elsewhere. Initial indications are that these bodies have
significant ability to raise local funds as equity or savings, and in this way
- 2-



to provide the asset basis for a channel for retailing of formal sector or
donor-provided funds.
(iv) Role of Government: With the privatization of land and of agricultural
enterprises the role of government in the agricultural sector has been reduced
dramatically. There continue, however, to be important functions of the public
sector, including the setting of the policy framework, the provision of
residual regulatory and information services, and the collection and
publication of agricultural statistics. Several areas of policy call for
careful elaboration: most fundamentally, as the oil boom gathers momentum,
there is a critical need for a carefully prepared strategy to cope with the
so-called Dutch Disease - the negative effects on traded good production which
is likely to result from continuing exchange rate appreciation. This process
has already started and the manat has firmed against the US dollar in the past
year (and appreciated against most other currencies). The Government needs to
determine the extent to which it is feasible and appropriate to attempt to
off-set the effects of exchange rate appreciation through special measures to
support productivity growth in agriculture and to identify which measures
should be used.
B. Objectives
The objective of the Agricultural Development and Credit Program is to
improve incomes and agricultural productivity in rural Azerbaijan through
interventions aimed at the development of a well-functioning land market,
sustainable agricultural support services, a viable rural financial system for
small rural enterprises, and a rural policy analysis and strategy formulation
capacity. The program is envisaged to encompass at least three phases to be
implemented over a ten year period. The first phase, which is described in
this PID, would cover about four years and focus on developing the legal
framework, the institutions, and the procedures for registering the newly
established private rights to rural land, the operation of rural credit
enterprises, and the establishment of advisory services. It will also create
capacity in the Government to analyze and respond to the impact on rural
Azerbaijan of developments in the oil sector. Subsequent phases lasting from
three to four years each would focus on expanding the geographical coverage of
the rural advisory and financial services. For the real estate registration
system, the focus would be on consolidating the existing fragmented system for
recording transactions in urban and rural lands and in buildings and land into
one unified real estate registration system.
The main objectives of the first phase of the project are: (i) to create land
markets as defined by an increase in the number of registered land sales,
mortgages and other transactions; (ii) to develop sustainable rural advisory
and information services as defined by the frequency and number of farmer
contacts, the willingness of farmers to pay for information and advice, and
the number of private providers of services; and (iii) to build a viable rural
financial system as defined by the number of local credit enterprises
established, the volume of their lending and the soundness of their
portfolios.
Description
The project would consist of the following components:
(i)     Farm advisory services : would establish a network of farmer would
establish a network of farmer advisory centers progressively on a zonal basis.
-3 -



It would build on the IDA/IFAD financed Farm Privatization Project currently
under implementation, which has initiated a system in six project rayons and
is providing a wide range of information on technical, management and
marketing issues of concern to farmers. The centers will increase access by
farmers and agri-business operators to information and required to increase
productivity. The project will rely on locally recruited specialists and will
aim to de develop the private market for advisory services. It will also
strengthen linkages between international and local agricultural research
institutes, education and the extension services.
(ii)    Rural credit services: would create a number of   local member owned
credit institutions aimed at lowering the costs and risks of lending to the
rural sector. The credit institutions would serve the rural population by
mobilizing local resources and providing credit. The component will support
the creation of a two tier financing system consisting of 200 retailers of
financial services - Local Credit Companies (LCCs) - and one wholesaler of
funds - the Rural Credit Company - (RCC) and the provision of a credit line to
be channeled through the RCC to the LCCs. This would be piloted during the
project preparation period to support the creation and functioning of credit
institutions to serve the rural population for mobilization of local resources
and to act as a channel for the provision of credit.
(iii)   Land registration services:   would initiate the development of a
unified land registration system and to be maintained on a regional or zonal
basis. The project proposes a phased approach, beginning with the completion
of unfinished tasks of a nationwide rural land registration followed by
reaching agreements on the institutional and legal framework and defining the
scope for the unified system during the first phase. Subsequent phases would
implement the unified system nationwide.
(iv)   Institutional Strengthening: would strengthen the capacity of
Government to formulate agricultural policies and manage investment projects
in the sector, through the following sub-components:
(a)     Agricultural Strategy Unit:   would provide support for the
establishment of a high-level unit in government charged with the formulation
of appropriate strategies for coping with the threat of Dutch Disease with
reference to the agricultural sector.; and
(b) Project Management Unit (PMU): would strengthen the PMU of the on-going
IDA/IFAD financed Farm Privatization Project to undertake the implementation
of the proposed project.
Financing
The costs of the proposed first phase of the program have been estimated at
about $35 million. The project would be financed by IDA, Government of
Azerbaijan and beneficiaries. As this is tentative, detailed cost estimates
and financing arrangements would be firmed up as the preparation proceeds. A
Japanese PHRD grant of $346,000 is also under process for the detailed
preparation of the rural credit component, land registration, office expenses
and training of project officials.
Implementation
The project will be implemented over a four year period. Overall project
management and coordination will be carried out through the Project Management
Unit of the Farm Privatization Project, whose capacity would be strengthened.
It will be responsible for preparing and supervising implementation of annual
work programs, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, and procurement of goods
and services.   The farm advisory services component would be implemented at
- 4 -



two levels: a Central Services Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture, which
will manage the component as whole, while Advisory Centers would be
established in about four rayons, during the first phase project but serving a
wider zonal area. The Land Registration component will be implemented through
the State Land Committee. Under the project an enhanced role will be afforded
to the land registries at the rayon level, with a view to providing accessible
land transfer services in the rural areas. The rural credit component would be
implemented initially through the Project Management Unit. Capacity would be
built in the PMU for undertaking this activity. It is proposed that this
function would be replaced by the eventual establishment of a Rural Credit
Corporation, (RCC), which would act as a wholesaler of funds to Local Credit
Companies. The RCC and the LCCs will be established in accordance with the
existing regulations and the appropriate on-lending arrangements will be
developed further during project preparation.    The agricultural strategy unit
would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture in coordination with the
Cabinet of Ministers.
Sustainability
The project will make an important contribution to putting agriculture onto a
sustainable basis, following the upheavals of the past decade. Specifically
sustainability will be enhanced through:
- Helping farmers to adjust to cropping patterns and technologies which are
profitable in the new market environment;
- Creating, through the Farm Advisory Services a source of assistance to
farmers which is designed to be handled primarily by the private sector in the
longer term.   The design of this module aims to encourage the self-sustaining
efforts of the emerging private sector in advisory services through training
and contracting. Sustainability will be pursued by phasing in of fees for
services where appropriate.
- The rural credit system proposed under this project is similarly designed
to become self-sustaining, by emphasizing the equity aspect of local finance
mobilization.
- The proposed Agricultural Strategy Unit has as its principal aim to develop
sustainable policies and forms of support for the rural sector during and
beyond the oil boom years. This is a complex issue which requires careful
analysis and program formulation by Government.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project will be the first in Azerbaijan aimed at addressing post-
privatization problems in agriculture. Attention will need to be paid during
project preparation to ensure that this employment generating and poverty
reducing impact is sustained through appropriate detailed project design,
through the design and implementation of internal project regulations for
access to services, credit and other project mechanisms and benefits.
Particular attention will also be given to gender issues during detailed
preparation and implementation. Beyond the examination of project's impact on
those issues, there is a need for better understanding what are the
implications on women of the considerable social and economic changes now
taking place in the country.
The development of land markets will benefit all rural communities ; in
particular, farmers will have greater possibilities to extend and/or
consolidate their holdings, while those who wish to leave farming will be able
to sell or lease at fair prices. Advisory services will benefit a wide
spectrum of farmers through the initial, broadly targeted information/training
- 5 -



activities. Further on, the system will diversify and offer specific services
to different types of clients, with increasing cost recovery ensuring adequate
client control, while public services will be made available at no cost for
poorer farmers, mostly through mass media means.
While the farming community is the principal target beneficiary group, the
benefits of the project will accrue more widely to the rural population.
Renewed growth of farm output and rural trade will affect the wider rural
population by creating increased employment opportunities both on-farm and
off-farm and by providing the basis for regeneration of the important agro-
processing sector.
Environmental Aspects
The project is expected to have an overall positive impact on the rural
environment and has been given a "B" category rating. Field observations
indicate that the new emerging owners of the privatized farm lands are more
concerned with environmental issues now than under the previous system and are
likely to use more environmentally sound practices. However, with the need to
increase agricultural productivity, the use of agricultural materials
including fuel, fertilizer and agro-chemicals are likely to increase from the
current low levels. With the emergence of private input trade and many small
holder farmers, the Government's ability to regulate the trade, storage and
use of agro-chemicals is weak. Sub-projects which may be proposed under the
line of credit could have adverse environmental impact. Measures proposed to
be taken include the introduction of Integrated Pest Management (IPM)
techniques in the farm advisory services, reviewing during project preparation
the Government's regulations and procedures and their enforcement for the
trade, storage, and use of agro-chemicals, develop and agree with Government
steps to address the shortcomings, design during project preparation
screening and sub-loan review procedures including the development of a
negative list of items ineligible for financing with Bank-provided funds, and
environmental guidelines to be followed by the LCCs in the evaluation of sub-
projects.
Program Objective Categories
The program object category is agriculture.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Roy Southworth, Program Team Leader, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-9710
Fax No.:         (202) 614-0697
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 6 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 2, 1998.
-7 -



ANNEX
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



