Report No. PIC4385
Project Name             Egypt-Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation (@+)
Project
Region                   Middle East and North Africa
Sector                   Irrigation and Drainage
Project ID               EGPA41410
Implementing Agency      Mechanical and Electrical Department
(MED) of the Ministry of Public Works
and Water Resources
Sharet Tafteesh El Ray
Shobra Mazzalat
Cairo
Tel: (202) 203 9293/94
Fax: (202) 2039270
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        March 21, 1997
Project Appraisal        October 1997
Projected Board Date     July 23, 1998
Background
1.      Agriculture has traditionally played a dominant role in the
Egyptian economy and still accounts for 20 percent of GDP and of
total exports and 35 percent of the labor force. The agricultural
sector is characterized by an agricultural land base which, on a
per capita basis, ranks among the lowest in the world (0.12 feddan
per capita). Moreover, without any significant rainfall, and
complete dependence on its share of 55.5 billion cubic meters per
annum of Nile water, the country will need to increasingly improve
returns from its available water resources in an environmentally
sound and sustainable manner. The proposed project would implement
measures aimed at ensuring efficiency and environmental
sustainability in the management and utilization of the country's
water resources, a key component of the Agricultural Sector
Strategy prepared by the Government of Egypt (GOE) with the
assistance of the Bank in 1993.
2.      The success of irrigated agriculture depends to a large
extent on the effective operation and maintenance of the irrigation
and drainage system. Given the very flat topography in most parts
of the country, water in open conveyance channels as well as
drainage water needs to be pumped out at certain critical points by
some 550 large pumping stations which are of vital importance for
Egypt's agriculture in the Nile Valley and Delta. About one-half of
these pumping stations have very old pumping units, some of which
need frequent repairs and cause disruptions to the system. In
addition, about 520 tubewells are exploiting the groundwater
aquifers through submersible pumps.
3.      In order to avoid the harmful effects of irrigation and



drainage pump failures on crops and reduce the operation and
maintenance cost of the pumping stations, the GOE has set up a
long-term program for the rehabilitation and modernization of the
irrigation and drainage pumping network of the Nile Water Resource
Management System. A Bank-supported project (Loan 2270-EGT, in the
amount of US$41.5 million) was launched in 1983, as a first stage
support to this program. On project completion in June 1992, about
90 pumping stations and 85 submersible pumps were rehabilitated.
This represented double the physical achievements of the appraisal
estimates, made possible by cost savings achieved by the ICB
procedures introduced by the project and exchange rate movements. A
second Bank-supported project (Loan 3198-EGT, in the amount of
US$31.0 million) followed in 1991, to support an additional time
slice of the MED's program and help rehabilitate about 45 existing
stations and construct five new stations. Implementation is highly
satisfactory.
Project Objectives
4.      The proposed project would be the third phase of GOE's long-
term program for the rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage
pumping network of the Nile water management system. Its overall
objectives would be to: (a) increase crop yields through improved
reliability of delivery of irrigation water and evacuation of
drainage water; (b) reduce public expenditures for irrigation and
drainage through improved efficiency of operation and maintenance
of the pumping stations; and (c) further strengthen the planning
and O&M capability of the Mechanical and Electrical Department
(MED) of the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MPWWR).
Project Description
5.      The proposed project would have two main components:
(a) implementation of a third slice of the public investment
program for the rehabilitation of pumping stations in the Nile
Valley and the Delta consisting of: (i) complete replacement of
equipment and rehabilitation of civil works for 22 pumping
stations, with pumping units of discharge varying between 0.4 and
10.0 m3/s; (ii) construction and equipment of 18 new pumping
stations to replace existing stations and provide additional
capacity where required with pumping units of discharge varying
between 0.3 and 7.5 m3/s; (iii) provision of spare parts for 14
existing pumping stations; (iv) rehabilitation of existing
buildings, workshops and offices; and (v) provision of O&M
equipment, workshop equipment and vehicles; and
(b) Institutional support through: (i) strengthening managerial
capability at the level of pumping stations by staff training and
incentives; (ii) developing an integrated MIS strategy for MED and
for the Irrigation and Drainage Department; (iii) restructuring and
supporting MED's Central Technical Directorates through technical
assistance, training and organizational studies; and (iv)
establishing an environmental monitoring unit in MED.
- 2 -



Project Cost and Financing
6.      The total cost of the project, including physical and
financial contingencies, over a six-year period, is estimated at
US$246 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$153
million. The project would be financed by a 50:50 blend of IBRD
loan and IDA credit of about US$120 million, a KfW loan of DM 50
million (about US$33 million) and a Government contribution LE 316
million (US$93 million equivalent).
Project Implementation
7.      The MED which has been the implementing agency for Project I
and II with the assistance of a Special Task Team, would be
responsible for implementation of the proposed project. It would be
responsible for carrying out design, procurement, installation,
operation and maintenance of the pumping stations. During
appraisal, assurances of the Government would be sought that the
Task Team would continue to coordinate implementation of the
proposed project. A first priority list of pumping stations was
prepared by MED and revised during pre-appraisal. To ensure
flexibility and responsiveness, the rehabilitation program would be
revised annually.
Project Sustainability
8.      Project sustainability is closely linked to the efficiency of
O&M of the pumping stations. While much has been achieved under the
first two projects, further work remains to ensure further
development of the O&M capabilities of MED, by supporting
integration of the various existing MIS to achieve coordination,
and to continue the progressive devolution of O&M responsibility of
submersible groundwater pumps to users associations initiated under
Project II.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The project has received an Environment Category B rating
(see attached Annex).
Program Objective Categories
10.     The project would address the following Bank program
objective categories: (i) environmentally-sustainable development
through provision of timely irrigation water and evacuation of
saline drainage water; (ii) institution building, through the
development of human resources in the MED and institutional
support; and (iii) poverty alleviation, through the provision of
irrigation water to sustain agricultural income and the livelihood
of the rural population of Egypt.
Project Benefits and Risks
11.     The proposed project would have the following benefits: (a)
increasing yields through ensuring timely delivery of water,
-3 -



especially during peak periods and reducing water logging; and (b)
reducing O&M costs of pumping. A major risk is that adequate O&M
budget would not be allocated to ensure that pumping stations
installed under the proposed project do not deteriorate
prematurely. Assurance would be obtained from the Government to
ensure that O&M budgets are provided in an adequate and timely
manner. Project performance could also be affected by possible
delays in project implementation. This risk is mitigated by the
highly satisfactory implementation performance of the current Pump
Stations Rehabilitation Project II which is being implemented by
the same Task Team within the MED which will be entrusted with the
implementation of the proposed project. The MED has over the years
acquired considerable experience with procurement under Bank-
financed projects and the strengthening of the MED's Technical
Bureau and the Directorate of Studies and Specifications, is
expected to minimize any delays which may be encountered during
implementation.
Contact Point:           Jean-Francois Barres/Nejdet Al-Salihi, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2537/473-2517
Fax No.: (202) 477-1374
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 28,1997
Environmental Annex
The project is expected to have a positive effect on the
environment and population within the area served by the irrigation
and drainage pumping stations. Rehabilitation of the drainage
pumping stations would help maintain the water table at low levels
thus preventing water logging and soil salinization. The technical
specifications of drainage pumping station equipment will take into
consideration the high salinity of drainage water. Moreover, reuse
of drainage water for irrigation could result in poor quality of
the water used for irrigation if the drainage water is used in
excess of the maximum 50 percent set by MPWWR. The project would
help establish an environmental monitoring unit in the MED to
control the quality of mixed irrigation water and water quality in
irrigation and drainage channels. The project has been classified
in Category B.
-4-



