                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000595




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-43860)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 120 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                     FOR A

           THIRD PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                February 25, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region




                                                                       1

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective March 22, 2007)

                      Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound
                              1.00 = US$0.175
                            US$ 1.00 = LE 5.70

                              FISCAL YEAR

                              July 1 ­ June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAO     Central Auditing Office
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CR      Complete Rehabilitation
DRI     Drainage Research Institute
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
EPADP   Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GD      General Directorate
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOE     Government of Egypt
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IWRMP   Integrated Water Resources Management Plan
KfW     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufoau (German Bank for International
        Development)
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MED     Mechanical and Electrical Department of MPWWR
MIS     Management Information System
MWRI    Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NC      New Construction
NPV     Net Present Value
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
OED     Operations and Evaluation Department
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PR      Partial Replacement
PS      Pumping Station
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
SP      Spare parts
TA      Technical Assistance
USAID   United States Agency for International Development




                                                                         2

   Vice President: Daniela Gressani
 Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi
  Sector Manager: Vijay Jagannathan
Task Team Leader: Maher Abu-Taleb
ICR Team Leader: A. Azad




                                       3

                            ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
         THIRD PUMPING STATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                           CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 1
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 1
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 2
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................... 2
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 2
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 2
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 2
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 2
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..............
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.............................................................................
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.......................
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 1
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................... 1
 MAP




                                                                                                                           4

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Pumping Stations
Country:               Egypt                   Project Name:
                                                                     Rehabilitation III
Project ID:            P041410                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-43860
ICR Date:              10/09/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                     EGYPT
Original Total
                       USD 120 million         Disbursed Amount:     USD 99.546 million
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the Ministry of Water Resources and
Irrigation (MWRI)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: GOE and German Development Bank (KfW)


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/17/1996     Effectiveness:         06/29/2000       06/29/2000
Appraisal:            03/06/1998     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             08/06/1998     Mid-term Review:       12/30/2005       03/24/2004
                                     Closing:               02/28/2005       08/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Modest
Bank Performance:                              Moderately satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately
                       unsatisfactory          Government:           Moderately satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately              Implementing
                       Satisfactory            Agency/Agencies:      Moderately satisfactory

Overall Bank                                           Borrower
Performance:           Moderately satisfactory Overall
                                               Performance:          Moderately satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem                              Quality at Entry
                         Yes                                       None
Project at any time                            (QEA):


                                                                                           5

(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                           No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               10                  10
Irrigation and drainage                                         90                  90


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Environmental policies and institutions                        Primary            Primary
Rural policies and institutions                              Secondary           Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary            Primary
Water resource management                                      Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                 Kemal Dervis
Country Director:          Emmanuel Mbi                     Salah Darghouth, Acting
Sector Manager:            Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan     Salah Darghouth,
Task Team Leader:          Maher F. Abu-Taleb               Nejdet Al-Salihi
ICR Team Leader:           A. Azad
ICR Primary Author:        A. Azad



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were to: (a) improve the efficiency of
operation and maintenance of the pumping stations and thereby save public expenditures on
O&M; (b) improve the efficiency and reliability of delivery of irrigation water and evacuation
of drainage water to prevent losses in crop yields resulting from the ageing stations; and (c)
strengthen further the planning and O&M capability of the MED to enhance the sustainability
of the irrigation and drainage systems.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                                                            6

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of farm families and total area benefiting
                                           700,000 farm
Value                                      families                          Over one million

(quantitative or Not available.            1.55 million                      farm families; 2.4

qualitative)                               feddans (651,000                  million feddans

                                           ha)                               (one million ha)

Date achieved                                                                August 2007
Comments         Number of farm families and area to benefit will increase when the new
(incl. %         pumping stations sub-component is completed. The project is still under
achievement)     implementation by GOE and KfW.
Indicator 2 :   Prevention of agricultural production losses
Value
(quantitative or Not available             US$ 69 million                    US$54 million per

qualitative)                               per year                          year

Date achieved                                                                August 2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Reduction of operation and maintenance cost and energy consumption
                                           US$ 1.2 million                   US$ 1.55 million
Value                                      per year O&M                      per year O&M
(quantitative or Not available             savings; US$ 2.1                  savings; US$ 3
qualitative)                               million per year                  million per year
                                           energy savings.                   energy savings.
Date achieved                                                                August 2007
Comments
(incl. %         Estimated increase in efficiencies: from 44% to 64% for irrigation and from

achievement)     43% to 50% for the drainage pumping stations.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
                 A) Construction of new pumping stations.

Indicator 1 :    B) Complete or partial rehabilitation of pumping stations.
                 C) Provision of spare parts.
                 D) Upgrading of Emergency Centers.

Value                                      A) = 32                           A) = 0

(quantitative    Not available             B) = 36                           B) = 49

or qualitative)                            C) = 9                            C) = 55
                                           D) = 5                            D) = 5
Date achieved                                                                August 2007
Comments         None of the new pumping stations have been completed. All the
(incl. %         electromechanical equipment has been delivered and the civil works are in
achievement)     progress. Estimated completion date is December 2008.


                                                                                               7

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                    IP         Disbursements
                                                            (USD millions)
  1   03/05/2001        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             0.50
  2   11/01/2001        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             3.85
  3   04/30/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             9.36
  4   05/22/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            10.89
  5   11/15/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            18.90
  6   05/12/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            23.35
  7   06/23/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            24.47
  8   12/12/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            35.10
  9   02/27/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            35.33
 10   04/28/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            35.38
 11   05/26/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            35.49
 12   11/01/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            39.10
 13   04/25/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            48.02
 14   10/31/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            58.28
 15   12/22/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            60.26
 16   06/22/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            67.49
 17   12/20/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory            78.44
 18   04/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory            83.01
 19   07/30/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory            88.05
                                                                     99.546



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                                                          8

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The proposed project was the third phase of the Government of Egypt's (GOE) long-term
program for rehabilitation of the major pumping stations located on main canals and drains of
the Nile Valley and Delta water management system. Most of the pumping stations (about 743
stations) are large by world standards with pumping capacities ranging between 2 to 75 m3/s.
They command large irrigated and drainage areas with a high cropping intensity ranging from
180 to 200 percent. New lands, which always need pumping, are planted with high value export
oriented crops such as fruits, vegetables and groundnuts while the major crops in the Nile delta
and the valley are rice, sugar cane, wheat, cotton, broad beans, fruits and vegetables.

The Government has formulated a long-term program for rehabilitation of the irrigation and
drainage pumping stations to reduce the adverse effects on crops of inefficient pumping
operations (i.e. mainly because of the deteriorating physical condition of the pumping stations
resulting from aging and lack of spare parts). From a fiscal point of view the program would
also reduce the operation and maintenance costs of the pumping stations. The World Bank fully
endorsed the objectives of this program and has provided support for more than two decades.
The rehabilitation of the aging pumping stations was recommended as a priority operation in the
Irrigation Sub-sector Review carried out by the World Bank in 1981. The World Bank's
strategy in Egypt has given high priority to financing projects which improve the utilization of
existing capacities, particularly in the irrigation and drainage sector. Other donors also
identified the rehabilitation of pumping stations as a priority area for support. Among these
donors are the German Development Bank (KfW), EU, USAID, Japan, and the Islamic
Development Bank.

The Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) of the Ministry of Water Resources and
Irrigation (MWRI) owns the pumping assets and is responsible all aspects of their design,
construction, operation and maintenance.

The previous two phases of the project were implemented between 1983 and 1998 and covered
only 17 and 9 percent of the existing pumping stations respectively. The overall performance of
the first phase was rated highly satisfactory while the second phase was rated unsatisfactory by
the Bank's Operation and Evaluation Department (OED) now known as the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The primary PDOs were to: (1) improve the efficiency of operation and maintenance of the
pumping stations and thereby save public expenditures on O&M; (2) improve the efficiency and
reliability of delivery of irrigation water and evacuation of drainage water to prevent the losses
in crop yields resulting from aging stations; and (3) strengthen further the planning and O&M
capability of the MED to enhance the sustainability of the irrigation and drainage systems. The
key performance indicators were:

· Number of farm families to benefit: 700,000.
· Irrigation and drainage area to benefit or effectively served: 1.55 million feddans (651,000
    ha).
· Prevention of agricultural production losses: estimated at US$ 69 million/year.
· Reduction of operation and maintenance cost: US$ 1.2 million per year during the first five
    years after project completion.


                                                                                                9

· Reduction of energy consumption: US$ 2.1 million per year
· Strengthening of planning and O&M capability in MED to improve efficiency and enhance
    the sustainability of the irrigation and drainage systems.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification.

The PDOs and key performance indicators were not changed during project implementation.



1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The direct beneficiaries were estimated at 700,000 small farmers and their families farming in
an area of 1.55 million feddans (651,000 ha). The rehabilitation of pumping stations would help
the direct beneficiaries, whose average size farm is about 2 feddans, in avoiding a decline in
their income due to unreliable irrigation water supply and accumulation of drainage water. It
would also reduce the incentives of the rural population to migrate to urban centers. Although
poverty-targeted intervention and employment generation was not mentioned as a higher
development objective, the project is in line with key features of the current reform program of
GOE as it relates to job creation and poverty alleviation.

The other direct beneficiaries are the staff of MED and operators of pumping stations.
Employment of skilled and unskilled labour during the construction and operation and
maintenance period are other direct benefits.

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Rehabilitation of pumping stations (US$214.4 million, 85% of total cost). This
component would support: (i) new construction of 32 pumping stations, of which four (drainage
stations) were to be financed by KfW, to replace existing old and dilapidated stations. It would
provide for the supply and installation of electromechanical and auxiliary equipment, trash racks
and civil works including buildings' inlet and outlet works. The GOE was to finance all civil
works and parts of the auxiliary equipment manufactured in Egypt; (ii) complete rehabilitation of
36 pumping stations of which three (drainage stations) were to be financed by KfW, to replace all
of the electromechanical equipment within the existing buildings with some rehabilitation of
buildings, inlet and outlet works; (iii) supply and installation of spare parts and selective
rehabilitation of inlet and outlet works for repairs and rehabilitation of 9 drainage pumping
stations; and (iv) supply of mobile pumps, motors and generators of various capacities (diesel and
electric) for five emergency centers (two existing and three new) to be established under the
project. The GOE would finance the construction of buildings and other facilities for these centers.

Component 2: Strengthening central workshop and electrical laboratories (US$10.9 million,
4% of total cost) would provide for O&M equipment to central mechanical workshops and
electrical laboratories through provisions of appropriate equipment including mobile electrical
laboratory equipment and mobile mechanical workshops. Locally manufactured equipment and
vehicles would be procured through GOE financing and loan funds would be used for specialized
equipment and heavy duty equipment which would not be available locally.

Component 3: Institutional support (US$ 23.7 million, 10% of total cost) would strengthen the
electrical and mechanical workshops and laboratories for preventive maintenance, providing
diagnostic and inspection equipment, miscellaneous equipment for maintenance purposes, staff
housing, workshops, stores and field offices and supply of vehicles. Two new units would be
established within MED: (i) to coordinate the environmental activities both within MED and with
other agencies; and (ii) for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities. The component also
involved strengthening of the Management Information System (MIS), focusing in particular on



                                                                                              10

expanding MIS activities in the field offices, stores and workshops/laboratories. It further involved
the introduction of a telemetry system on a pilot scale. The M&E unit would selectively monitor
the efficiency and energy consumption of pumping stations before project improvements and after
installation of new electromechanical equipment. New procedures for monitoring project benefits
from agriculture production and reduced expenditures on O&M would include appropriate
selection of areas and monitoring parameters. The equipment for this component would be
financed by the Bank.

Component 4: Capacity Building (US$3.4 million, 1% of total cost) for MED through
technical assistance and training, consulting services for M&E, specialized studies, public
awareness raising of the role of the pumping stations, and strengthening of the MIS and
environmental activities, staff training overseas and locally with regard to pumping stations
inspection and diagnosis, stores administration, monitoring of pumping stations O&M, MIS and
telemetry linkage to the main system of the MWRI. Only a small portion i.e. US$ 0.6 million
was to be financed through the World Bank loan.

At appraisal in 1998, total costs of the six-year project amounted to US$252.4 million.
Financing was to be shared by GOE ­ 41%; IBRD ­ 48%; and KfW ­ 11%. The IBRD loan was
approved in August 1998 and the project closing date was February 2005.

1.6 Revised Components
Components were not revised during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes: The major changes were:

(i) The project was twice extended. The original closing date of February 2005 was extended to
August 2007.

(ii) An amount of US$ 20 million was cancelled from the loan amount of US$120 million in
2004. The international prices for electro-mechanical equipment were lower than anticipated at
appraisal. Local costs were lower in US$ terms because of devaluation of the Egyptian Pound.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was identified by MED and prepared by the Bank team and FAO/CP. No quality
assessment of project design was made at appraisal. Although the project objectives and
component were reasonable and simple, the quality at entry is considered moderately
unsatisfactory. The project's institutional support provisions for technical assistance (design and
construction supervision), monitoring and evaluation, management information systems and all
other implementation activities including capacity building and training were insufficient, given
the limited technical and institutional expertise within MED. Inadequate attention was given to
land acquisition and to bringing the new construction sub-component, MIS and establishment of
M&E unit to a state of readiness before project effectiveness. One of the major lessons learned
under the first phase project was that use should be made of turnkey contracts for construction
of new pumping stations. This was not included in project design.
The project design covered mainly rehabilitation of existing large pumping stations that are far
from the farms. Because of their location no social assessment was carried out. These stations
serve mainly main canals and drains of the larger irrigation and drainage systems. The
downstream irrigation and drainage distribution systems, on-farm drainage and support to
Water User Groups/ Associations were the subject of the National Drainage Project (NDP) and
the Irrigation Improvement Project (IIP). The NDP and IIP were also supported by the WB as
well as by a number of donors during the design stage and implementation of this project. It was
recognized at the design stage of this project that it would be extremely difficult to expect any

                                                                                                11

progress on cost recovery of O&M beyond what was agreed under the NDP and IIP. The loan
agreement called for development of plans for the transfer of responsibilities for O&M of the
small pumping stations to farmers. However, no provision was made for support apart from a
small study to be finance by the loan. Attempts were made during earlier pumping stations
projects to hand over booster pumps to farmers, however this was not found to be practical as
farmers very often ended up requesting MED to take back stations to avoid total failure of their
crops. This was due to breakdowns of pumps and the electromechanical equipment associated
with them, which the farmers themselves were not equipped to operate and maintain.

With regard to water measurement at the pumping stations the FAO/CP preparation report
highlighted that water measuring reports referred to nominal pump ratings and not to actual
measurements. The reported (nominal) measurements deviated in fact more than 30% from the
actual measurements. To promote rational water use it was proposed during project preparation
that all the rehabilitated pumping stations would be supplied by water measuring equipment.
However, the loan agreement did not include water metering equipment.

Two critical risks were identified at appraisal: (a) inappropriate design and selection process,
and (b) inadequate operation and maintenance budget. These risks were supposed to be
minimized by (a) applying well established design criteria from the previous two phases
financed by the WB and (b) reviewing yearly budget provisions during supervision missions.

2.2 Implementation

Board approval occurred in August 1998, but delays in credit agreement approval by the cabinet
and ratification by the People's Assembly only allowed effectiveness to occur in June 2000.
The project started disbursing three years after Board approval, and the initial momentum built-
up during project preparation was lost.

The project was implemented directly by the MED without any separate project implementation
unit. The plans for renewal or complete replacement of each pumping station were subjected to
a number of criteria which are summarized below. In most cases these criteria were met,
however feasibility and completion reports are not available for each or a cluster of pumping
stations financed under the World Bank loan.

· The age of the equipment exceeds 20 years
· The average operating hours per unit exceed 100,000 hrs
· The capacity is inadequate or there is no stand-by unit
· Discharge and static head requirements have changed
· Very poor condition of the building ­ major structural deficiencies
· Problems with switch gear, gear boxes and corrosion
· New pumps will be installed if the cost of spare parts exceeds 70% of new pumps


The project was seriously affected by invalid assumptions made at appraisal: that the
implementation schedule was practicable for the new construction of irrigation and drainage
pumping stations; that MED was institutionally capable of successfully implementing the civil
works without the support from the consultants; and that M&E would happen easily.
Performance of the civil works contracts was greatly delayed and therefore largely
unsatisfactory. Factors fully or mostly within the control of the GOE and of the MWRI/MED
that resulted in implementation delays included (i) time taken for land acquisition for the
construction of new pumping stations; (ii) a slow build-up in preparation of designs and tender
documents; (iii) slow tendering of civil works construction contracts; (iv) slow progress of
contracts execution; (v) unusual delays in preparing the design and contracting of the MIS.




                                                                                            12

Devaluation of the local currency from 2001 to 2003 had a substantial impact on project
progress. Egyptian regulations that precluded the application of price escalation adjustments are
also identified as a negative contributing factor for the civil works part of the pumping stations.
The civil works contracts were implemented by MED according to their GOE guidelines and
did not contain conventional escalation clauses of the Bank's typical bidding documents. The
implementation of civil works through local funding had been the norm on the previous two
projects financed by the Bank.

There was inadequate intra- and inter-departmental coordination within MWRI which resulted
MED working mostly in isolation.

Total project costs are re-estimated at US$193.9 million against the appraisal estimate of
US$252.4 million. Expenditures on the institutional support component exceeded appraisal
estimates.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Project appraisal gave due attention to M&E by calling for the establishment of an M&E unit
and performance indicators. However, the institutional assessment did not clearly establish that
MED was actually committed to setting up such a new M&E unit. In fact, as early as in 2000
MED announced that the M&E unit would not be established. The reason given was that
monitoring and operation responsibilities are with the Directorate of Investment Project,
Monitoring and Follow-Up, while evaluation responsibilities are with the Directorate of
Inspection General.

The M&E unit was supposed to monitor the efficiency of pumps, energy consumption, and
discharge and to develop procedures for monitoring the benefits in terms of preventing losses in
agricultural production resulting from installation of new electro-mechanical equipment. The
parameters established by the M&E unit would have been used to monitor the agricultural
production and other benefits, such as benefits in terms of reduced expenditures on O&M. This
would be initially limited to about two drainage pumping stations and four irrigation pumping
stations. This would have been expanded to six more pumping stations during the third and
fourth year of project implementation. The project made provisions for both international and
local experts' services and socio-economic surveys to establish base line data for selected
pumping stations.

No attempts were made to prepare a simple baseline survey during project implementation. The
M&E system was not well-embedded institutionally and did not have sufficient ownership,
reflecting the apparent disinterest of the MED and the MWRI. Some activity reports were
produced by the project coordinator during project implementation but these reports could only
provide decision makers with information on the status of inputs and outputs and not on
outcomes or impacts. Reliable outcomes and impacts could only realistically be made some
years after commissioning of pump stations and would not be easily determined in the short
span of project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was rightly placed in environmental screening category "B" and was consistent
with Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." Given the focus on
rehabilitation of existing pumping stations, the project did not require an involuntary
resettlement or result in damage to archaeological and/or historical sites. Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was prepared by MED. The EMP supported: (a) establishment of an
Environmental Unit in MED; (b) environmental training for MED staff at a variety of levels; (c)
use of site-specific environmental review procedures for pumping station rehabilitation
activities; (d) support for water quality monitoring; and (e) measures to apply water quality


                                                                                                13

guidelines for the reuse of drainage effluent at mixing stations. The EMP was implemented by
MED with the support of individual consultants and the Drainage Research Institute (DRI).

Monitoring of environmental parameters is now a routine activity within MED. However, there
are no reports showing, for example, if and how water quality problems have arisen and have
been mitigated. Highly saline drainage water cannot be used to irrigate salt sensitive crops, but
it can be used on salt tolerant crops, trees, bushes and fodder crops. A major concern in reuse is
that drainage water is often highly concentrated, requiring careful management. For this,
environmental monitoring and evaluation are very important.

The project is seen to have had positive environmental and social impacts, including energy
savings (estimated at US$ 3 million per year), greater equity in access to reliable irrigation
water, removal of debris from canals, improved soil productivity through timely evacuation of
drainage water, and reduced exposure to water-borne health hazards. The project also supported
an intensive "work safety" awareness program for technicians and operators of the pumping
stations. Safety tools have been provided to all operators and technicians and safety signs have
been installed.


Fiduciary (procurement and financial management)

The Bank mainly financed the supply of electro-mechanical equipment and auxiliary equipment
for the pumping stations, and logistical support equipment for the decentralized O&M
directorates and emergency centers. Almost all this equipment was imported because it was
unavailable in Egypt. The following table summarizes the number of contracts which were
financed by the loan by procurement method:

                         Procurment method                No of     Total amount
                                                        Contracts    US$ million
                International Commpititive Bidding         27            60.6
                Direct Contract                            17           33.67
                National Commptitive Bidding                1            1.52
                Local Shopping                              1            1.14
                                Total                      46           96.93


Procurement was according to the Bank's standard bidding document for the "Supply and
Installation of Plant and Equipment". Procurement of spare parts was based on direct contracts
with original manufacturers. The electro-mechanical equipment delivered was according to
bidding specifications and in line with international and national standards such as International
Organization for Standard Specification (ISO), British Standard (BS), German Standard (DIN) ,
International Electrical Commission (IEC) and National Electric Code (NEC). The civil works
for new pumping stations and buildings under the institutional support component (staff houses,
offices and emergency centers) were not financed by the Bank and were 100% financed by the
GOE contribution. The procurement of civil works followed the government's procurement
guideline and was done through a national competitive bidding method. By project closing date
not all the civil works contracts financed by the GOE have yet been completed and work is still
in progress.

The Bank supervision mission's field visits were very intensive. Most of the pumping stations
and decentralized O&M directorate offices were visited, including the emergency centers which
were supplied with logistical equipment and spare parts. During the ICR mission's field visits to
the Mariopolis pumping station (contract dated June 2001) it was found that a number of large
pumping units and transformers delivered in 2002 have not yet been installed and, moreover,
that their storage did not meet the required standards.


                                                                                               14

Financial management of the project followed the Bank's disbursement guidelines. The
implementation of financial management has however been moderately unsatisfactory. The
missions' aide-mémoires mention that project staffing at financial management level has been
consistently insufficient (i.e. with high turn-over of staff). They also mention that the
accounting systems did not enable efficient tracking of project expenditure along with
supporting documentation. The project's financial reports were not sufficient to provide a full
picture of project performance and costs. The reports only focused on the Bank's financing and
did not include the government's or KfW contributions. The project recording and reporting
was handled by the Project Coordinator, who maintained the project records and issued periodic
reports about the project's financial position. The project audits were carried out by the Central
Audit Organization and later during project implementation by private auditors. Audit reports
were submitted on time with few exceptions.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Most of the project investments relate to electro-mechanical equipment for the pumping stations.
These have been in operation for many years and operation plans have already been developed.
Decentralized O&M offices and five emergency centers have been equipped and strengthened
and spare parts for the project's pumping stations have been made available for the next five
years. However, MED will need to pay particular attention to ensure that all the 21 new
pumping stations civil works are completed as early as possible. MED will also need to finalize
the MIS and make it operational. For this purpose a Project Operation Plan will be required.
Efforts should be directed towards establishing better linkages with the Irrigation Department,
Drainage Authority and last but not least with the Ministry of Electricity and Energy, which is
implementing Energy Efficiency Programs including the auditing of energy consumption.
These programs have had some success so far in the domestic water supply and waste water
treatment pumping stations.

It is desirable that a follow-up project, with a different design, be considered to capitalize on
opportunities that have recently opened up under the government's IWRMP, including the
water sector reforms. Sustainable operation of the vital public infrastructure services, such as
irrigation and drainage pumping stations, will remain an important goal in an economy where
irrigated agriculture is of vital interest. A follow-up project could support a number of the
relevant outcomes of the IWRMP and the CAS namely: (a) enhancing the provision of public
services through improved efficiency of infrastructure, and (b) facilitating private sector
development through actions outlined in the IWRMP regarding empowering water users
associations, public-private participation and cost recovery of irrigation and drainage services.
In the Nile Delta drainage pumping stations will remain important public goods assets and will
"climate proof" the investments by helping to counter the effect of sea water intrusion through
the impact of the sea level rise predicted by different climate change scenarios for Egypt. The
most effective way to prevent or at least ameliorate sea water intrusion would be to continue to
grow rice in the areas adjacent to the northern shores by irrigation using mixed irrigation and
drainage water.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


Considering the continued contribution of agriculture to the country's economy, to employment,
and to reduction in rural poverty, the project's objectives were and still are highly relevant. This
is evident from the current CAS and the GOE's Integrated Water Resources Management Plan
(IWRMP), which focus on enhancing public infrastructure services. The objectives also
included strengthening MED's institutional capability in order to improve and optimize the



                                                                                                 15

operation and maintenance of the pumping stations and to ensure better sustainability of the
investments made under the project.

Project design included a substantial component relating to environmental monitoring mainly
by establishing an Environmental Unit, provision of equipment for water quality monitoring,
safety tools, awareness programs and capacity building. Despite the single source of water
supply, the water management and irrigation water delivery system is very complex and
depends largely on pumping. Pumping heads range from 5 to 50 meters to satisfy the irrigated
agriculture. Pumping of drainage water is also needed to control ground water levels and
salinity and to ensure conveyance of the drainage water through dedicated drainage channels
towards the sea.

Implementation arrangements for construction of new pumping stations proved to be
unsatisfactory. MED lacked the capacity to implement the new construction of pumping
stations, MIS and M&E subcomponents.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objectives # 1 and 2 were partially achieved. The project has improved the efficiency of
operation and maintenance of 104 irrigation and drainage pumping stations through complete
rehabilitation, partial replacement and provision of spare parts. These 104 pumping stations are
providing reliable irrigation water during peak water demand (i.e. about 40,000 liters per day per
feddan) and evacuating drainage water (between 10,000 to 8,000 liters per day per feddan) to
prevent the losses in crop yields of smallholders. The aggregate command or served area is about
2.4 million feddans, or 155% of the original target, as shown in the table below. The project would
further improve 21 irrigation and drainage pumping station after completion of the new pumping
stations serving an aggregate area of 533,000 feddans (Table 1 of Annex 2).

    Type of intervention    Number of Pumping Stations         Benefited Area (feddan)   Actual Cost
                            Irrigation Drainage    Total   Irrigation Drainage     Total Million (US$)
New construction                13        8         21     189,000    344,300    533,300     72.3
Complete rehabilitation         19        5         24     126,780    501,000    627,780
                                                                                             24.9
Partial replacement             19        6         25     359,800    449,750    809,550
Provision of Spare parts        41       14         55     652,480    316,250    968,730      31
           Total                92       33         125    1,328,060 1,611,300 2,939,360    128.2


The overall impact on efficient energy use has been positive and exceeds the appraisal
expectations. New equipment and spare parts have increased the operational efficiency of
motors and pumps and reduced the amount of maintenance required, resulting in immediate cost
savings. Estimated energy savings stemming from the project amount to about US$3 million
annually. Savings in maintenance costs are estimated at 5 and 1 percent of the capital costs of
rehabilitation and spare parts or US$1.55 million a year.

                                    Increase in efficient Energy Use


          Type of intervention             Pumping Station         Annual Energy Savings
                                      Irrigation     Drainage                  (US$)
      Complete rehabilitation            + 22%          + 10%                 624,637
      Partial replacement                + 13%           + 5%               1,376,690
      Provision of Spare parts            + 9%           + 7%               1,054,593
                   Total                                                    3,055,920




                                                                                               16

The project is generating agricultural benefits. The weighted average of the net agricultural
benefits is estimated at about US$42/feddan in the case of improved drainage pumping stations,
and at US$26 for irrigation pumping stations. At full development, when the new pumping
stations have been completed, it is envisaged that the incremental benefits of the project would
be US$54 million annually which is lower than estimated at appraisal (US$ 69 million/year)

Objectives # 3, strengthening further the planning and O&M capability of the MED to
enhance the sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system, was partially achieved. This is
mainly because the MIS system is not yet operational (see Annex 2) and because of
shortcomings in monitoring and evaluation aspects. The strengthening of central workshops and
laboratories together with the supply of spare parts for pumping stations have reduced the O&M
costs and improved pumping efficiencies. Despite the shortcomings in M&E it is possible to
infer that the four components of the project contributed directly to improved quality of the
level of irrigation and drainage services summarized as follows:


  Service quality                     Irrigation                                  Drainage
Adequacy            Ability to meet water demand for optimal     Ability to dispose excess water in
                    plant growth                                 minimal time to prevent damage
Reliability         Confidence in supply of water                Confidence in ability to dispose excess
                                                                 water
Equity              Fair distribution of share of water shortage Fair distribution of risks
                    risks and minimize the head and tail equities
                    (poverty aspect)
Flexibility         Ability to choose the frequency, rate and    Ability to choose the time, rate and
                    duration of supply                           duration of drainage water disposal



3.3 Efficiency

The costs per feddan for new construction, complete and partial replacement and the provision
of spares are summarized below. The unit cost per feddan for the spare parts was higher than for
partial or complete replacement because enough spare parts (i.e. because of customized nature
of the pumps) had been provided for about five years operation. About 14 pumping stations
were provided with spare parts in addition to being subject to rehabilitation (either partial or
complete).


          Type of intervention             Benefited area       Actual Cost           Cost per
                                               feddan           Million (US$)      feddan (US$)
      New construction1/                       533,300              72.3                 136
      Complete rehabilitation                  627,780
                                                                    24.9                  17
      Partial replacement                      809,550
      Provision of Spare parts                 968,730               31                   32
                    Total                    2,939,360             128.2                  44

      Note 1: civil works are under implementation



The recalculated economic rate of return (ERR) is 13.9% compared with 30% at appraisal
(Annex 3). The net present value using a discount rate of 12% would be US$19.6 million
against the US$136.26 million estimated at appraisal. The ERR has been calculated over a 20
year period from the project start-up (January 2001).



                                                                                                       17

                                      Economic Results
                                         ERR                  NPV
                        PAD              30%           US$136.26 million
                         ICR            13.9%           US$ 19.6 million

The main reason for the lower than expected ERR is the poor performance of the project's main
sub-component: the new constructions originally foreseen have been reduced in numbers from
32 to 21 due to civil works being delayed beyond any reasonable implementation time. The
corresponding loan funds were reallocated to the purchase of spare parts. Because of poor and
delayed development of the project MIS and M&E activities, the bases for estimating project
agricultural production benefits and of cost reduction in operation and maintenance are still
rather weak. Because of the lack of solid M&E data, expected benefits were estimated on a
conservative basis as outlined in Annex 3.

Sensitivity Analysis

A sensitivity analysis was performed. In the first case, it was assumed that the benefiting
command area was 30% smaller (about 2.06 million feddans instead of the 2.94 million feddans
registered by MED). In the second case, it was assumed that the partial replacement of pumping
stations and the provision of spare parts did not create agricultural benefits, keeping only the
benefits from the new construction and complete rehabilitation components. In the first case,
the ERR drops to 9.9%. In the second case, the ERR drops to 10.5%.




                                                                                             18

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

At project closing the overall rating is considered moderately satisfactory as summarized below.


                                                      Cost US$ million               Project           Weight       Contribution
                  Components                                                       Outcome1/            Over         to PDO
                                                      Appraisal    Actual      Rating     Value         Actual        Value
                                                                                                          %
 1- Rehabilitation of pumping stations                 214.43       139.4
 i) Construction of new stations                         125        72.3          U         2             37          0.75

 ii) Complete rehabilitation                             67         24.9          S         5             13          0.64
 iii) Provision of spare parts                           15           31          S         5             16          0.80
 iv) Provisions for five Emergency
 Centers                                                  7         11.2          S         5              6           0.29
 2- Strengthening Central workshops                    10.87         9.5          S         5              5           0.24
 and laboratories
 3- Institutional support for MED                      23.72        40.9
 i) Developing an integrated MIS                          3          6.8         MU         3              4           0.11
 ii) Establishing an Environmental Unit                   3          2.1          S         5              1           0.05
 iii) Provision of buildings, equipment                  18           32          S         5             17          0.83
 and vehicles
 4- Capacity building for MED                            3.4         4.1
 i) Provision of technical assistance                    2.3         2.4          S         5              1           0.06
 ii) Provision of training                               1.1         1.7          S         5              1           0.04
                       Total                           252.42       193.9        MS                                    3.8


 Note 1: Satisfactory (S)=5; Moderately Satisfactory (MS)=4; Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)=3; Unsatisfactory (U)=2;


The project is still under implementation by GOE and KfW. It is recommended that the project
be evaluated 24-36 months after loan closure. Points of specific focus should be: (1) the
timeliness and quality of the completion of the new pumping stations which are under progress;
(2) operation and maintenance plans of new pumping stations; and (3) the use of the
management information system.

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was very important in combating poverty and in generating employment given that
two-thirds of the poorest people in Egypt lives in rural areas. The number of rural farm families
benefiting from the project is estimated at one million which is more than the appraisal estimate
of 700,000. The incremental benefits on farm family income range between 6 to 10 percent
(Annex 3). Construction works have generated employment and so will the operation and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage pumping stations. Direct benefits can also be attributed
to the employment of the national contracting industry in the construction of the new pump
stations which, although delayed and currently about 70% completed, will have participated in
the provision of experience and expertise for this vital national industry and its staff. In addition
considerable experience to the consulting engineering profession which will have participated
in the design and supervision of the civil works for the station


                                                                                                                      19

The other direct employment impact would be on agricultural growth through production,
consumption and labor market linkages.

The project has also the potential to reduce equity disparities between head-end and tail-end
farmers through better access to reliable irrigation water by improved pumping stations.

Evacuation of drainage water has also a broad range of positive impacts on social development
through improved water quality and reduced exposure to water-borne health hazards.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project was implemented directly by the MED without any separate project implementation
unit. The Directorate of the Environment (DOE) was upgraded to a General Directorate of
Environment. This is a major step towards ensuring that environmental concerns will be
streamlined into MED's operations. In addition the Central Directorate for Projects was
upgraded to a Sector Directorate Level. More than 200 persons have so far been trained on
subjects related to operation and maintenance of electro-mechanical equipment. Most of the
training was provided by the suppliers and manufactures of equipment and through the
environmental sub-component. The large training program undertaken under the project has
insured that adequate staff is trained to carry out efficient O&M programs. Serious
shortcomings were the failure to introduce the MIS and monitoring and evaluation at an early
stage.

The recommendations from the cost recovery and privatization studies have been incorporated
into the Bank-executed Private Sector Participation (PPP) action plan for MED. In this context,
MED has expressed interest in pursuing the conceptual models to be developed, forming a
specialized PPP committee.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

In the Nile Delta the rehabilitated drainage pumping stations will remain an important asset and
will "climate proof" the investments by helping to counter the effect of sea water intrusion
through the impact of the sea level rise predicted by different climate change scenarios for
Egypt. The project contributed in sustaining a vibrant, efficient, private sector driven and export
oriented commercial farming community, generated significant employment and contributed to
overall economic growth and prosperity of the country.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risks to the development outcome are modest. The project has provided good quality and
more efficient electromechanical equipment, has strengthened the decentralized O&M
directorates and established five emergency units. Another positive aspect is that enough spare
parts for the pumping stations which are not locally available have been supplied for at least the
next five years.

The Government is committed through annual budgetary allocations to operating and
maintaining the pumping stations as they are critical for the survival of agriculture. After
reviewing the MED's O&M budget for the last four years, the ICR mission noted that
allocations are generally adequate. The analysis also showed that most of the operating costs are
mainly for energy consumption. The allocation of funds to maintenance activities is however
small and the system is subject to contingency repairs. Neither the MIS nor the M&E effort has



                                                                                                20

as yet been sufficiently integrated into the regular organizational pattern to sustain benefits in
the longer term.

Cost recovery measures are proposed in the most recent IWRM plan. Equally important are the
proposed actions related to the use of Public Private Partnerships (PPP) to enhance efficiency
and sustainability of integrated water resources management.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performances

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Bank performance has been moderately unsatisfactory in project preparation and appraisal. The
project was not ready in terms of land acquisition and readiness of MED in establishing an
M&E unit and MIS. The Bank was also overoptimistic with regard to the construction of new
pumping stations.

(b) Quality of Supervision

The supervision missions were carried out regularly. Supervision missions rightly reduced the
number of new pumping stations after realizing there were major difficulties with land
acquisition and the capacity of MED in design and implementation of civil works. Generally,
the missions were helpful to project implementation but often took too optimistic a view of
project implementation progress and achievement of development objectives, which is the basic
reason for the different rating given in the ICR. The Bank's supervision missions called for
"turnkey" contracts to speed up the construction of the new pumping stations. However, this
was recommended only four years after the start of the project. It would have been desirable for
the Task Team to have invited an agronomist, IT or MIS specialist and an institutional specialist
to participate in some of the supervision missions. Bank missions in the last years of
implementation were effective in introducing the public-private partnership concept in
operation and maintenance of the pumping stations. The relationship between the Borrower,
KfW and the Bank was satisfactory. KfW participated in several missions including the mid-
term review missions.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The Bank together with the German Development Bank (KfW) continues to facilitate
institutional strengthening of MRWI through continued dialogues with the GOE. The Bank's
PPIAF study highlighted the need for the public-private partnership in operation and
maintenance of the pumping stations. The Bank extended the project by 18 months. However,
if the Bank had extended the project, which was continued beyond the closing date by KfW and
GOE, by two further years, so that the new construction of pumping stations and MIS
subcomponents could have been completed, the outcome of the project should have been more
satisfactory.

Overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance




                                                                                               21

The Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) was supportive to the project and the
ownership and commitment were established at the identification and preparation stage. The
MWRI maintained cordial and good working relationships throughout the project
implementation. The minister of MWRI himself was always highly interested in the project and
in resolving major issues such as in the design and preparation of the Management Information
System sub-component. The government was less effective in resolving issues related to land
acquisition, construction delays, and lack of coordination between relevant departments
implementing irrigation and drainage projects. The government did not maintain a Special Task
Team as stipulated in the loan agreement.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The Mechanical and Electrical Department (MED) was directly involved in project
identification and has provided sufficient staff inputs in carrying out project identification as
well as project preparation. The MED managed successfully to improve the operation and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage stations. It is a credit to MED that it is able to maintain
stations which are 30 to 40 years old with reasonable efficiency without major complaints from
the Irrigation Department and farmers.

Continuity of senior staff was good and there was only one project coordinator for the entire
duration of the project. There was remarkable improvement in the performance of MED's
General Directorate of Environment during the later stage of project implementation. Less
positive have been major deficiencies in the implementation of civil works, and the supply of
electromechanical equipment for pumping stations that were not yet completed or even started,
financial managements, the implementation of the MIS sub-component and attention paid to
M&E activities. The project was implemented largely without coordination with the Irrigation
Department.

Overall Borrower Performance: This is rated moderately satisfactory.



6. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from implementation of the project are as follows:

1- There was a need for this project and there is still a need for further modernization of
    existing irrigation and drainage pumping stations and for improved operation and
    maintenance program. However, ensuring that rehabilitated irrigation and drainage
    pumping stations are sustainable in the long term should be the first priority in the design of
    any such project.
2- Use of "turnkey" or "Design-Build-Operate-Transfer" contracts will potentially involve less
    complication than having two separate contracts of which one for electromechanical
    equipment and one for civil works. It would avoid such things as the arrival of electro-
    mechanical equipment without the related civil works being ready for installation of the
    equipment.
3- A repeater project such as this (this was the third project) with a simplified project design
    should not be at the expense of dealing with broader and longer term issues. All features of
    water use for agriculture should be considered, rather than only the most urgent repair work
    to the infrastructure itself, and the need for institution strengthening should be looked at, as
    well as the possibility of irrigation management transfer and public-private partnership
    arrangements which are essential for sustainability of irrigation and drainage assets. Some
    provision should be made in the budget and flexibility should be introduced in project
    design so that these issues may be properly addressed during later stages of implementation
    when the most urgent repair works have been done.



                                                                                                 22

4- The process of establishing an MIS and M&E unit should start ahead of project
    implementation. A baseline survey is needed to appreciate the incremental impact of
    project-induced changes.
5- The importance of good planning of project implementation cannot be overstressed. For
    instance, the fact that a certain time is needed for acquisition of land and procurement in
    accordance with Bank guidelines has been well known for many years, yet still such a
    factor has been the cause of serious delay.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (unedited)

The project which was designed as the third Bank-financed project supporting the
Government's strategic plan for rehabilitation of the pumping stations along the Nile Valley and
Delta water management system achieved considerable favorable results as outlined throughout
the ICR. Likewise, a number of lessons were learned to further improve progress during
implementation.

While in general the ratings presented in the ICR are indicative of the project progress and
situations faced during the implementation period, it is important to note that while the Bank's
contribution to the project was closed on the 31st of August 2007, the project as a whole is still
under implementation by the Government. It is expected that all project activities currently
under implementation will be completed by the end of 2008. This will significantly add to the
project's benefits as well as progress on achievement of the final project outcomes.

The initial loan closure date was extended from the initial date of 28 February 2005 to
31 August 2007. While further extension was not possible by the Bank, it would have been
favorable to allow for completion of all components within the loan duration. Accordingly a
total amount of US$ 20 million was cancelled from the loan as outlined in the Borrower's
section of the ICR.

With regards to discharge measurements at the pumping stations, even though it was not
included within the initial project design, it was implemented throughout as per MED's norms
of requiring discharge measurement tools in the bidding documents of all new stations.

As presented throughout the ICR a number of major factors throughout the implementation
period caused severe delays with regards to the new construction pumping stations. While the
national procurement law (no. 89 for the year 1998) has been revised and now includes a
provision for price adjustments ­which was identified as one of the delay factors particularly
with the devaluation of the Egyptian currency- one of the major lessons learned during
implementation is to adopt a Turn Key approach, combining both civil and electro-mechanical
works, for the tendering of new pumping stations.

Towards the end of the loan closure period, the Turn Key method was utilized for the tendering
of the four stations of West Tahta 1, 2, 3 and 4. Follow up on these contracts is showing
favorable results compared to those achieved with the non-Turn Key approach.

Another element that was delayed in implementation was the completion of the Management of
Information System (MIS). An initial tendering process had to be cancelled during the
Invitation for Bids stage following the Minister's instructions to implement an MIS system that
is connected and compatible with the one used throughout the MWRI. During that time the
Bank team worked closely with the project team at MED and even provided an MIS consultant
to work with the team in formulating the technical specifications and bidding documents needed
for the new tendering.



                                                                                              23

With the loan closed and pending items nearing completion, it would be of considerable benefit
if the Bank continued its engagement in the Government's long-term program for rehabilitation
of major pumping stations throughout Egypt's irrigation and drainage networks.


(b) Cofinanciers

The Draft ICR report was submitted to the cofinancier KfW for their comments. KfW did not
have any comments to the contents and performance ratings. However, KfW provided valuable
comments concerning their contribution to the project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                                                          24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



                                             Appraisal      Actual/Latest
          Components                     Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD     Percentage of

                                              millions)        millions)        Appraisal

Rehabilitation of pumping
stations                                         214             139.4             65

Strengthening central workshops
and laboratories                                  11                9.5            87

Institutional support for MED                     24               40.9           172
Capacity building for MED                           3.4             4.1           121
        Total Project Costs                      252.4           193.9




(b) Financing



                                              Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage
           Source of Funds                     Estimate
                                                 (USD      Estimate        of

                                               millions) (USD millions) Appraisal

Government of Egypt                              103.8      65.4          63
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   120       99.5          83

Germany - KfW1/                                   28.6        29          101
                  Total                          252.4      193.9

Note 1: KfW contribution was about 24.03 million Euro.




                                                                                           25

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Rehabilitation of pumping stations (Actual cost 139.4 US$ million, 72% of
total cost).

      (i)       The project provided for supply and installation of electromechanical equipment
                and auxiliary equipment for 21 new pumping stations (13 irrigation and 8
                drainage) to replace existing, old and dilapidated stations. Or, in some cases,
                because of the remodeled irrigation and drainage systems, the pumping
                capacities had to be increased due to modified lifts dictated by altered water
                levels. The Government is financing all civil works and parts of the auxiliary
                equipment manufactured in Egypt. None of these 21 stations have been
                completed. Civil works are in progress (Table 1).

        (ii)    Complete or partial rehabilitation of 49 pumping stations to replace all of the
                electromechanical equipment within existing buildings with rehabilitation of the
                building itself, inlet and outlet works. The project provided for supply and
                installation of electro-mechanical equipment, auxiliary equipment and
                rehabilitation of existing buildings including inlet and outlet works.       The
                Government financed all rehabilitation works and parts of auxiliary equipment
                manufactured in Egypt.

        (iii)   Supply of spare parts for repairs to 55 irrigation and drainage pumping stations.
                The project provided for supply and installation of spare parts. The spare parts
                are from the original manufacturers (Hungary, Japan, USA, Switzerland and
                Germany)

        (iv)    The project supplied mobile pumps, motors and generators of various capacities
                (diesel and electric) for five emergency centers, two existing and three new. The
                Government financed the construction of buildings and other facilities for these
                centers, which are located at: Mariut No. 2 Pumping Station in North West
                Delta; Kafr El Sheikh in Middle Delta; El-Wadi in East Delta; Beni Suef in
                Middle Egypt; and Naga Hammadi in Upper Egypt.




Component 2: Strengthening Central Workshops and Electrical Laboratories
(Actual cost US$ 9.5 million, 5% of the total cost)

Existing electrical and mechanical workshop and regional directorates were strengthened
through the provision of equipment including mobile electrical laboratory equipment and
mobile mechanical workshops. The following has been supplied: 16 telescopic cranes (30 to 45
tons) and 5 boom cranes including spare parts (US$5.8 million); 33 fork lifts (3 to 5 tons) and 5
backhoe loaders (1 m3 capacity), for a total sum of US$0.9 million; weed screens cleaning
machines which prevent debris from entering into the pumps (US$0.8 million); and 100 grease
filling devices (estimated costs US$1.2 million). These equipments are facilitating the effective
operation of these workshops and laboratories. Loan funds were mainly used for specialized
workshop and laboratories equipment and heavy-duty equipment which was not available
locally. The project provided support to the MED headquarters through provision of utility
vehicles, four fully equipped mobile laboratories including a vehicle, equipment for diagnostic
and inspection purposes and basic equipment for water quality testing and analysis.




                                                                                              26

Component 3: Institutional support (US$ 40.9 million, 21% of total actual cost)

The major part of this component was financed only by GOE. It included civil works for staff
housing, workshops, stores and field offices. In addition this component covered rehabilitation of
regional offices (i.e. for operation and maintenance). Total estimated actual cost is about
US$ 31 million. No detailed breakdown in square meters of new or rehabilitated buildings is
available.

The Management Information System (MIS) was established on a pilot scale under Pumping
Stations Rehabilitation Project I (Ln.2270-EGT) and was expanded to cover all of the major
activities of MED under Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project II (Ln.3198-EGT). It was
proven to be a good management tool and the plan was to modernize and expand the MIS under
this third project to various field regional offices, major pumping stations, stores, workshops and
laboratories. At the start of the project the MED faced considerable problems with the
preparation of TORs, specifications, bidding packages and tendering process. The process of
implementing an MIS is summarized below.

MIS Contract Details:

   -    Request for Proposals issuance:                             September 2005
   -    No objection:                                               April 2006
   -    Issuance of purchase order:                                 June 2006
   -    Contract effectiveness:                                     January 2007
   -    Contract completion period:                                 14 month
   -    Contract completion date:                                   March 2008

Contract Cost:

  - Delivery CIF of equipment:                                      US$ 2,660,412
  - Installation, local deliveries, local works and training:       LE 11,012,756
  - Sites preparation, furnishing and supply of AC units:           LE 13,051,160

 There is a provision for technical support for a period of one year after system introduction
 (acceptance). Provisions are also made for system maintenance during the guarantee period of
 three years. To ensure successful operation of the system, the MED is now negotiating with the
 Contractor for extending the technical support for another two years. The MED is planning to
 outsource the operation and maintenance of the MIS to the Contractor until it is sure that MED
 engineers and operators will be able to run the system efficiently.

 Progress at project closure is summarized below:

 · All hardware and software has been delivered.
 · MED headquarters:
              o All civil and architectural works are completed.
              o All computer facilities, fixtures and furnishings have been supplied and
                   installed.
 · Regional Offices, workshops, storehouses, emergency centers and major pumping stations:
              o Completion of civil and architectural works is about 60%.
              o Training component is 70% complete.

 Telemetry has not been established except in a couple of pumping stations independently of the
 project on a trial basis. The MED had agreed to establish a Monitoring and Evaluation unit
 which would have focused on a selective basis on monitoring the efficiency of pumps before
 project improvements and would have continued to monitor the efficiency after installation of



                                                                                                27

new electro-mechanical equipment. The energy consumption was also to be monitored. This
M&E unit, however, was not established.

Component 4: Technical Assistance and Training (US$ 4.1 million, 2% of the total cost)

Technical assistance and training focused on which was either new to MED or where expertise is
needed to broaden the scope of knowledge of the MED staff. Technical Assistance (TA) included
a consultancy assisting MED (7 person-months; US$30,000), ii) the preparation of the MTR
Report (9 person-months; US$16,500); iii) auditing services (10 person-months; US$10,000); and
iv) the cost recovery and the privatization studies (8 person-months; US$34,000). In addition, a
number of TA activities were/are undertaken under the civil works and electro-mechanical
contracts (total of 5 person-months) such as: testing and inspection of electro-mechanical
equipment and hydraulic & structural surveys. MED also spent about US$40,000 equivalent for
conducting water quality analysis (by the Drainage Research Institute - DRI) and another
US$40,000 for preparing an environmental strategy, all that using its own funds.

The recommendations from the cost recovery and privatization studies have now been
incorporated into the Bank-executed Private Sector Participation (PPP) action plan for MED. In
this context, MED has expressed great interest in pursuing the conceptual models to be developed,
forming a specialized PPP committee and, during the mission, hosted a workshop to review the
interim report of the PPIAF consultants with the Bank team. The PPP concepts have now been
further developed in line with the Ministry's movement forward in this direction and a planned
preparation by MED of PPP pilot activities is now being considered.

Local training using counterpart funds: Since the year 2000, about 600 of MED employees were
trained at the MWRI Training Institute in Cairo on several major themes such as O&M, fire
prevention, program logic control and technical inspection

Overseas training has been provided by suppliers of electro-mechanical equipment through the
projects' goods contracts. About 222 persons have been trained on subjects related to operation
and maintenance of electro-mechanical equipment. This training amounts to a total of 705 staff-
weeks, with half of those consisting of overseas training which has been provided for a total cost
of about US$1.9 million through the procurement of goods contracts.




                                                                                           28

                     Table 1: Status of New Irrigation and Drainage Pumping Stations


                              Electro-mechanical Contract          Civil Works Contract GOE financed

     Station Name         Foreign       Local                    Cost              Estimated
                          Portion      Portion    Equipment     Million  Contract  Completion  Progress

                           U.S.$        L.E         Delivery     L.E      Award        Date       %

Wadi Abadi 1             492,652     2,183,701 April-05          9.4     May-04    Jun-08         90
Wadi Abadi 2             466,582     1,309,824 April-05          5.6     Apr-04    Jun-08         90
Wadi Abadi 3             466,582     1,309,824 April-05          4.1     Apr-04    Sep-08         86
Wadi Abadi 4             492,652     2,183,701 April-05          4.4     Apr-04    Jun-08         85
Bani saleh               780,000     1,466,380 June-05           5.9     May-04    Aug-08         60
El-Nasr No.4             5,511,533 7,066,309 September-04        16.5    Jan-05    Jul-08         83
Deir Abo Hennes Intake   439,825     2,003,397 July-07           5.5     Sep-06    Nov-08         22
Deir Abo Hennes Inner    304,975     2,397,219 July-07           2.7     Sep-06    Nov-08         10
Zawyet Soltan            237,412     1,672,798 July-07            7      Sep-06    Nov-08         36
Sharawna                 468,764     2,013,836 July-07           8.2     Sep-06    Nov-08         15
El-Gharak 1              588,910     3,268,790 January-07         10     Jun-05    Jul-08         20
El-Gharak 2              1,377,964 3,821,004 March-07             10     Jul-05    Aug-08         20
El-Gharak 3              1,520,260 3,928,015 March-07             10     Jul-05    Aug-08         40
West Tahta 1             643,009     4,310,765 April-06         16.25    Sep-05    Dec-08         30
West Tahta 2             499,857     4,313,994 April-06         16.25    Sep-05    Dec-08         85
West Tahta 3             499,857     4,313,994 April-06         16.25    Sep-05    Dec-08         50
West Tahta 4             434,922     3,917,246 April-06         16.25    Sep-05    Dec-08         65
Deir Al-Sankouria        1,880,860 3,546,353 October-05          10.2    Oct-04    Jun-08         75
Drain no. 1              2,305,113 3,035,716 November-06         15.1    Feb-05    Feb-05         45
Drain no.3               1,803,448 3,939,762 December-05         14.5    Feb-05    Feb-05         80
Hafer Shehab El-Din      2,207,112 4,405,121 December-05         14.4    Feb-05    Feb-05         69




                                                                                         29

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


In the context of Egypt's overall agricultural and economic policy, the strategic focus on
agricultural export sector is crucial because of the potentially large positive impact on Egypt's
rural sector via higher farm incomes, sector-wide rural economic growth, and increased
employment opportunities1. In turn, this would induce better living standards in rural areas
which, despite substantial migration rates to urban areas, are currently still inhabited by about
55% of Egypt's population. MED's irrigation and drainage (I&D) pumping stations (PS) are
critical to the survival of Egypt's agricultural economy. The adequate functioning of irrigation
PSs is important to ensuring timely availability of Nile water for farming and for assuring
dependable supplies during periods of peak demand. Equally vital is the adequate functioning of
drainage PSs to enable the evacuation of drainage water to prevent excessive water and salinity.
Without adequately functioning I&D facilities, agricultural production and consequently
exports would fall and food imports would rise.

According to the PAD the project would have two main beneficial impacts: (i) losses prevention
in crop yields by ensuring adequate supply of irrigation water and provision of adequate
drainage during peak periods (June-August); and (ii) reduction of the unit cost of water pumped
by improving the efficiency of the PSs, resulting in fiscal savings through reduced expenditures
on O&M. Based on reasonable assumptions, the PAD envisaged that the project would benefit a
total of about 498,595 fed through rehabilitation of irrigation PSs, and 1,049,550 fed through
rehabilitation of drainage PSs, resulting in a total of about 1.55 million fed benefiting under the
project. With average size of land holding per farm equivalent to about 2 fed, about 700,000
farm families would benefit from the project.

The PAD noted that there were limitations in drawing precise conclusions on the relationship
between water table levels, irrigation deliveries, drainage performance and yields. So, it states
that it was difficult to come up with a precise calculation of the effects on agricultural
production of the declining performance of PSs, because crop yields are a function of several
interrelated factors (technology, inputs, cultural practices and farm management). Although
there is no single causal factor for yield changes, especially under real field conditions, it was
correctly recognized that, without adequate water and/or drainage conditions, crops suffering
from water stress or excess would have consequent reductions in yields. Hence, the on-going
reduced performance of I&D PSs, particularly during critical periods, would have an increasing
adverse effect on crop yields.

The PAD calculations revealed that the average annual incremental benefits (from avoiding
crop losses) due to complete rehabilitation (CR) or new construction (NC) of PSs in the three
regions of the Delta, Middle Egypt and Upper Egypt would be about US$85 per fed for
irrigation and about US$35 per fed for drainage. The benefits per feddan for spare parts (SP)
were estimated at US$10 per annum. A total of 1.55 million fed would benefit under the
project. At full development; i.e., by 2007, it was envisaged that the total agricultural benefits
from the project (based on crop loss prevention) would be US$69 million annually. Based only
on the agricultural benefits calculations for the economic rate of return to the project showed it
to be in the order of 30% and the NPV US$136.26 million.

Base Assumptions for the ICR Analysis

Because of poor and delayed development of the project MIS and M&E activities, the bases for
estimating the scope for improvements for the project in terms of pumping performance, of



1Poverty was estimated in 19.6% in FY05 with half of the poor in Egypt living in upper rural region.



                                                                                                       30

resulting production benefits, and of cost reductions are still rather weak. No detailed feasibility
studies were undertaken of the pumps before project interventions and reliable data on the
baseline and current performance of the project enhanced PSs in terms of water delivered,
down-time, and O&M costs is generally lacking. The key measure of performance is the
efficiency of the pumping system. This is in principle measured by the Mechanical and
Electrical Research Institute every 3 years, but no routine monitoring or analysis has been
carried out to establish the impact of rehabilitation or supply of spare parts on efficiency.
Similarly, costs of O&M are not routinely monitored. There is even some doubt about the
accuracy of the areas served by each PS. In spite of the mentioned lack of solid data, expected
benefits were estimated on a conservative basis. The assumptions used for this ICR evaluation
of project benefits are as follows:

(i) Benefited areas were considered for each improved PS assuming the respective MED
declared command area. Total area served by the project 125 supported PSs (21 NC, 24 CR, 25
PR, and 55 SP) reached 2.9 million fed (1.3 million fed from improved irrigation PSs and 1.6
million fed from drainage PSs). The following table summarizes the type of PS improvement,
the investment involved and the area served by each of the project programs.

Table 1 Number and Type of PSs, Investments and Area served per program.

        Program                     No. of PSs                 Investment          Benefited Area (fed)
       Type of PS             Irrigation    Drainage      Irrigation  Drainage     Irrigation    Drainage
New Construction                  13            8            US$ 72.3 million       189,000      344,300
Complete Rehabilitation           19            5                                   126,780      501,000
Partial Rehabilitation            19            6            US$ 24.9 million       359,800      449,750
Spare Parts                       41           14             US$ 31 million        652,480      316,250
Emergency Centers                                            US$ 11.2 million
Other components                                             US$ 54.5 million
Total                             92           33           US$ 193.9 million      1,328,060    1,611,300
Note: About 14 PSs which were provided with spare parts have been also rehabilitated by the project. To
avoid double counting for the estimation of benefits, their command area was only considered as CR or
PR.

Regarding the type of improvement the area benefiting from the 21 NC PSs was estimated at
533,300 feddans (189,000 feddans from Irrigation PS sand 344,300 feddans from drainage PSs).
Given the delays being experienced in carrying out the NC civil works, benefits for these 21
PSs have been delayed until 2008 and 2009 reflecting the expected completion dates of works
as well as the build-up of benefits in crop yields. Agricultural area benefiting from the CR of
PSs was estimated at 627,780 fed (126,780 feddans from irrigation PSs and 501,000 feddans
from drainage PSs). The PR program command areas cover about 809,450 fed (359,800 fed
from irrigation PSs and 449,750 fed from drainage PSs); and the SP program reaches about 0.97
million feddans (0.65 million from irrigation PSs and 0.32 million fed from drainage PSs). It is
noted that improved drainage PSs not only benefit through agricultural increased production,
but also to villages and infrastructure which may be flooded as a result of rising water tables,
excessive rainfall and climate change. Poor drainage also generates health problems associated
with pounded water such as water-borne diseases. These benefits are not quantified for this
assessment.

(ii) The analysis considered all actual project investment costs including complementary
subcomponents and components, calculated in constant 2006 dollars. Taxes and duties levied by
government on imports have been excluded from the costs, because they do not involve real
productive use of resources but only positive transfers to government. No adjustments were
made for the civil works and prevailing financial prices have been used to represent economic
prices.. Total costs are expected to reach US$193.9 million once the completion of unfinished



                                                                                                     31

works under the NC subcomponent is attained. Project costs are shown by year and component
in Table 2.

        Table 2 Project Actual Costs per Year and Component (in million US$)

                               2001     2002        2003        2004          2005      2006        2007       Total
Modernization of PS
 New Construction                 -       15          20          15           10          6         6.3        72.3
 Rehabilitation                  2.5       4           4          3.5           2          3         5.9        24.9
 Spare Parts                     8        6.5         3.5          7            6          -           -         31
 Emergency Centers                -        -           -          2.5           4         2.5        2.2        11.2
Central Workshops                 -        -           -         2.5            4          3           -         9.5
Institutional                     -        5          10           8           12          -         5.9        40.9
Support
Capacity Building                 -        1           -           2           0.5        0.6          -         4.1
Total                           10.5     31.5        37.5        40.5         37.5       15.1       20.3       193.9

(iii) The project is generating agricultural benefits through improved yields due to enhanced
delivery of irrigation water in quantity and timing, and also by better evacuation of drainage
water. Timely delivery and evacuation are totally dependent on the reliability of the PSs.
Reliability is critical during periods of peak demand for water and disruptions or
malfunctioning in I&D PSs would have deleterious effects on crop yields and reduce farm
incomes. The main impact of improved reliability and efficiency of pumping on irrigation PSs
is felt at peak periods when water supply is more plentiful and temporary shortages of water are
avoided. On drainage PSs the impact is felt both in summer and winter crops since they
correspond to the peak irrigation season in summer and to the rainy season in winter. The
regional average cropping pattern for each region in Egypt was assumed as shown in Table 4.
Yield increases were considered according to the nature of the project intervention in line with
actual or expected completion of civil works and equipment installation for each rehabilitated
PS.
(iv) For both I&D, it was assumed that field-level irrigation and drainage facilities are in
place: for drainage, for example, it was assumed that drainage laterals and collectors are
operating and the analysis only evaluates the effects on agricultural yields of investments in
major PSs (head works) situated on the main canals. It is widely accepted that one third of the
crop yields effects due to inadequate drainage can be attributed to the drainage PSs and two
thirds to the rest of the drainage system (on-farm subsurface drainage and inter farm collectors)

(v) Crop budgets under FARMOD framework were used for the analysis: the average
incremental yield of summer and perennial crops was conservatively taken to be 5% as result of
the NC and CR schemes of irrigation PSs2. For the Partial Rehabilitation (PR) and Spare Parts
(SP) schemes, the average incremental yield was assumed to be only 1% and 0.5% respectively
(20% and 10% of the benefits expected under the NC or CR programs). In arriving at the 5%
increase estimate, consideration has been given to FAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper No 33
"Yield Response to Water"3 and to the monitoring information of the Irrigation Improvement




2 Certain incremental variable costs such as harvesting and transport are also assumed to be incurred for the
incremental yield, as will additional pumping and irrigation costs at field level as compared with the without project
situation. These were estimated at no more than US$5/feddan.

3 According to FAO Paper 33, a 30% shortage of water applied to crops can lead to a reduction of 10% to 30% in
crop yields for different crops. A 20% shortage would be equivalent to 1 in 5 pumps failing at PS.



                                                                                                                    32

Project (IIP) recently completed4. In the case of NC and CR of drainage PSs, also a 5% yield
increase was considered, in this case for all summer and winter crops5. As in the case of
irrigation PSs, the enhanced drainage PSs under the PR and SP programs would have only 1%
and 0.5% yield increases. Estimated values of incremental net benefits/fed for the NC and CR
schemes are given in Tables 3 and 4. The weighted average of the net agricultural benefit was
estimated at about US$42/feddan in the case of improved drainage PSs and at US$26 for
irrigation PSs.




4Improved availability of water during the peak season allows for the reduction in time between irrigations. M&E of
IIP assessed the impact of applying continuous flow (CF) in improved areas on crop yield: the total yield per fed of
crops were compared in the areas with and without CF in Mahmoudia for the 2005 season. Yield of wheat varieties
were higher with CF than those without it except for Sakha 69. All yield of summer crops on farms with CF were
higher than those without CF. The increase in yield ranged between 11-38%.

5Under the Second National Drainage Program EPADP has been conducting the M&E (Progress Report No 11) of
establishing, enlarging and deepening of open drains and the rehabilitation of old drainage systems and infrastructure
works required, including PSs and siphons, to provide a water table depth of 2.5 m in the open drains to create an
adequate outflow of collaterals and to prevent the return of drainage water in the lateral drains. Crop production
increase during the studied period 1999­2006 ranged from 5­40% after four years of the rehabilitation of the
drainage systems (rice 30%, maize 40%, cotton 20%, wheat 5%, and beans 14%).



                                                                                                                   33

Table 3 Estimation of Project Incremental Benefits for Drainage PSs (NC or CR)

                                                                                     Incr.
Crop              Yield Economic Financial %cropping GrossRev           US$/fed     Revenue
                  t/ha    US$/t     US$/t       pattern     Economic    Financial   %   US$
Delta                                                                                  Econ.
Wheat              2.6     249        200        34%          220          177     5%    11
Broad bean        1.16     378        378         5%           22          22      5%     1
Berseem long      29.1     10          10        30%           87          87      5%     4
Berseem short     11.2     10          10        13%           15          15      5%     1
Winter Vegetable   9       70          70         9%           57          57      5%     3
Summer Vegetab     9.8     80          80        13%          102          102     5%     5
Cotton            1.08     621        478        14%           94          72      5%     5
Rice               1.3     217        175        35%           99          80      4%     4
Maize              2.6     211        150        30%          165          117     5%     8
Citrus             7.3     143        110         9%           98          75      5%     5
                  Total                          192%         958          804            47
                           Benefit net of incremental costs (US$5/feddan)                42
Middle Egypt
Wheat             2.28     249        200        36%          204          164     5%    10
Broad bean        1.16     378        378         4%           18          18      5%     1
Berseem long       28      10          10        30%           84          84      5%     4
Berseem short     10.8     10          10         9%           10          10      5%     0
Winter Vegetable    8      70          70        11%           62          62      5%     3
Summer Vegetab     10      80          80        14%          112          112     5%     6
Cotton            1.23     621        478        12%           92          71      5%     5
Sorghum           2.32     196        140         5%           23          16      2%     0
Soybean/Sunflower 1.23     407        380         8%           40          37      2%     1
Maize             2.66     211        150        50%          281          200     5%    14
Citrus             5.7     143        110         7%           57          44      5%     3
Sugar             47.44    32          28         3%           46          40      5%     2
                  Total                          189%         1027         856           49
                           Benefit net of incremental costs (US$5/feddan)                44
                          Weighted Average according to project interventions US$/fed    42
                                        (Delta 689,000 fed, Middle Eg. 167000 fed)




                                                                                    34

Table 4 Estimation of Project Incremental Benefits for Irrigation PSs (NC & CR)

Crop             Yield  Economic Financial Cropping GrossRev           US$/fed     Econ.Incr. Rev.
                 t/ha     US$/t       US$/t     pattern   Economic    Financial    %       US$
Delta                                                                                     Econ.
Wheat            2.6       249        200        34%        220           177                 0
Broad bean       1.16      378        378         5%         22           22                 0
Berseem l        29.1      10          10        30%         87           87                 0
Berseem s        11.2      10          10        13%         15           15                 0
Winter Veg         9       70          70         9%         57           57                  0
Summer Veget.    9.8       80          80        13%        102           102      5%        5
Cotton           1.08      621        478        14%         94           72       5%        5
Rice             1.3       217        175        35%         99           80       5%        5
Maize            2.6       211        150        30%        165           117      5%        8
Citrus           7.3       143        110         9%         98           75       5%        5
                 Total                           192%       958           804                28
                  Benefit net of incremental costs (US$5/feddan)                             23
Middle Egypt
Wheat            2.28      249        200        36%        204           164                 0
Broad bean       1.16      378        378         4%         18           18                 0
Berseem l         28       10          10        30%         84           84                  0
Berseem s        10.8      10          10         9%         10           10                  0
Winter Veg         8       70          70        11%         62           62                  0
Summer Veget      10       80          80        14%        112           112      5%        6
Cotton           1.23      621        478        12%         92           71       5%        5
Sorghum          2.32      196        140         5%         23           16       5%        1
Soybean/Sun      1.23      407        380         8%         40           37       5%        2
Maize            2.66      211        150        50%        281           200      5%        14
Citrus           5.7       143        110         7%         57           44       5%        3
Sugar            47.44     32          28         3%         46           40       5%        2
                 Total                           189%       1027          856                32
                  Benefit net of incremental costs (US$5/feddan)                             27
Upper Egypt
Wheat            2.28      249        200        41%        233           187                 0
Broad bean       1.16      378        378         4%         18           18                 0
Berseem l         28       10          10        16%         45           45                  0
Berseem s        10.8      10          10         3%          3            3                  0
Winter Veg         8       70          70         7%         39           39                  0
Summer Veget      10       80          80        11%         88           88       5%        4
Cotton           1.23      621        478         3%         23           18       5%        1
Sorghum          2.32      196        140        30%        136           97       5%        7
Soybean/Sun      1.23      407        380         0%          0            0       5%        0
Maize            2.66      211        150        28%        157           112      5%        8
Citrus           5.7       143        110         4%         33           25       5%        2
Sugar            47.44     32          28        25%        380           332      5%        19
                 Total                           172%       1154          964                41
                  Benefit net of incremental costs (US$5/feddan)                             36
                          Weighted Average according to project interventions US$/fed        26
                        (Delta 185,000 fed, Middle Eg. 216000 fed & Upper Eg. 27.000 fed)




                                                                                     35

(vi) Projected 2007-2010 economic prices for traded commodities had been used in constant
2006 dollars based on World Bank commodity price forecasts made in May 2007. Export
parity prices were computed for cotton, rice and citrus; and import parity prices were calculated
for wheat, maize and sugar cane6. For non-traded commodities, such as vegetables, berseem and
broad beans, and for traded and non-traded inputs, such as fertilizers and labor, the prevailing
financial prices have been used to reflect economic prices. A 1.75 conversion factor for
electricity was used considering the high subsidies on energy costs in Egypt. This factor is
based on a recent estimation of the economic cost of electricity at High Voltage connections
which was estimated at US$ 0.052 / kWh. This value was derived from a recent kWh pricing
that will be used for contracts with large industrial companies7.

(vii) Improved efficiency of PSs. There would be a reduction in hours pumping to deliver an
equivalent amount of water and in electricity consumption. Based on an average supply of
10,000 m3 per fed, the electricity cost saving was estimated at US$3 million per year in
economic values from a reduction in energy consumed. The economic cost of energy used was
US$0.052/kwh to cover the opportunity cost of the energy consumed as well as distribution and
transmission costs.

(viii) Savings in Maintenance: By replacing old equipment with new, the project should
reduce the requirements for repairs, although routine inspections and maintenance are still
needed. Costs of repairs and maintenance for pumping systems are generally reckoned to
amount to the equivalent of the initial capital cost of the equipment over the life of the
equipment. Costs tend to mount with age and, by renewing equipment, there will initially be a
substantial reduction in cost. Savings in maintenance costs are estimated at 5 and 1 percent of
the capital costs of rehabilitation and spare parts or US$1.55 million a year. The annual
estimated reduction in these costs for the 104 PSs (excluding the new pumping stations which
are still under progress) was estimated at US$1.55 million per year.

Financial analysis

Representative two fed farm models were prepared for illustrating the average situations of six
typical farms benefiting from the project. Two models correspond to each of the three main
regions (Delta, Middle and Upper Egypt). For each region one model represents the area
covered by the NC or CR schemes of irrigation PSs, and the second model the areas covered by
the NC or CR of drainage PSs. The financial expected benefit on family incomes was calculated
assuming only the crops grown taking the average regional cropping pattern. Family income
stemming from livestock activities which are present in almost all farms was not included in the
models. The following Table 5 summarizes such benefits stemming from the project
investments' improved farming conditions. In the case of irrigation PSs, the annual average
income increase would be US$38 per farm (6%), while for drainage PSs would reach
US$60/farm, since it also benefit the winter crops. For the PR and SP project interventions, the
expected benefit would be only 20% and 10% respectively, of the above mentioned income
increase.




6 Resulting conversion factors for switching from financial to economic prices resulted in 1.245 for wheat, 1.3 for
cotton and citrus, 1.24 for rice, 1.4 for maize and sorghum, 1.07 for soybean and 1.11 for sugarcane.

7Egypt is electrically connected to Jordan, Libya and Syria, and has exchanged electricity with the three countries in
2005/2006. The cost of kWh varied according to recent calculations between US$ 0.06 and 0.10/kWh.



                                                                                                                   36

 Table 5 Financial Impact of the Project in Benefited Family Farms (US$/farm)

                    Region               NC and CR of PSs        Increment per farm
                                         Before      After     In US$ / farm    In %
            Irrigation PSs
              Delta                       591         628           37            6
              Middle Egypt                792         835           43            5
              Upper Egypt                 855         903           48            6
              Weighted Average            630         668           38            6
            Drainage PSs
              Delta                       591         648           57            10
              Middle Egypt                792         857           65            8
              Upper Egypt                 855         925           70            8
              Weighted Average            630         690           60            10



Economic Rate of Return

Based on the foregoing assumptions, the ICR calculations carried out reveal that the average
incremental benefits per annum (from yield increases and/or avoiding crop losses) due to
project new constructions, rehabilitation or spare parts supplied to the 125 PSs in the three
regions of Delta, Middle Egypt and Upper Egypt will be about US$44 million per year once the
NC program completes their works and the new PSs are in full operation, by 2010. A total of
2.94 million fed would benefit under the project. At full development; it is envisaged that the
total agricultural gross value of production from the project would be US$54 million annually.
Fiscal annual savings in O&M costs include US$3 million in electricity consumption and
US$2.3 million in maintenance costs per annum in economic costs.

                                         Economic Results
                                           ERR                NPV
                         PAD                30%         US$136.26 million
                          ICR              13.9%          US$ 19.6 million

The ERR has been calculated over a 20 year period from the project start-up (January 2001).
The resulting rate is 13.9% which is positive but far below the 30% that was foreseen at
appraisal. The net present value using a discount rate of 12% would be US$19.6 million against
the US$136.26 million estimated at appraisal. The main reason for the lower than expected
result is the poor performance of the project's main component: the new constructions
originally foreseen have been reduced in number due to slow processing of civil works which
were delayed beyond any reasonable implementation time, and the corresponding loan funds
reallocated to the purchase of SP foreseen to be needed for a about five years. The following
Table 6 summarizes the overall project results and the corresponding indicators for each of the
three main components. All benefits discussed above have been assigned to each component
and set against the costs of all project components.

                                Table 6 Project Economic Results

                                        Investment 1/       ERR (%)         NPV (12% disc.)
                                        (US$ million)                         (US$ million)
 New Construction (NC)                     109.4               8.3                - 19.2
 Complete Rehabilitation (CR)               37.6              26.1                 36.7
 Spare Parts (PR & SP)                      46.9              12.9                 2.1
 Overall Project                           193.9              13.9                 19.6


                                                                                            37

1/Includes proportional share of the Emergency Centers, Central Workshops and Laboratories,
Institutional Support and Capacity Building Components.

As can be seen from the above table, being the NC component the most important (56.4% of
investment) the ERR appears to be only 8.3% (negative NPV of US$19.2 million) as result of
the delays in completing the civil works and install the electromechanical equipment that has
been idle since bought between four and six years but still stands in the PS's sites waiting for its
installation. The PS rehabilitation component (19.5% of investment) shows a significant 26.1%
ERR (NPV at US$36.7 million) since the building sites were in good shape for immediate
installation of the new equipment under the CR or PR schemes. Finally, the PR and SP program
shows a marginal ERR of 12.9% (NPV at US$2.1 million) since SP for an estimated ten year
requirements were purchased keeping far more than a reasonable stock of expensive SP.

In Table 7 to 10 present detailed calculations of the costs and benefits for the overall project and
the three main subcomponents, and the corresponding results in terms of ERRs and NPVs.

Sensitivity Analysis

The two main assumptions considered in the analysis that could be considered are: (i) the actual
command area of the enhanced PSs; and (ii) the benefits stemming from the PR and SP schemes.
A sensitivity analysis was performed assuming, in the first case a 30% reduction of the project
benefited command area registered by MED (about 2.06 million fed instead of the 2.94 million
registered by MED); and in the second case, a complete exclusion of the benefited agricultural
area assigned for the PR and SP program (about 1.78 million fed increasing yields by 1% and
0.5% respectively) keeping only the 1.16 million fed as the command area benefited by the NC
and CR components.

In the first case, if the overall command area of the enhanced PSs was reduced by 30%, the
ERR drops to 9.9%. If the benefits of the US$31 million investment in PR and SP programs are
computed as generating no benefit, the ERR would drop to 10.5%.




                                                                                                 38

                                 Table 7    Project Summary
                                          ECONOMIC BUDGET
                                              (In US$ Million)


                                         2000   2001  2002    2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2012


Main Production
  Wheat                                   208     208  208     208   208    209   209   209   214   218
  Broad Beans                              17      17    17     17    17    17    17    17     18    18
  Berseem                                  88      88    88     88    89    89    89     89    89    90
  Winter Vegetables                        54      54    54     54    54    54    54    54    56    57
  Summer Vegetables                       129     129  129     129   130   130   130   130   133   136
  Cotton                                   102    102   102     102   102   102   103   103   105   107
  Rice                                     82      82    82     82    82    82    82     82    84    86
  Maize                                   225     225  225     225   225   226   226   226   231    237
  Citrus                                  106     106  106      106   106   106   106   106   109   111
  Sorghum                                  35      35    35      35    35    35    35    35    35    36
  Soybean                                  10      10    10      10    10    10    10    10    10    10
  Sugar                                     60     60    60      60    60    60    60    60    62    63
Sub-total Main Production                1,116  1,117 1,117   1,118 1,118 1,119 1,120 1,121 1,146 1,170
Production Cost
  Inputs                                  562     562  562      562   563   563   563   563   568   572
  Energy Consumption                       16      16    16     15    15     15    15    14    14    12
  Operation & Maintainance Costs            8       8      8     8     8     8     8     8      8     6
Sub-Total Production Cost                  586    586   586     586   586   586   586   585   590   590
Other Costs
  I&D PSs New Construction Investments       -      -    15     20    15    10     6     6      -     -
  I&D PSs Complete Rehabilitation
  Investments                                -      3      4      4     4     2     3     6     -     -
  I&D PSs Spare Parts Investments            -     8       7     4     7     6      -     -     -     -
  Emergency Centers                          -      -      -      -    3     4     3     2      -     -
  Central Workshops and Labs                 -      -      -      -    3     4     3      -     -     -
  Institutional Support                      -      -      5    10     8    12      -    6      -     -
  Capacity Building for MED                  -      -      1      -    2     1     1      -     -     -
Sub-Total Other Costs                        -     11    32      38    41    38   15    20      -     -
  OUTFLOWS                                 586    596   618     624   627   625   601   605   590   590
Cash Flow                                  530    520   500     494   492   495   519   516   556   580


  IRR = 13.9%, NPV = 19.62




                                                1

                 Table 8. New Construction Program
                        ECONOMIC BUDGET
                           (In US$ Million)


                                             2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2012


Main Production
  Wheat                                        73   73   73   73   73   73   73   73   77
  Broad Beans                                   6    6    6    6    6    6    6    6    6
  Berseem                                      31   31   31   31   31   31   31   31   32
  Winter Vegetables                           19   19   19   19   19   19   19   19   20
  Summer Vegetables                            54   54   54   54   54   54   54   54   57
  Cotton                                       42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   45
  Rice                                         32   32   32   32   32   32   32   32   34
  Maize                                        92   92   92   92   92   92   92   92   97
  Citrus                                       44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   46
  Sorghum                                      14   14   14   14   14   14   14   14   15
  Soybean                                       4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4
  Sugar                                        25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   26
Sub-total Main Production                     437  437  437  437  437  437  437  437  458
Production Cost
  Inputs                                      221  221  221  221  221  221  221  221  225
  Energy Consumption                            3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    2
  Operation & Maintainance Costs               4     4    4    4    4    4    4    4    3
Sub-Total Production Cost                     228  228  228  228  228  228  228  228  230
Other Costs
  I&D PSs New Construction Investments          -  15   20   15   10    6    6     -    -
  Other Costs                                   -    -    -    1    2    1    1    -    -
  Central Workshops and Labs                    -    -    -   1    2    2     -    -    -
  Institutional Support                         -   3    6    5    7     -   3     -    -
  Capacity Building for MED                     -   1     -   1    0    0     -    -    -
Sub-Total Other Costs                           -   18   26   23   22    9   11    -    -
  OUTFLOWS                                    228  246  254  251  250  237  239  228  230
Cash Flow                                     209  190  183  185  187  199  198  209  229



  IRR = 8.3%, NPV = -19.15




                                                 2

                                 Table 9    Complete Rehabilitation Program
                                                 ECONOMIC BUDGET
                                                     (In US$ Million)


                                         2001 2002 2003   2004    2005  2006 2007 2008 2012


Main Production
  Wheat                                   109  109  109    109      109  109  109  114  114
  Broad Beans                               9    9    9      9        9    9    9    9    9
  Berseem                                  46   46   46     46       46   46   46   47   47
  Winter Vegetables                        28   28   28     28       28   28   28   30   30
  Summer Vegetables                        51   51   51     51       51   51   51   54   54
  Cotton                                   40   40   40     40       40   40   40   42   42
  Rice                                     34   34   34     34       34   34   34   36   36
  Maize                                    90   90   90     90       90   90   90   95   95
  Citrus                                   42   42   42     42       42   42   42   44   44
  Sorghum                                  14   14   14     14       14   14   14   14   14
  Soybean                                   4    4    4      4        4    4    4    4    4
  Sugar                                    24   24   24     24       24   24   24   25   25
Sub-total Main Production                 491  491  491    491      491  491  491  515  515
Production Cost
  Inputs                                  244  244  244    244      244  244  244  249  249
  Energy Consumption                        2    2    2      2        2    2    2    2    2
  Operation & Maintainance Costs            2    2    2      2        2    2    1    1    1
Sub-Total Production Cost                 248  248  248    248      248  248  247  252  252
Other Costs
  I&D PSs Complete Rehabilitation
  Investments                               3    4    4      4       2     3    6    -    -
  Other Costs                               -    -    -      0        1    0    0    -    -
  Central Workshops and Labs                -    -    -      0       1     1    -    -    -
  Institutional Support                     -    1    2      2       2     -    1    -    -
  Capacity Building for MED                 -    0    -      0       0     0    -    -    -
Sub-Total Other Costs                       3    5    6      6        6    4    7    -    -
  OUTFLOWS                                251  253  254    255      254  252  255  252  252
Cash Flow                                 240  238  237    236      237  239  236  263  263


  IRR = 26.1%, NPV = 36.71




                                              3

                       Table 10 Spare Parts Program
                                ECONOMIC BUDGET
                                   (In US$ Million)


                                2001  2002 2003   2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2012


Main Production
  Wheat                           26    26   26     26   27   27   27   27   27
  Broad Beans                      2     2     2     2    2    2    2    3    3
  Berseem                         11    11   11     11   11   11   11   11   11
  Winter Vegetables                7     7     7     7    7    7    7    7    7
  Summer Vegetables               25    25   25     25   25   25   25   25   26
  Cotton                          19    19   20     20   20   20   20   20   20
  Rice                            16    16   16     16   16   16   17   17   17
  Maize                           43    43   43     43   43   43   44   44   44
  Citrus                          20    20   20     20   20   20   20   21   21
  Sorghum                          7     7     7     7    7    7    7    7    7
  Soybean                          2     2     2     2    2    2    2    2    2
  Sugar                           11    11   11     11   11   12   12   12   12
Sub-total Main Production        189   190  190    191  192  193  194  194  197
Production Cost
  Inputs                          97    97   98     98   98   98   98   98   99
  Energy Consumption              10    10   10     10   10    9    9    9    8
  Operation & Maintainance
  Costs                            3     3     3     3    3    2    2    2    2
Sub-Total Production Cost        110   110  110    110  110  110  110  110  109
Other Costs
  I&D PSs Spare Parts
  Investments                      8     7     4     7    6    -    -    -    -
  Other Costs                      -     -      -    1    1    1    1    -    -
  Central Workshops and Labs       -     -      -    1    1    1    -    -    -
  Institutional Support            -     1     2     2    3    -    1    -    -
  Capacity Building for MED        -     0      -    0    0    0    -    -    -
Sub-Total Other Costs              8     8     6    11   11    1    2    -    -
  OUTFLOWS                       118   118  116    121  121  111  112  110  109
Cash Flow                         71    72   75     70   71   81   82   85   88


  IRR = 12.9%, NPV = 2.07




                                                4

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

              Names                                 Title                     Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                                             Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR

Maher Abu-Taleb                 Senior Water Resources Management
                                Specialist                                   MNSSD Task Team Leader

Adel F. Bichara                  Senior Irrigation Engineer, Consultant      MNSSD    Engineer and former
                                                                                      TTL
Usaid Al Hanbali                Senior Water Resources Engineer              ECSSD Former TTL

Nejdet Al Salihi                 Lead Irrigation Specialist, Consultant      MNSSD    Engineer and former
                                                                                      TTL
Mohamed Yahia and Ahmed Said
Abd El Karim                    Financial Management Specialist              MNAFM Financial Management

Azad Abdulhamid                 Senior Irrigation Engineer                   MNSSD ICR TTL
Stefanie U.S. Brackmann         Consultant                                   AFTEN
Hani Abdel-Kader El Sadani Salem Senior Water Resources Engineer             MNSSD
Zakia Chummun                    Language Program Assistant                  MNSSD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                                  No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including travel
                                                                                  and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY96                                                                                  136.74
   FY97                                                                                   41.47
   FY98                                                                                  137.05
   FY99                                                                                   12.12
   FY00                                                                                    0.65

                                 Total:                                                  331.83
Supervision/ICR
   FY96                                                                                    2.63
   FY97                                                                                    0.77
   FY98                                                                                    0.00
   FY99                                                                                   17.30
   FY00                                                     6                             23.64
   FY01                                                   10                              55.87
   FY02                                                   12                              59.75
   FY03                                                   13                              62.11
   FY04                                                   12                             111.99
   FY05                                                   17                              77.70
   FY06                                                   20                              68.93
   FY07                                                   17                              93.16
   FY08 (estimated)                                                                      100

                                 Total:                 107                              673.85




                                                      5

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                    6

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   7

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Project Description

During preparation of the appraisal report the project's components were as follows:

    · Rehabilitation of 77 stations, 68 financed from the World Bank and 9 from KfW, setting
         up 5 emergency stations equipped with mobile pumping stations and power generators in
         addition to providing spare parts for 9 stations.
    · Supporting the central workshops and engineering laboratories with operation and
         maintenance equipment.
    · Supporting the Department with transport vehicles and inspection equipment.
    · Capacity building of the Department's staff by providing technical support and training.

During preparation of the mid-term review the components were modified as follows:

    · New construction of 21 stations.
    · Complete and partial rehabilitation of 75 stations.
    · Providing spare parts for 73 stations.
    · Setting up 5 emergency centers.

At the end of the project the components were as follows:

    · New construction of 21 stations.
    · Complete and partial rehabilitation of 51 stations.
    · Providing spare parts for 62 stations.
    · Setting up 5 emergency centers.

This is in addition to increasing the quantity of equipment supplied over the initial assessment
carried out during the beginning of the project.


Loan Amount

Upon the quantities calculated during the initial assessment the foreign component of the project
was $120 million. During implementation and based on the Department's good use of the loan,
quantities of equipment delivered reached 150% of what was foreseen at the initial assessment
and at less than the loan amount. Based on this, the Department returned $20 million of the loan
amount due to the inability to utilize these funds in the period remaining up to loan closure and to
avoid payment of interest on this amount.

Outcomes Achieved by the Project

The project benefits with respect to what is saved from O&M expenses which reached $2.5
million annually and the benefits from electricity savings of $1.8 million annually and the
agricultural benefits of $47 million annually, this in addition to increasing the amount of water
pumped to 8.1 BCM.


Factors Affecting the Project


                                                   8

The main issues that played an important role in affecting project implementation can be
summarized as follows:


    1. Long implementation periods for civil works in new constructions.
    2. Long periods for verification of technical data of the stations by the responsible agencies
         before bidding.
    3. Increases in construction materials such as steel and cement during project
         implementation and long periods in approving compensations for contractors, a fact that
         led to a halt at construction sites.
    4. Difficulties facing the Department in achieving expropriation of the required areas for
         construction of stations in case land is not owned by the Department.

Performance of the Department and the World Bank

From the beginning of the project a complete cooperation appeared between the Department and
the World Bank to implement the project in the best way possible. This appeared during
identification of the project components through the Preparation Report and the Appraisal Report,
this in addition that during project implementation, the Bank would send missions every 6 months
to supervise the project. At the end of each mission a report was prepared to update each of the
project components.

Development of the Department's Systems

In light of the huge advancements in information systems all over the world and to be in-line with
these advancements, the World Bank approved the Department's upgrading of its information
system be financing a complete project including upgrading the information system at the
Department and connecting the main central with all directorates following it from Aswan to
Alexandria. The project also includes a database for all the stations and its condition as well as
the status of the stores and spare parts availability...etc. This system speeds up the process of
decision making with regards to what stations need rehabilitation, renewal or supply of spare
parts.

Lessons Learned

The lessons learned from this project form an important element that has to be taken into
consideration during preparation of future projects, theses lessons are:


         1. Focus on stations that need rehabilitation within the same structure while giving
             attention to obtaining detailed data for the equipment to be rehabilitated as well as
             arrangement of structural drawings for the station. All this to be carried out during
             project component identification and preparation.


         2. Inclusion of new construction stations under the condition of the availability of the
             required expropriation documents or to use land owned by the ministry and tendering
             the contract on a Turn Key basis.




                                                   9

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Draft ICR report was submitted to the cofinancier KfW for their comments. KfW
did not have any comments to the contents and performance rating by ICR. However,
KfW provided valuable comments concerning their contribution to the project.




                                        10

                  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


· Staff Appraisal Report (Report Number 18163-EGT). Third Pumping Stations
  Rehabilitation Project, July 1, 1998

· Loan Agreement (Loan number 4386 EGT). Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation
  Project, November 4, 1998

· Supervision Missions' Aide Memoirs from 2000 to 2007

· Mid Term Review Report. Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project, August, 2003

· Country Assistance Strategy for The Arab Republic of Egypt for the Period FY06-FY09
  IBRD and IFC, May 20, 2005, Middle East and North Africa Region

· Integrated Water Resources Management Plan, MWRI, June 2005

· Third Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project, Appraisal Support Mission Report for
  KfW, Arcadis, April, 1998

· Irrigation Improvement Project, ICR, June, 2007

· Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project ­ ICR ­ May, 1993

· Second Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project ­ Project Performance Assessment
  Report, February 2004

· Project Appraisal Document. Integrated Irrigation Improvement and Management Project,
  April 7, 2005

· Assessment of Options for Public Private Partnership in Operation and Maintenance of
  Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure (with emphasis on pumping stations); PPIAF, July
  2007




                                          11

12

