Document of
The WVorld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repr No. 7652
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD AND FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS
(CREDITS 377-IN AND 604-IN)
March 3, 1989
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Asia Country Department 1V
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori7ation.



Measures and Equivalents
One Kilovolt (KV)                     -    1,000 volts
One megawatt (MW)                     -    1,000 kilowatts
One megavolt ampere (MVA)             -    1,000 kilovolt-amperes
One kilometer (km)                    -    0.62 miles
One gigawatt hour (GWh)               -    One million kilowatt hours
Acronyms and Abbreviations
BCB                           -    Beas Construction Board
CEA                           -    Central Electricity Authority
CWPC                          -    Central Water and Power Commission
DESU                          -    Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking
GOI                           -    Government of India
LIC                                Life Insurance Corporation of India
NHPC                          -    National Hydro-Electric Power Corporation
NTPC                          -    National Thermal Power Cornoration
RE                            -    kural Electrification
REB                           -    Regional Electricity Board
REC                           -    Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB                           -    State Electricity Board



THE WORLD IANK                 7F0R OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washtnslon. DC 20433
IIA
O1w. no OvI( EW Ci'w.ai
0,ahw d Dujiuus
March 3, 1989
MEMORANDZJM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on India
Third and Fourth Transmission Projects
(Credits 377-IN and 604-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India - Third and Fourth Transmission Projects (Credits
377-IN and 604-IN)" prepared by the Transport and Energy Operations Division,
intry Department IV, Asia Regional Office.
Attachment
This document huas arestrited distribution and may be used by focipients only in the performance
of theif official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discksod without World Bank sutho-i-stion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD AND FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS
CREDITS 377-IN AND 604-IN
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                ...................................         i
Basic Data Sheets ...............                     ...         ii
Highlights   ..vi
I. Introduction .
II. The Power Sector.                                                     1
III. Project Formulation.                                                2
Project Orgnanization.                                           5
Cost Estimates.                                                  5
Project Justification.                                           7
IV. Project Implementation.                                              7
Overview.                                                        7
Procurement.                                                     8
Lead Despatch .10
Trarsmission .11
Disbursements ...........                                       12
Beneficiaries under Credit 377-IN .13
Assam State Electricity Board .13
Karnataka Electricity Board .13
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board .13
Orissa State Electricity Board .13
Tamil Nadu Electricity Board .13
Beas Construction Board .13
Kerala Electricity Board .14
Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU) .14
Tata Electric Company .14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cotit.)
Page No.
Seneficiariet; under Credit 604-IN ......................          14
Bihar State Electlicity Board .....        ...................  1.4
Gujarat State Electricity Board .....        .................   15
Maharashtra State Electricity Board ....        ..............   15
West Bengal Electricity Board .....        ...................   1S
V.    Financial Performance ..................................            15
General .............     .................................      15
Tariffs ...............................................          16
Rural Electrification Subsidies ........................        .16
Unpaid Interest on Loans .............................           17
Capitalization of Interest During Construction ........          18
Long-Rurn Marginal Cost Study .........................          18
Audit .     ...............................................      18
Amendments to Electricity Supply Act ..................          18
VI.   Development of the Power Sector During
Project Implementation ......        ............................  18
Transtnission ..........................................         19
VII. Justif,cation .19
VIII. Institutional DeveloDment .20
IX.   Borrcwer and Bank Performance ..........................21
X. Project Impact .21
XI. Conclusions .23
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimate, Credit 377-IN ...                                  25
2. Cost Estimate, Credit 604-IN       .      .                       27
3. Utilization of Credit by Beneficiaries, Credit 377-IN .           29
4. Utilization of Credit by Beneficiaries, Credl*; 604-IN .          30
5. Status of Transmission Line Implementation. .. ,,                 31
6. Disbursement Schedule ............................... ..          37
7. Rate of Return ......................................             39
8. Contingent Liabilities ....                                      40
9. Installed Cap.city, Investment, Consumption, Losses
and Tariffs. .                                                 41
10. Borrower's Comments to the Report   .. ......                     56



THIRD AND FOURTh POWEk TRANSMISSION PROJFCTS
CREDITS 377-IN AND 604-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION EPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the Third Power
Trauismission Project, Credit 377-IN for US$ 85 million, made in May 1973,
and for the Fourth Power Transmission Project, Credit 604-IN for US$ 150
million, made in January 1976, to India.  Credit 377-IN, which was to be
closed in September 1977, was closed September 3, 1978. Credit 604-IN was
to be closed in June 1981 but was closed June 30, 1983. Both projects
financed materials, equipment and services and were effectively fully
disbursed. However the construction of the transmission facilities
described in the respective project descriptions in the credit agreements
continued long after the Credits were closed. In fact, a few facilities
provided for under Credit 604 will probably not be completed until l.989.
Because of the high price inflation experienced in the mid-seventies, the
funds provided under Credit 377 were not sufficient to procure the goods
envisaged. An amount of US$ 30 million was therefore included in Credit
604 for this purpose.
The PCR was originally prepared by the former South Asia Projects
Department and subsequently updated and finalized by the Asia Country
Department IV. The PCR is based on the the Appraisal Reports, President's
Reports, Credit Agreements, correspondence files and discussions with staff
who had been associated w5th the projects. The section of the PCR
describing physical implementation and status of the facilities is based on
a field PCR prepared by two Indian consultants who visited the State
Electricity Boards and other beneficiaries during 1984-85 and 1988.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
OED sent copies of the draft report to the Borrower and Executing Agency
for comments. Borrower's comments are attached as Annex 10.



ii
INDIA
THIRD POWER ?RANSKISSIOU PROJECTS
Cr. 377-IN
PROJECT COSPLITTIOU EPORT
Basic Data Shet
Appraisal
Estimate         Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ Million)                       15C.7           NA la
Overrun (1)                                                            NA /a
Credit Amount (US$ Million)                             85.0            85.0
Supplementary Credits (US$ million) /a                           -
Disbursed                                                               85.0
Cancelled                                                 -              -
Date for Completion of Physical Components             12/76            8/82
Proportion Completed by Appraisal Target Z               100              75
Economic Rate of Return Z                                  /b
Financial Performance                                     -             Fair
Institutional Performance                                               Poor
Estimated and Actual Cumulative Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1974     1975      1976      1977   11978
(i)  Appraisal Estimate             1.0      32.0      72.5      85.0         -
(ii)  'ctual                          0        0        19.2      60.0       P5.0
(iii)  expressed as Z of (i)           0        0        25.0      71.0      100.0
/a Not available (para 3.14-3.15).
/b ERR was not calculated at -praisal.



iii
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan        Actual
First Mention in Files                         -                   1/71
Negotiations                                   -                   2/73
Board Approval                                 -                 5/5/73
Credit Agreement Signed                        -                 5/9/73
Effectiveness                                  -                9)28/73
Closing Date                                   -                9/30/78
Borrowers                India
Executing Agencv:        State Electricity Boards /a
Follow-on Project:       Fourth Transmission Project (Cr. 604-IN)
Mission Data
No. of     No. of                 Date of
Month/Year  Weeks       Persons    Manweeks  Report
Identification         2/73        -            -         -           -
Appraisal              6/72        2            3          6       2/26/73
Supervision /b   i    7/76         2            2         4        9/15/76
ii    3/77        1/2         3          1-1/2   4/02/77
iii    1/78        1           2          1-1/2   3/30/78
Exchange Rates
Name of Currency                  :   Rupees
Appraisal Year Average (1973)   :  US$1 = Rs 7.35
Intervening Years Average         :  US$1 - Rs 8.90
Project Completion (1982)         :  US$1 - Rs 8.44
Fiscal Year of Borrower           :  April 1 - March 31
/a State Electricity Boards of Assam, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,
Orissa and Tamil Nadu. The Beas Construction Board, Delhi Electric Supply
Undertaking and Tata Electric Co., Northern and Southern Regional
Electricity Boards and the Central Electricity Authority.
/b Missions supervised both the third and fourth transmission projects.



iv
DIA
FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS
Cr. 604-IN
PROJECT CONPLETIOW DEPORT
Basic Data Sheet
Appraisal
Estimate      Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ Million)                  207.3               NA /a
Overrun (2)                                         _                 _
Credit Amount (US$ Million)                       150.0           150.00
Disbursed                                           -             149.87
Cancelled                                           -               0.13 /b
Date for Completion of Physical Components        12/79             1987 /c
Proportion Completed by Appraisal Target Z        100.0            40.00
Economic Rate of Return                            /d
Financial Performance                                               Fair
Institutional Performance                                           Poor
Estimated and Actual Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1977  1978  1979   1980   1981   1982  1983
(i)  Appraisal Estimate       16.0  62.0  125.0  147.0  150.0        -     -
(ii)  Actual                     C    19.5   50.6   78.2   99.1  125.0 149.87/b
(iii)  expressed as I of (i)    0    13.0   34.0   52.0   66.0   83.0  99.0
/a Not avdilable (pars 3.14-3.15).
/b An amount of US$134,000 of the credit was cancelled 4/9/84.
/c Construction of some of the transmission works financed is still underway.
/d ERR was not calculated at appraisal.



v
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan        Actual
First Mention in Files                         -                  11/73
Negotiations                                   -                  11/75
board Approval                                 -               12/23/75
Credit Agreement Signed                        -                1/22/76
Effectiveness                             4/22/76              10/22/76
Closing Date                              6/30/81               6/30/83
Borrower-                India
Executing Agency:        State Electricity Boards la
Follow-on Project:       None
Mission Data
No. of     No. of                 Date of
Month/Year  Weeks       Persons    Manweeks  Report
Identification           73        -            -         -           -
Appraisal              5/74        2            3         6       12/23/75
Supervision /I   i    7j06         1/2          2         1-1/2   9/15/76 lb
ii    3/77        1/2         3          1-1/2   4/02/77 /b
iii    1/78        1/2         2          1-1/2   3/30/78 /b
iv    1/79        1           1          1       2/01/79
v    1/81        1/2         2          1        4/14/81
Exchange Rates (Nepal Rupees -Rs)
Name of Currency                      Rupees
Appraisal Year Average (1973)         US$l = Rs  8.0
Intervening Years Average             US$l - Rs  8.7
Project Completion (1983              US$l - Rs 10.0
Fiscal Year of Borrower               April 1 - March 31
/a State Electricity Boards of Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal.
The Beneficiary SEbs under the Third Transmission Project, the Eastern
and Western Regional Boards and the Central Electricity Authority.
/b Missions supervised both the third and fourth transmission projects.



vi
INDIA
TIRID AND FOUTE POTAM TRANSHISSION PROJECTS
CREDITS 377-Il AND 604-Il
PROJECT CONFLETIOP IDOl?
limhliaht.
The Third and Fourth Power Transmission Projects, Credit 377-IN in
1973 and Credit 604-IN in 1976, provided for nearly 700 km of high-voltage
transmission line- and associated substations for ten State Electricity
Boards and three independent supply licensees; however, the projects failed
to achieve most of the financial objectives set out for the SEBs in the
appraisal report. There was delay in completing disbursements as evidence
by one-year and two-year delays, respectively, in the Closing Dates but
there were much more substantial delays in completing the physical works.
Virtually all facilities are now in service but a few are still under
construction with final completion expected in 1989. The most serious
delays were exp2rienced by five SEBs. There were several causes: delay in
procurement of materials and equipment, mainly of a self-inflicted nature;
delay in construction due to weak SEB organization and contract management;
and shortages of raw materials which led to some very late deliveries of
parts and equipment. Some regional load dispatching facilities provided
under the projects have only recently been made fully operational, and
flexibility in the control and interchange of power on the regional systems
was accordingly reduced and substantial benefits foregone. The procuremert
proceedings of the load dispatch equipment were marked by considerable
delays (para 4.07). These delays impacted adversely on power service and
costs and service did not improve as much ur as rapidly as planned.
The Association administered the projects through the Central
Electricity Authority (CEA), to which it confined most of its supervision
activities. As a consequence, tne Association had little direct contact
with the ultimate beneficiaries. The SEBs made little progress in
institutional development in the areas of management, organization and
procedures. Greater progLess would probably have been achieved in this
area had they had the more usual Bank-beneficiary hands-on relationship.
The Association used the projects as a vehicle to improve the
financial practices and viability of the sector, in particular those of
the SEBs. Improved rates of return, state subsidization of rural
electrification losses, waiver of the interest owed the States by their
SEBs or. capital contributions, and capitalization of interest during
construction were covenanted in the projects. Some progress was made and
SEB finances improved, but on the whole the results were below that
expected by the Association. By and large the SEBs did not respond to the
initiatives of Central Government in the area of financial discipline.



vii
The experience with tha projects raises some important issues for
this type of project, although mainly in the Indian context:
- If the Bank were to undertake similar projects in the future,
consideration should be given to tieing disbursements to the
rate of progress rather than to invoices of shipment of gocis,
which resulted, in this case, in disbursement being completed
and the Credits closed long before the works were finished.
- The amount of supervision provided by the Association seems to
havu been less than required by these multi-state, multi-agency
projects, resulting in virtually no direct superv.sion of work
progress to the considerable disadvantage of the project and the
SEBs. This aspect sh3uld be carefully taken into account in
possible projects of a similar nature.
- The Bank-country arrangemenLts devised for the projects hindered
a direct relationships and contact between the Bank and the
SEBs, a situation that continued under Rural Electrification
lending. Improvements of institutions at the center has been the
focus, with the intent that the leverage provided can enable SEB
capability and practices to be moved in the direction of sound
utility practice, at least in the financial sphere. But this
has happened only to a limited extent and the SEBs do not appear
to have moved forward as a whole. Collectively, the SEBs
cor.stitute the most important public presence in the sector;
they have the largest role, and the one in which potential
economies (and diseconomies) are greatest. Given this, Bank
lending should also emphasize the SEBs so that a direct and
continuing relationship emerges that allows for more effective
joint action.
In the early 1980's, the Bank became aware of the small progress
being made by SEBs despite the large amournt of lending to the Center and
the Center's efforts through obligations and covenants to improve -sBs. The
Bank began to take measures in 1984 to reestablish direct contact with the
SEBs. It shifted the emphasis on power projects from the Central
Government domain to that of the State Governments. Since then, six
hydroelectric power loans and a thermal power loan have been made to six
states (the SEBs are executing agents); several others are in preparation.
Continuation of this policy should enable the recipient SEBs and Bank to
work together to eventually raise the capability and performance of the
SEBs. At the same time the Bank should continue to support the
institutions of the Central Government, mainly those that are in a position
to add power capacity to the different regions expeditiously (NTPC and
NHPC), so that some relief is provided for the States which lack
implementation capacity and, also importantly, so as to ensure that the
Center has a meaningful role in the sector in each Region to guide and
discipline system expansion and operation.



INIA
THIRD AND FOURTH POwER TRANSHISSION PROJRC.S
CREDITS 377-IN AND 604-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION RZPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Third Power Transmission Project, for which Credit 377-IN for
US$85 million was made in 1973, was the fourteenth Bank Group operation
in the power sector in India. The Fourth Power Transmission Project, for
which Credit 604-IN for US$150 million was made in 1976, was the sixteenth.
1.02     The Credits had been preceded by two other transmission projects,
Loan 416-IN, US$70 million in 1965, and Credit 242-IN, US$7s million in
1971. Otherwise Bank-Group lending had been mainly for generating plant.
The previous projects were completed satisfactorily but it was evident
that there was still insufficient transmission to match installed
generatin; capacity, with various degrees of imbalance experienced in the
different regions. The 3ubject projects marked an intensive effort by the
Bank Group to improve the transmission situation.
1.03     Most of the operating utilities (SEBs) were involved in the
programs financed by Cr. 377-IN and Cr. 604-IN. The implementation period
covered about ten years and saw a massive increase in the size of the
power sector as well as considerable development of the country's capacity
to manufacture power equipment and materials.
1.04     The Bank Group provided important financing to the power sector in
the 1970's. For this reason, and the long period of project
implementation, considerable data is provided in the PCR on sector growth,
finances, and institutional development to show where the sector stood at
the beginning, its advances, and where it is at now. The report is
therefore retrospective and does not deal only with these projects.
1.05     The main source of procurement information in the PCR is the
Bank's correspondence files. As for the construction history, problems
and status, two reports were prepared in the field by Indian consultants
who visited most of the entities involved and obtained whatever information
was available. Without their efforts, it would have been difficult to
prepare a PCR.
II. THE POWER SECTOR
2.01     Electricity supply is within the concurrent jurisdiction of the
Central and State Governments.  The industry was organized on the basis of
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, under which the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs) were established and made responsible for generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity within their respective
States. There are a few private licensees operating in urban areas, which



-2-
require the approval of the respective SEB to expand facilities. Though
conceived as autonomous bodies, SEBs have limited scope for independent
action, being under the control of the State Governments. The coordination
of the activities of the SEBs with national power development policy is the
responsibility of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA). At the time of
appraisal of the Third Transmission Credit, control at the national level
was not effective as CEA, although already established in 1950, had become
largely inactive. The Government of India decided to reactivate it in
October 1974. The Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC), which had de
facto been the operative age-cy at the national level, was reorganized and
its power function transferred to the CEA, which was made to report to the
newly established Ministry of Energy. The CEA was given responsibility,
inter alia, for the formulation of plans for power development, training of
personnel, interconnected system operation, and research and development.
2.02     Other agencies in the industry include: (i) the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC); (ii) tne National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) for design, construction and operation of thermal
generating stations; (iii) the National Hydro-Electric Power Corporation
(NHPC), with the same function for hydro development, both established by
GOI to provide large amounts of new generating capacity efficiently in the
regions, which are listed below; and (iv) the Regional Electricity Boards
(REB) in the five regions, Northern, Southern, Western, Eastern and
North-eastern, established to improve the collaboration of the SEBs in the
respective Regions and co-ordinate the operation of the regional systems to
maximum benefit.
2.03     The Ministry of Energy, the Planning Commission and the Ministry
of Finance are involved in decisions regarding major investments in the
sector. The CEA monitors the progress of the projects authorized under
the Five Year Plan and, after coordinating with the States, assists the
Planning Commission to decide on provision for projects in the Plan annual
budgets.
III. PROJECT FORMULATION
3.01     With the rapid growth of the power sector, the need to coordinate
the growth of transmission and distribution networks with generation is
essential. It was with this need in mind that the Bank decided to assist
in financing transmission facilities.
3.02     The Third Power Transmission Project was originally conceived by
the CWPC, in consultation with the beneficiary SEBs and other entities.
The Association appraised the project in 1972. It comprised 4000 km of
transmission lines, operating at voltages of 400 KV and 110 KV, 60
substations wit"h an aggregate capacity of 4600 MVA. It included provision
of communication and load control equipment for the Northern and Southern
Regions.
3.03     The Fourth Power Transmission Project, a continuation of the
third Project, was prepared by the CEA in consultation with the beneficiary
SEBs and REBs.  It comprised provision of about 2800 km of 400 KV and 220
KV transmission lines and a small amount of 220 KV and 132 KV underground



-3-
cable, 30 substations with a capacity of 2,700 MVA, and other imiscellaneous
equipment including communication and load despatch facilities. Some of
the 400 KV lines were to be operated initially at 220 KV. The Credit also
made provision for completion of certain sub-projects provided for but not
taken up under Credit 377-IN. It included provision of engineering
services to undertake system planning studies.
3.04     The beneficiaries under the two projects were as follows:
Third Power TLansmission Credit
- Assam State Electricity Board
- Kerala State Electricity Board
- Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board
- Mysore State (Karnataka) Electricity Board
- Orissa State Electricity Board
- Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
- Beas Construction Board
- Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
- Tata Power Company
- Southern Regional Electricity Board
- Northern Regional Electricity Board
Fourth Power Transmission Credit
- Bihar State Electricity Board
- Gujarat State Electricity Board
- Maharashtra State Electricity Board
- West Bengal State Electricity Board
- Western Regional Electricity Board
- Eastern Regional Electricity Board
3.05     lnstitutional development of the power sector was a paramount
consideration during project formulation. Considerable effort had been
made over the years under other Bank Group financed power projects to
improve sector organization, policies and finances, but prog.ess had been
slow and uneven. The Third and Fourth Transmission Projects afforded an
opportunity to address the problems on a sectorial basis as they embraced
most of the sector entities.
3.06     The issues addressed during formulation included the following:
(a)  central government authority had been vested in the CEA, which
however had played a declining role (para 2.01) and had become
mainly a vehicle for the channeling of State-Central Government
sector affairs. The Power Wing of CWC exercised the real Central
Government authority in the sector, though it had no statutory
authority.  A reorganization in which the CEA would emerge as the
single Central Government authority with clearly defir.ed powers
was decided;
(b)  the Bank Group had long been discussing the need for SEBs to
become financially viable through appropriate tariff level and



-4-
other practices, and avoid dependence on state subsidization. It
was agreed that the SEBs would be entitled to a specified rate of
return on net fixed assets although achieving that objective might
take a few years;
(c) because of the need of most SEEs for state financial assistance
which when received was accounted for as SEB debt, many states had
accumulated a m&seive sum of overdue interest. Since some SEBs
were unlikely to ever be able to repay the sum, the situation
called for some rationalization. It was agreed to waive or cancel
the amounts of accumulated interest in due course;
(d) the Association advocated the capitalization of interest during
construction; and,
(e) as Rural Electrification (RE) grew, predominantly a matter of
electrification of tubewells for irrigation and RE tariffs were
maintained well below cost, SEBs were accumulating large deficits
on this account. The Association agreed that a subsidy to offset
RE deficits would be paid by the State Governments to the SEBs.
3.07     Covenants:  The above undertakings by the states were embodied in
the following covenants under Cr. 377-IN:
(a) subsidize losse. from rural electrification programs either fully
or partially to enable the respective SEEs to earn a rate of
ieturn of 9.5Z on non-revalued average net fixed assets in
operation;
(b) waive their claims against the SEB's unpaid accrued interest as of
March 31, 1970 (for SEB beneficiaries under Cr.604-IN the
applicable date was March 31, 2.976); and (c) cause their Boards to
capitalize interest during construction in accordance with
guidelines to be established.
Other covenants in Cr. 377-IN included:
(a) improvement in the coordination of the planning of power
sector development with that of other sectors;
(b) amendment of the Electricity (Supply) Act in regard to
certain financial and accounting provisions;
3.08     Aside from a reiteration of these covenants, Cr. 604-IN provided
that SEBs would carry out a pricing study of the electric power supply
based on marginal cost principles.
3.09     Both the Credit Agreements further specified that no disbursements
would be made for goods and services awarded more than 18 months after the
date of the respective Credit Agreement. The objective was to expedite
procuremenit and to cause the CEA and SEBs to focus on the preparation of
bid documents, calling of tenders and awarding of contracts, without delay.
Section V gives the status of covenants compliance.



Project Organization
3.10     This was the first time the Bank addressed, on a national basis,
the financial situation of the SEBs. Heretofore individual SEBs, as the
beneficiaries of specific credits, committed themselves to certain
financial performances and the fulfillment of covenants especially designed
for the respective SEBs. Bank missions supervised the projects and visited
the states, discussing the problems with the SEBs. When the Third
Transmission Project was formulated, it was the Bank's intention to have
the Central Government exercise discipline in an attempt to improve the
States' financial performance and meet covenant obligations, but it was not
its intention to discontinue a dialogue with the individual SEBs nor to
discontinue dealing with them directly.
3.11     In the Fourth Transmission Project CEA was appointed coordinating
agency for the project. In particular it was to act as a review body for
procurement, and all SEB procurement documents were to be routed through
it to the Association. Subsequently the CEA was asked by the Association
to have the SEBs organize a Project Progress Reporting system under which
SEB quarterly reports would be reviewed and summarized by CEA for
submission to the Association.
Cost Estimates
3.12     The Third Transmission Project was estimated to cost US$150.7
million, including 102 for physical and 7Z for price contingencies on
base price. The estimate was prepared by the SEBs and other beneficiaries
in consultation with CWPC. Details are given in Annex 1.
3.13     The Fourth Transmission Project was estimated to cost US$207.3
million. This comprised US$158.8 for transmission facilities including
52 for physical contingency, and 19.62 for equipment and 27.8Z for civil
works price contingencies, for which the estimates were prepared by the
SEBs in consultation with CEA (following the 1973 oil crisis price
contingencies increased substantially). The remainder of the cost was for
regional control equipment and for works included in but not completed
under the Third Transmission Project. Details are given in Annex 2.
3.14     Cost estimates for each SEB or each transmission line are not
contained in the appraisal reports and were probably not prepared per se.
Rather, an estimate of the total cost and local costs of the equipment
supplies was made for each state.
3.15     The only information available on actual cost is that provided in
the field PCR (para 1.05) and consists of the list of contracts and their
cost, by state. This information, which is voluminous,l/ is in the Asia
Central Files and refers only to contracts for procurement and materials.
However, the usual PCR presentation of actual costs and comparison with
estimated ones was not possible owing to the following main factors:
1/ The two credits entail nearly 400 contracts.



-6-
(a)  these credits had the characteristic of a program loan in that
they supported India's ongoing transmission development program,
providing financing for material, equipment and services, but not
civil works, involving hundreds of works executed throughout a
large part of India;
(b)  the projects were executed over a period of about ten years even
though disbursements under the Credits were largely completed in
about fivre years, after vhich the Bank's supervision was
discontinued; and
(c)  the individual transmission lines and substations, which together
formed the Projec;, were constructed by the beneficiaries
numbering eleven SEB and two other entities. At the time of
execution of the major part of these projects, the SEBs'
accounting systems were being developed and were generally
ineffective in providing meaningful costing data. Furthermore,
part of the erection works was carried out by the SEB's own forces
and no separate cost record was kept.
3.16     An attempt has been made, however, to estimate the actual project
cost. The estimate was based on: (i) the actual disbursements in foreign
currency; (ii) an estimated profile of local expenditures derived from
transmission schemes for the South Asia countries; and, (iii) the historic
price variations for non-agricultural products in India, applied to the
local component over the implementation period. The resulting figures
should be considered only as indicative orders of magnitude of the likely
actual cost. In estimating actual cost for the Third Project, records show
that the foreign exchange cost increased by $46 million (54Z), from $85
million to $131 million due mainly to inflation stemming from the oil
crisis. To enable those works scheduled for execution under the Third
Project to be carried out, $30 million was included under the Fourth
Project and GOI provided the remaining $16 million. In calculating the
estimated local cost, it was assumed that local costs increased at the
average annual rate equal to that of non-agricultural products in India,2/
net of the 5? price contingency provided in the original cost estimate. On
this basis, local costs are estimated to have increased by about 777 from
$65.7 million estimated at appraisal to about $117 million. The local cost
increase substantially exceeds that of foreign costs because the material
and equipment involving foreign exchange was procured during a five-year
period, while civil works required an additional five years of project
execution. Based on the foregoing, the Third Project's estimated total
cost was about $247 million, about 642 higher than the appraisal estimate
of $150.7 million.
3.17     Devaluation of the Indian Rupee subsequent to appraisal of the
Fourth Transmission Project in 1975, together with an excess provision for
21 FY74-0, FY75-27.0, FY76-2.8, FY77-2.8, FY78-2.3, FY79-3.3, FY8O-21.2,
FY81-21.7, FY82-8.1, FY83-1.3, FY84-7.2, FY85-7.0, FY86-4.8,



-7-
price contingencies, which reflected sensitivity to inflation influenced by
the oil crisis, resulted in a slightly lower cost for the project as a
whole. While there was an under-expenditure in foreign exchange, local
costs increased. This was despite an over-provision for local price
inflation and was a result of the Project's execution taking six years
longer than estimated at appraisal. The excess of foreign exchange
amounted to about $23 million and the Bank approved a supplementary program
of work amounting to $23.3 million for inclusion in the Fourth Project
comprising extensions and additional equipment for the Maharashtra, West
Bengal, Gujarat and Bihar SEBs. In calculating the Fourth Project's
estimated local cost, the Indian non-agricultural product index was applied
to the estimated annual expenditures during the period of project
execution. On this basis, the increase in local cost was estimated at
about 452 from $40.8 million to about $59 million. In calculating the
total cost, the Fourth Project was considered separately from the
supplementary funding of $30 million to complete the Third Project, and
which is included in the calculation of the total cost for the Third
Project, and excluding the $23.3 million additional works. On this basis,
the estimated total cost of the Fourth Project was about $157 million,
about 3Z lower than the appraisal estimate of $161.5.
Project Justification
3.18     The rationale for the Third Transmission Project given in the
Appraisal Report was that the Credit-financed transmission was part of the
interregional transmission system under development in the country and
would therefore share the benefits expected of the interregional system.
These include inter alia reduction in the future amount of generation
capacity needed resulting from the diversification of load and capacity
achieved through interconnectors, installation of efficient larger units
and plants given interconnection of main load areas, and the achievement
of fuel savings from the optimal operation and balancing of thermal and
hydro capacity enabled through interconnection. All of this is valid.
The rationale for the Fourth Transmission Project was identical. It was
noted that it was not possible to calculate the economic rate of return on
the project, given the complexity of the massive transmission systema.
3.19     Cr. 377-IN was approved by the Board in May 1973 and became
effective in September 1973. Cr. 604-IN was approved by the Board in
December 1975 and became effective in October 1976. The lengthy delay was
mainly due to the time taken by beneficiary States to validate or agree to
obligations undertaken by their SEBs.
IV. PROJECT IHPLEKN 'ATION
Overview
4.01     The two transmission projects provided expanded transmission
capabilities, albeit late, as intended but were much less effective in
achieving their financial and institutional objectives.   Most of the
facilities provided under the projects are fuiictioning, but certain of
those provided under the Fourth Transmission Project have been delayed
several years and even a few still are under construction. This long delay



-8-
has hindered improvement of power services. The load despatch and
frequency control systems provided to optimize the benefits of systems
interconnection were also delayed by procurement and administrative
problems. Overall, the progress of the sector during the ten years of
implementation has been considerable, but lags well behind the original
intentions (Section V). The accomplishments of the two projects must be
viewed in the context of the experience of other power projects financed by
the Bank Group during the project implementation period, particularly from
the institutional perspective.
4.02     Credit 377-IN.  Standardization of Bid Documents to meet the
Association's Guidelines was done by CEA in consultation with the Bank.
The cut-off date for placing orders was November 1974. Bid enquiries were
issued beginning November 1973, but by October 1974 orders for only $29.5
million had been issued though bids of $29.7 million were under
consideration. Accordingly, the cut-off date was extended six months and
orders committing the full amount of the Credit were placed by the new
date.
4.03     There was unprecedented escalation in prices during 1973-74
following the major increase in oil prices. Consequently the price
contingency of 52 provided for the project was totally inadequate. The
cost of overrun was estimated at about US$30 million. At the request of
GOI, the Association made available the amount as a supplementary funds,
components under the Fourth Power Transmission project. Cr. 377-IN was
closed in June 1978, when fully disbursed.
4.04     Except from some deviR.ions, the contracts under Cr. 377-IN were
filled by the suppliers satisfactorily. However, there were delays,
sometimes considerable, in the supply which hindered completion of the
works.
4.05     Cr. 604-IN.  Tne cut-off date for placing orders was October 15,
1976. This was extended several times, however, to July 31, 1979 because
of the serious procurement difficulties which developed, which were a
contributing cause of the great implementation delays of some transmissions
line and substations (para 4.15).
4.06     It became evident that due to devaluation of thi Rupee and to
overestimation of project costs, the Credit was likely to be underspent by
US$20 million. GOI asked, therefore, to include additional works under
the Credit, and inclusion of US$22.26 million for such goods was agreed
with the Association. Annexes 3 and 4 give the allocations for each
beneficiary and their actual reimbursement claims for Cr. 377-IN and
Cr. 604-IN respectively.
Procurement
4.07     Because of the number of beneficiaries there were many individual
procurement actions. In Cr. 377-IN the SEBs, following past practice,
handled their own procurement.  To speed it, it was agreed that in the
case of awards to foreign contractors the SEBs would be given permission
to import the goods immediately and that review by other bodies would no
longer be necessary.  It was also agreed that all SEBs would use the



standard conditions of contract agreed under the pervious transmission
project, Cr. 242-IN. But under Cr. 604-IN (all contracts under Cr. 377-IN
having being awarded prior to Cr. 604-IN being made) the procedure for
handling procurement was changed (para 3.11). Procurement became a shared
responsibility of SEBs, which prepared specifications and tender documents.
evaluated bids and proposed awards, and the CEA, which vetted them and
submitted them to the Association for approval. The relative authority of
SEBs and CEA probably varied from state to state, and little is known of
their interaction. ,ften long delays occurred in submitting bid
evaluations and proposing awards to the Bank.
4.08     The frequent changes in CEA (and/or SEB) posture with regard to
individual procurement issues, exemplified by the disproportionate weight
they at times attached to minor bid deviations and, at other times, the
small weight they gave to major ones, mirrored a variety of influences.
These included, inter alia, the tendency to maximize the number of domestic
awards (which was co=,cnted upon in the Third Transmission Project
Appraisal Report as having been a problem in the second one (Cr. 242-IN)),
the frequent exaggeration of production capabilities by domestic suppliers
and a certain lack of technical knowledge or know-how. The end result was
to substantially delayed fieldwork. This was exacerbated by the inability
of some domestic nanufacturers to meet contract schedules and/or
quantities, due in part to the shortage of raw materials in the Indian
economy.
4.09     Long delays resulted from inaction, for example:
(a)  CEA sometimes informed the Association six months or more
after receipt of bids that the SEB had found that the
foreign bids were technically not responsive and the
domestic bids overpriced (or had not included a bid bond,
etc.), and therefore the SEB wished to call for new
tenders.
(b)  CEA would advise that certain bids (mainly foreign)
contained deficiencies, which often in fact were minor,
sometimes proposing that the contracts in which similar
deficiencies were excused should be awarded to another
bidder (usually domestic). The Association would object
to the inconsistency. Subsequent communications between
parties might take several months, and/or end in a new
round of bidding.
(c)  SEB/CEA sometimes invited bids from Indian suppliers with
questionable qualifications. In some instances they
acknowledgedly lacked the know-how; in one case their
agreement with a foreign firm to provide know-how had
lapsed. In another, the licence of the foreign firm to do
business in India appeared to have expired, but in all
cases months would go by before disentangling the
situation.



-10.
4.10     The Association queried many of the proposed awards, but in nearly
all cases eventually agreed to them after long discussions. In two
instances it threatened misprocurement and cancellation of the equivalent
amount of the Credit, but this never occurred. It is debatable whether
the exercise of such discipline by the Association might not have resulted
in more objective bid analyses, or at least speeded-up the process.
4.11     Some of the results of the procurement process were counter-
productive. In Bihar State the transmission line towers and fittings were
rebid because of alleged price collusion among the bidders, but
construction was then greatly delayed by the inability of the eventual
domestic supplier to provide anything like the amount of steel tonnage
ordered. In a second case, no fozeign manufacturers responded directly to
tenders for the supply of 220 KV ACBs (air blast circuit breakers) as they
no longer made them. Instead they made a proposal to supply 220 KV SF6
breakers (sulpha-hexafloride) which the Borrower rejected, awarding the
contract to a domestic supplier. This was in 1976, when air blast
breakers had become largely obsolecent because of SF6's superior
qualities.31
4.12     Argument went on for two years concerning the award of load
despatch and frequently control facilities for the Western Region EB and
Maharashtra State. Foreign firms provided a variety of such controls but
there were no qualified domestic supplies unless reliant on a foreign
firm. Neither the CEA, SEBs, nor Association itself were entirely
up-to-date on this rapidly developing field. The CEA and SEBs changed
their approach to bid evaluation and their thinking of the most suitable
equipment characteristics several times. The Association becamt highly
involved. Suppliers made several representations to protect their
interests. But in the end the load despatching equipment installed at
Regional headquarters and at the Maharashtra SEB despatching office were
fourd to be incompatible (para 4.14), which required a complicated
sof+:ware interlink developnent completed only in December 1987.
Load Despatch
4.13     Load despatch facilities had been identified as necessary for
interconnection of the five regional systems, each of which was also to
become well interconnected within. By 1985 much progress had been made in
physical interconnection. But delay in completing and making operative
the load despatch facilities limited interconnection performance from the
standpoint of transfer of power capability and the intraregional sale and
scheduling of power. The program for provision of load despatch required
but lacked single management and responsibility for overall design and
installation. The status is as follows:
4.14     Southern Region:  The installation was completed in the early
1980s and load despatch facilities are being fully utilized, but frequency-
control equipment is not in use because there is no margin of generating
capacity reserve.
3/ More recently, SF6 breakers are imported by India.



-11-
Northern Region: The facilities are fully operational.
Eastern Region:   The equipment, which was received in 1982-83,
was involved in a fire in a clearing agent storage. The equipment needing
repair, and that which he! to be replaced, were to be delivered in 1985.
The facility became fully operational in April 1986.
Western Region:   The facilities were substantially completed in
1982, but the Western Region's load despatching equipment is not compatible
with that of Maharashtra state, the systems of two manufacturers having
been installed. Apparently there was no CEA or SEB coordinative mechanism
to oversee this aspect. A software method of interfacing them was
completed only in late 1987.
Transmission
4.15     The following paragraphs give a brief history and the present
status of each beneficiary's transmission facilities, and discusses the
administrative, logistical and supervision limitations which developed.
4.16     Scme of the contracts ran into difficulty, particularly those for
conductors atid towers, in part due to the rise in cost of raw materials.
Moreover, there was a shortage of pertinent materials in the late 1970s.
Price escalation went far beyond the ceiling stipulated in the bid
documents and in some cases contract renegotiation became necessary.
4.17     At the outset of the project, the Association overestimatee the
capability of the respective SEBs/utilities for transmission design and
specifications, procurement, award of equipment and construction contracts,
and monitoring and supervision of ^onstruction. Between all entities the
transmission program, of which the projects formed a part, aggregated over
US$1 billion, spread over hundreds of coaLtracts including civil works.
Some en.ities had not undertaken work of the scale envisaged by the project
before, and their weaknesses became cleat in the course of project
implementation. The establishment of specific norms and arranRgements for
executing and monitoring these processes would have been useful, if not
essential. This was an area where the Association could have been active
as this vacuum was beyond the capacity of CEA to fill. However, it would
have been a very large and time consuming task for the Association, and
would have likely required full time supervision by specialized staff from
the New Delhi office.
4.18     To quote the first joint supervision mission for the Third and
Fourth Transmission Projects: "Thcse (two projects) are in essence,
program credits to assist in financing India's ongoing transmission
deve1opment program. In view of the difficulty in establishing precise
details of the program, the changes subsequent to appraisal, and overall
costs, it is not possible to provide meaningful figures of current project
cost. Also since supervision of work in the field beyond a spot check
would be impracticable, project supervision is confined to monitoring the
procurement position, the position with regard to outstanding covenants,



-12-
and the financial position of the SEBs relative to their covenanted rates
of return".
4.19     The amount of supervision for this two projects appears in
hindsight less than required; there were only three joint supervisions for
the Third and Fourth Transmission projects, and two subsequent ones for the
Fourth. The last supervision report for the Fourth Transmission project
was the only one to include a review of construction. On this occasion the
project officer called the Chief Engineers of the beneficiary SEBs together
and obtained some information on the status of their subprojects, but it
was difficult to obtain information in any depth. As an example, there was
an SEB which, having constructed and strung with conductor a 60 KV
transmission line, left it deenergized, and had the entire 70 km of
conductor stolen. The impression was that there were many irregularities.
This mission found that the CEA officials responsible for the two
transmission projects focussed only in procurement and knew little about
project construction and its progress. Aside from the general supervision
missions, there were a few procurement missions at intervals of six months
when procurement activity was at a peak. A more intense supervision by the
Association and more direct contact with the SEBs could have eventually
prevented some of the problems in the making, but it is doubtful whether it
would have been sufficient to overcome the SEB's weak implementation
capabilities.
4.20     The Associatio-i clearly overestimated CEA's supervisory
capabilities. The CEA, as "Coordinating Agency", was to provide summary
quarterly project progress reports to the Association but little was
forthcoming despite Association reminders.  Given the dispersed and
extensive nature of transmission construction, the multiplicity of SEBs
and other entities and their limited technical staff and the weakness of
CEA, this might have been anticipated. Consequently, information about
progress of construction and installation was virtually nil throughout
implementation. In retrospect one could say that a more direct contact of
the Association with the beneficiaries could have been instrumental in
providing advice, instill project discipline and institute adequate
monitoring particularly in the weakest States, such as Bihar, Orissa and
West Bengal. More field supervision would have been clearly beneficial;
the stationing of a Bank Power Engineer in Delhi would have contributed
greatly to achieving this.
4.21     The performance of the individual beneficiaries under the two
y ojects is given below. Annex 5 gives the data on scheduled completions
and the date of actual completion of the various transmission lines. 4/
Disbu.sements
4.22     Annex 6 shows a comparison of projected an actual disbursements
for both credits. By the original closing date (9/30/78) of Cr. 377-IN,
disbursements represented 822 of the total credit amount and it took 372
4/  The two Credits provided for the installation of substation facilities
in conjunction with the transmission lines.  They experienced similar
delays but were completed well before the transmission.



-13-
more time than forecast to entirely disburse it. The disbursement
performance of Cr. 604-IN was worse; only 711 of the credit was disbursed
by the original closing date (6/30/81) and it took 611 more than the
forecast time to entirely disburse the credit. These delays are a
reflection of the protracted procurement process.
Bereficiaries under Credit 377-IN
Assam State Electricity Board
4.23     Procurement action was taken promptly by the SEB, bids opened in
May 1974 and orders placed December 1974. Construction was started in
1974/75 and the works completed in 1977/78.
Karnataka Electricity Board
4.24     Bids were opened in May 1974 for most equipment and Letters of
Intent issued September 1974, but delay occurred in the supply of power
transformers and other equipment of from 4 months to 2 years. All the
works were completed by December 1981, up to three years late.
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board
4.25     Bids were opened in May 1974 and orders placed between November
1974 and April 1975. Host of the works were to have been commissioned
between 197416 but materials started arriving only in 1976. All the works
were completed by December 1977.
Orissa State Electricity Board
4.26     Bids were opened over mid-1974 through mid-1978 and orders placed
from 1975 to 1978. The works were completed over 1978 through 1983
compared with the 1978/80 targets. 5/
Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
4.27     The tenders were received at various times during 1974 and orders
placed by late 1975. Major delays in supplies occurred, particularly of
towers and conductors (1-2 years). Nevertheless, of the six transmission
lines, one was completed each year in 1977, 1978 and 1979. The remainder
was completed by 1982, with the exception of the Avadi-Thiruvallore line
which was completed much later.
Beas Construction Board
4.28     Works under the Credit covered the 400 KV transmission line
between Dehar-Panipat and associated substation installations. Bids were
5/  Distinction is made between the expected project completion date shown
on the Key Project Data Sheet, which is based on the Appraisal
Report/Credit Agreement, and the (target) completion date stated in
this section and Annex 5. The latter reflects the SEB expectations at
the time equipment orders were placed.



-14-
opened during 1974/75 and orders placed over 1975/76. Major delays in
delivery, both by domestic and foreign firms, occurred in the supply of
conductor accessories (18 months), vibration dampers (4 years), ground wire
accessories (3 years), preformed armor rods (1 -year), insulators (1 year)
and towers (6-18 months). The transmission line was completed in June
1979.
Xerala Electricity Board
4.29     Bids were opened in April 1974 and orders placed end-1974.  There
were delays in the supply of materials of from 5-20 months but the
transmission lines was comuissioned in 1978.
Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU)
4.30     The single 220 KV transmission line and other works were
commissioned on schedule in 1978.
Tata Electric Company
4.31     Works were completed as scheduled.
Beneficiaries under Credit 604-IN
Bihar State Electricity Board
4.32     Bids were called in September 1976.  When those for towers and
accessories for the 400 KV and 220 KV lines were opened, it was found that
the suppliers had in effect formed a cartel and quoted nearly identical
prices. The bids were rejected and the participants requested to submit
new ones in April 1977, 11 months after bid opening. However, a
controversy then developed over the size of cond'rtor to be used on the
400 KV line: BSEB had stipulated one size but the CEA had standardized
another. A year elapsed before the SEB agreed to the CEA standard. New
bids were received in June 1978 but it was only in August 1979 that orders
were placed.  Several lines are still u,:er construction, with completion
not expected before mid-1989. CEA has yet to agree to import by BSEB of a
900 meter long, single core cable to replace the stolen stand-by Ganga
Crossing power cable.
4.33     These contracts ran into serious cost escalation given the long
delays noted above. Promptness in decision making by BSEB and appropriate
monitoring and proper follco-up by CEA and the Ministry would have
resulted in considerable saving of money and time.
4.34     The load despatch facilities were completed and are functional.
The transmiesion lines to be built by BSEB consisted of (i) the 400 KV
line from Patratu to Biharsharif via Tenughat, instead of Patratu-Ganga
as originally planned; (ii) the 220 KV line Bodhgaya-Biharsharif-Patwah-
Muzzafarpur; (iii) the 220 KV river-crossings of the Ganga and Fatwah; and
(iv) a 132 KV cable crossing beneath the Ganga. The lines are very
important to the strengthening of the power system in Bihar, as the Bihar-
sharif substation is in the geographical center of the state and the 400



-15-
KV line would link it with Patratu generating station in the south and
generating stations elsewhere, and the 220 KV line to a new thermal station
in the north. Lacking these facilities, little over 100 MW can be
transmitted over the existing 110 KV system to the north compared with
about 450 MW that could be made available with the lines. Power supply in
Bihar ccntinues to be poor, and is marked by frequent power interruptions.
Although the Credit was closed in mid-1983, some of the works were still
in the initial stages by the (Annex 5). The Board therefore had to
procure substantial material with its owv funds.
Gujarat State Electricity Board
4.35     The Board took prompt procurement action but encountered
difficulties with contracts for conductors and accessories. It made
alternative arrangements for obtaining these materials and completed the
extensive program almost on original schedule.
Maharashtra State Electricity Board
4.36     Bids were invited in 1976/77.  There were delays in the supply of
conductors of from 6 months to 3 years, the main reason being the non-
availability of raw material. An acute shortage of the proper grade of
aluminum developed because production in most aluminum plants was
restricted due to power curtailment. Also delayed were the synchronous
condenser (1 year), shunt capacitors (3 years), and switchgear (1-3
years). Three of the transmission lines were completed in 1978/79, two in
1979/80, seven lines between 1980/83, and the rest by 1986. The MSEB load
despatch center is fully operational.
West Bengal Electricity Board
4.37     The bids were opened in 1976 and 1978 and most of the equipment/
material received during 1979/81. However, work progress was far from
satisfactory with line completion as late as 1988. The Durgapur-Jeerat
Kasba 220 KV line, 290 km, is not being constructed as it has become in
the meantime redundant given the development of the NTPC grid in the
region. The SEB however has completed the load despatch facilities included
under the credit. The reason for not having expedited and built the
transmission appear to have been the more urgent need, for new lines
(and substations) outside the program of Cr. 604-IN as the result of
changed system requirements, and the inability of the SEB to raise funds
for both the additional works and the works under Cr. 604-IN. This is one
instance where the project was delayed by the beneficiary's lack of funds.
Apparently, the delay in Cr. 604-IN works did not result in any constraints
in evacuating the power generated. But service in West Bengal continues to
be poor with frequent power interruptions and power curtailment on a
rotating basis.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
General
5.01     During project implementation there was erratic but positive



-16-
movement of SEBs' financial position. Because of the long time required
for preparation of accounts, the financial results were available only
until 1982. While in 1974 only three of ten SEBs earned a rate of return
of 9.5Z, seven were earning a return of this level during the period
1979-81, (Annex 6). This ROR requirement was changed by the 1983 Amendment
of the Electricity Act, which became effective in April 1985, establishing
a minimum 3Z ROR on assets after interest.
Tariffs
5.02     Tariffs were increased during this period irf an erratic pattern,
reflecting, inter alia, social and political considerations by the State
Governments. There was not noticeable change during this period in the
SEB's approach to tariff setting. Increases in electricity rates were
implemented at two or three years intervals in amounts which barely kept
pace with general price increases. Some rates actually deteriorated in
real terms and in some cases subsidies, particularly to the agricultural
consumers, increased. Moreover, tariff structures became in several cases
more cumbersome to administer. In several instances the low tension rates
departed more from the economic cost of supply on account of the subsidies.
In summary, there is no evidence that the two projects were instrumental in
introducing any changes of notice in the level or structure of electricity
rates or in the principles or practices of the SEBs in this respect.
Rural Electrification Subsidies
5.03     Under the two credits, undertakings require State Governments to
subsidize losses from rural electrification, either fully or partially to
enable the SEBs to earn a rate of return of 9.51.6/   This policy was put
in practice by most of the States except Assam (no subsidies have been
paid despite representations by the SEB) and Kerala (due to achievement of
return without the subsidy). However, as discussed below, payments have
been irregular and late.
Assam   -  The Board was unable to achieve a return of 9.52.  The losses
due to RE operations over 1975-83 aggregated approximately Rs. 360 million.
The State Government has made no response to the SEB's representations to
ameliorate the situation.
Kerala - The rate of return of the Board was about 9.52 from 1979
onwards. The SEB claimed a subsidy for losses in the 1975-1978 period, but
there has not been a favorable response from the State Government. The SEB
is still pursuing the matter.
6/  Under a subsequent loan, cash generation equal to at least 202 of
annual capital investment was, instead, convenanted. Subsequent to
this, a rate of return covenant was re-introduced in loans made to two
states.  The rural electrification subsidy was subsequently limited to
a maximum of 102 of SEB gross revenue under the Rural Electrification
III Loan Agreement.



-1~'-
Karnataka - The Board earned a rate of return of more than 9.5? from
1975-82 except during 1978, when it wys 8.4X. The State Government has
since paid Rs. 58 million subsidy to make up the deficiency that year.
Madhya Pradesh - The Board earned a return of more than 9.52 except for
1981 and 1982. However the Board claimed reimbursement of RE losses
irrespective of the rate of return achieved, which the State paid. From
1975-1983 the State paid Rs. 2145 million against claims of Rs. 2741
million.
Orissa - The State reimbursed RE losses up to 1977 amounting to Rs. 346
million. For the period 1978-83 net interest owed the State by the SEB
was Rs 428 million, which is considered a contingent liability; the State
is considering offsetting this against the ciaims for RE losses.
Tamil Nadu -    The Board earned more than 9.5Z return since FY 1977.  Some
subsidies (1974 and 1975) were paid.
Bihar - The SEB earned a return of 9.52 in 1983 and 1984. For 1976-1981
the SEB has fully reimbursed RE losses of Rs. 1179 million.
Gujarat - From 1977, except for 1980, the SEB earned a return of 9.5Z. RE
losses for 1980 have been paid.
Maharashtra -      The Board has generally earned a return in excess of 9.5?
from 1975. RE losses aggregating about Rs. 250 million were paid through
1985.
West Bengal -    The State has paid the subsidy since 1977.  Of the Rs. 815
million RE losses incurred since then, Rs. 400 million have been paid.
5.04     As the finalizing of annual accounts and their audit takes an
inordinately long time, the claims for the RE loss subsidy are often made
a year or two late. Verification of Government takes additional time and
the subsidy may be paid a couple of years or more after the loss is
experienced.
Unpaid Interest on Loans
5.05     Both Credits 377-IN and 604-IN stipulate that State Governments
undertake "to waive or dispose off their claims against their respective
SEBs for unpaid interest on loans advanced to such Boards". Waiver of
interest accumulated up to March 31, 1970 under Credit 377, and up to
March 31, 1976 under Credit 604 was to be effected. Annex 8 gives the
situation in 1975 and 1980 of all states. It can be seen from the Annex
that the State Governments did not comply with this agreement and that the
situation indeed worsened.



-18-
Capitalization of Interest Durint Construction
5.06     Both credit agreements incorporated covenants which would lead to
the capitalization of interest during construction. Guidelines were
prepared for this purpose but many SEBs objected because they said it
would seriously affect their financial position and federal tax liability.
The decision to capitalize interest during construction was only notified
in late-1986. However, no decision has been taken regarding the revision
of the federal income tax as applicable to SEBs.
Long-Run Marginal Cost Study
5.07     Under Cr. 604-IN, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal
SEBs were required to carry out a pricing study based on long-run marginal
cost principles. Eventually nine SEBs made such studies. They were
commented upon by the Bank, which found them quite accurate but recommended
improvement in the definition of the information used, the use of shadow
pricing when relevant, and the making of the calculation on the basis of
average marginal cost rather than incremental cost, that is, on the long
term investment program. It is difficult to say what impact these studies
have had on SEB tariffs since neither GOI nor State Governments adhere to
long-run marginal cost pricing principles.
Audit
5.08     Covenants in both credits provided that the SEBs should have
their accounts ready and audited within six months of the end of the
fiscal year, a demanding expectations given the long-known status and
tardiness of many SEB account. Delays of more than two years affected
submission o5 a few SEB audited accounts.
Amendments to Electricity Supply Act
5.09     Under Cr. 377-IN the Borrower undertook to amend certain of the
financial and accounting provision of the Act. This was carried out
through the Amendment of the Electricity Act of 1983 (para 5.01).
VI.  DEVELOPKENT OF THE POWER SECTOR DURING PROJECT IKPLDMENTATION
6.01     The two transmission projects wire integral to power sector
development in it entirety. This section describes sector growth during
project implementation, 1974-1985, and the weaknesses and limitations
which remain. In brief, generating capacity increased very substantially
but was still unable to meet the increasing demand; transmission capacity
was increased but continues to lag behind generating capacity; and
electricity service improved somewhat and, of course, served an
increasingly large share of the population. The installation of tubewells
increased spectacularly under the Rural Electrification Prograri.
6.02     Gross planned and actual outlays for the power sectee during the
Sixth Plan (1980-85) are given below:



-19-
SLITM PLAN POWER INVSTHENT
(1980-1985)
Transmission    Rural
and Distri-      Electrifi-  Miscel-
Generation    bution            cation       laneous    Total
-(M-----------------(Million Re.)------------------------
Proposed         118,000        54,200        15,800        4,500      192,500
outlay
Actual            91,600        36,700        13,300        2,400      144,000
Actual as Z           77            67            84           53            74
of proposed
Actual as Z           63            26             9            2           100
sector
investment
Transmissior
6.03     When the Bank Group started financing transmission, the
expenditure on generation had been 55Z compared to 242 on transmission. It
was considered that the outlays on transmission should be much greater.
-his imbalance has not really changed much since then, reflecting the
relative paucity of the resources allocated to transmission. The situation
is manifested by unsatisfactory voltage conditions, high transmission
losses and less than optimal utilization of generating facilities. Table
3, Annex 8 indicates that the annual investment on transmission and
distribution averages only 26Z. In a country of India's size, with
widespread distribution of population, comerce and industry, and scattered
energy resources, a higher figure on the order of 45Z should be expected.
Table 4, Annex 8 gives statistics on the national growth of transmission
and distribution facilities, 1974-82, and indicates an average annual
increase of 8.3Z in transmission lines (kms).
6.04     Annex 8 describes the growth in load, generation capacity and
transmission facilities during the project implementation period. It
discusses tariffs and power losses. The tables in Annex 8 provide
statistics on the foregoing.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
7.01     The project justification in the appraisal report was made in
qualitative terms: the benefits obtained by building transmission lines
to interconnect systems, with attendant savings in the amount of generating
capacity and improved reliability (para 3.16). Had the justification been
framed in economic rate of return (ERR) terms, it is evident that the
recalculation of the ERR on project completion would be much lower in view
of the great delays in commissioning the facilities and their increased
cost. This aside, it is also obvious that the transmission facilities had



-20-
to be provided sooner or later as there is no substitute for them in the
long run. Their rationale at appraisal continues to be valid.
7.02     The justification may also be considered in terms of the cost of
the inefficiency of implementation, that is, benefits foregone. It would
be difficult to measure them but for example, in the States of West Bengal
(para 4.37) and Bihar (para 4.32) where something is known of the impact
of the delay on power supply, and in Maharashtra, Orissa and others, it
was obviously economically very costly.
VIII. INSTITUTIONAL DIVELOPHEUT
8.01     Measured by appraisal objectives and their degree of achievement
ten years later, institutional development was minimal and largely confined
to the financial side of the sector. The quality of implementation of
the two projects by SEBs was on average poor and there was no significant
organizational and administrative development of notice.
8.02     The Association had little or no immediate contact with the SEBs
during the implementation of the two projects (para 4.20) and therefore
could not provide advice on management/organization improvement, nor on
project implementation. Clearly, unless the Association works with the
SEBs directly it can have little impact on them.
8.03     The Project Performance Audit Report dated June 10, 1980, on the
Second Power Transmission Project, pointed out the difficulty facing the
Bank Group in adequately carrying out supervision work, other than
procurement, since subprojects were scattered all over India and due to
the absence of a close working relationship between the Bank Group and the
SEBs. It suggested a more direct involvement with the SEBs in projects of
this nature.
8.04     This is also the case of the Third and Fourth Transmission
Projects and, indeed, of the Rural Electrification Projects. In fact, it
has been the continuing dilemma of the Bank Group's power sector lending
in India. The process of dealing with or influencing SEBs entirely
through intermediaries - GOI/CEA in the case of the two transmission
projects and the Rural Electrification Corporation for rural
electrification - demonstrated its limitations. The SEBs were requ?.red to
achieve certain rates of return, ratios of self-investment and so forth,
but with little hands-on Bank contact. As a 1982 appraisal report puts
it, despite legislative changes (in 1978) little attempt was made by the
SEBs to give practical effect to the 'measures' because of conflicts
arising from the interpretation of amendments and because the technical
aspects had not been fully evaluated by SEBs and State Governments. There
was a failure to convince SEBs of the desirability of certain changes, and
it is in this context that their limited institutional development must be
assessed.
8.05     Possibly because of the supervision experience (para 4.19 & 4.20),
there have been no further transmission projects of this type finarLced by
the Bank.  NTPC was subsequently given the task of constructing multi-state
transmission lines.  However, NTPC is confined to construction of bulk



-21-
power transmission, mainly 400 KV, and does not construct, for example, 110
KV or 60 KV lines, which the SEBs will have to continue to provide.
IX.  IOUOVU AND MM PZUFORMWC
9.01     The Borrower's performance is, in this case, that of GOI/CIA,
SEBs and other entities. CKA's performance was disappointing. Following
reorganization, it functioned neither as a catalytic force nor as one
which provided sector leadership. To be fair, as time went on its duties
were increased to the point that it could not cope vith them all. In
particular, it was not equipped to act as the coordinator of the Third and
Fourth Transmission Projects beyond its role of procurement intermediary.
Few of the SEBs made much institutional progress and half of them carried
out the project's physical implementation very poorly. This is
disappointing, but given the vell-recognized execution capacity weakness
of many SEBs and the absence of a "hands on* approach by the Bank, it is
not too surprising.
9.02     The Association's performance is largely covered in Section
VIII. The Association does not seem to have had a proper appreciation of
the demands made by the two projects in terms of implementation,
organization and logistics, nor of what its own supervision objectives
should be. It supervised the project predominantly from a procurement
viewpoint, on which it expended considerable effort. It closed the
Credits when fully disbursed, at a point where the projects' objectives of
providing transmission facilities were far from being accomplished. The
majority of the physical implementation accomplishments, and problems,
occurred after closing of the second credit. The tieing of disbursements
to progress, instead of merely disbursing against invoice, might have been
effective. The direct contact of the Association during the construction
phase with executing agencies could have been highly beneficial.
9.03     A project officer had another perspective of the Association's
performance: the history must place in perspective what the Bank tried to
do with these sector-wide credits which cannot be seen in isolation (the
Third and Fourth Transmission Projects were sector-wide in that, together,
they embraced most SEBs). The Bank really did not try to straighten out
the SEBs, although many of them were beneficiaries of the two credits, but
tried to maintain a sector dialogue with a view to strengthening the
coordination function of the center. In doing so the Bank fostered the
creation of NTPC which should become the main vehicle of its power lending
and sector dlalogue in subsequent years. The Bank started and continued
the discussion on improvements in sector legislation and it initiated the
cumbersome proccss of improving SEB accounting and finance. From this
perspective, the Association's accomplishments can be seen to be brighter.
X. PROJECT IMPACT
10.01    The overall impact of the projects is difficult to assess.  They
helped to improve the country's transmission facilities and enabled a
significant load growth to be s,pnlied.  They assisted the momentum toward
improving the rate of return of the SEBs through reimbursement of rural
electrification losses, but had relatively little impact on tariff levels,



-22-
or on the resolution of the SEB problem arising out of the accumulated
interest on debt owed State Governments. Some SEBEs are becoming interested
in long renge marginal cost analyses, but even here the effect on tariffs
is uncertain. Under the Third Transmission project a system planning study
of national power development was made, which seems largely illustrative so
far. The two transmission projects entailed construction on a scale large
enough for it to offer the opportunity of being used as a vehicle to
develop the organizational and administrative abilities of the SEBs.
However, this was not done as is otherwise usual under Bank project
lending.
10.02    Of course, other power projects financed by the Bank Group were
carried out during this period and must share with the two transmission
projects the attribution of any project impact. From the pattern of
sector investment and sector growth (Section VI), it is apparent that
total investment (including those financed by the Bank Group) managed to
keep facilities broadly abreast of load growth. Transmission investments
have also improved the efficiency of the power system in the country by
facilitating power interchange within and among the states. The record on
transmission losses itself is however all but impressive; transmission and
distribution losses did in fact increase over those years, although much
oi it is due to the expansion of the system and the weak distribution
networks, especially in rural areas (Annex 8, para 7 and Table 17).
10.03    But the projects provided no impetus to improve the SEBs
institutionally and organizationally. The Bank Group, in focussing its
efforts on the Center, may in effect have preempted the growth of informal
relationships between the SEBs and the Center and the development of
greater autonomy for the SEBs to handle their own affairs which might have
otherwise taken place over a ten year period of rapid sector growth.
10.04    The perception of this situation in the Bank was slow to evolve.
Finally it was recognized in 1984 that the strategy of improving SEBs by
lending to, and increasing leverage of, the Center was having little
discernible positive effect on SEB's capabilities. This was especially
marked by the SEBs' failure to generally adopt the financial undertakings
and principles set forth by the Center. Consequently the Bank came to
realize that it mus; work with the SEBs directly - rather than by a form
of remote control. Accordingly, a considerable volume of lending is now
to be channelled directly to the SEBs and Bank staff has resumed direct
contacts with them and the State governments.
10.05    Three Bank loans made in 1985 already signalled this change:
(a) Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Project, US$157.4 Million and
SDR 134.4 Million, in which the Madhya Pradesh SEB is the
executing agency;
(b) Chandrapur Thermal Power Project, US$300 Million, in which
the Maharashtra SEB is the executing agency; and
(c) Kerala Hydroelectric Project, US$176 Million, in which the
Kerala SEB is the executing agency.



-23-
10.06    The Appraisal Reports for the projects contain explanations of
this change as follows:
'Over the last few years the Bank has assisted GOI substantially
expanding its centrally owned generating capacity. In the past
two years, however, the emphasis of Bank lending has begun to
shift from the projects owned and operated by the Central
Government to projects owned and operated by SEBs.' Further, with
regard to institution building, 'the Bank's efforts will be
broadened to encompass individual SEBs, where substantial efforts
are needed to strengther. management, operation and finances'.
XI. CONCLUSIONS
11.01    The Third and Fourth Transmission Projects had mixed results.
Virtually all the facilities the Association financed were completed and
commissioned, but many only after long delay. The cost of the facilities
increased substantially because of delay and price escalation. The actual
project cost is not known, because of inability to obtain subproject
costs, because of deficiencies in the accounting system and record keeping
of the beneficiaries. Service conditions on the national grid improved
somewhat. However, because of the increase in generation investments over
the period, the share of transmission in sector investment remained about
the same as before these projects were initiated, only 262, and the need
remains to increase it substantially.
11.02    Some progress was made on the financial side, inter alia with
respect to improvement in the SEBs' rate of return. Institutional
development of the SEBs was minimal. Only about half the SEBs completed
the physical works within the original schedule. The remainder completed
(or are completing) them very late, and their construction performance was
poor. There were many procurement difficulties arising from the tardiness
and indecisiveness of the entities involved, an important factor in the
delays. Another factor was the shortage of certain goods and materials in
the country.
11.03    The Association overestimated CEA's supervision capabilities.  It
might have improved project results by studying the level of capability
and organization of each SEB and providing advice at the outset to set up
the construction organization and supervision arrangements. It could have
bettered the SEBs institutionally had supervision missions visited them
regularly to review the financial position, discuss problems and so forth.
Questions which arise in this respect include whether the Association could
have provided adequate supervision, and if not, whether it should be doing
transmission projects of this nature at all. The project experience
indicates that the Bank did not have the staff resources to supervise the
widely dispersed transmission projects under the responsibility of mostly
weak SEBs. If the Bank were to again operate under similar circumstances,
it would be advisable to set up a supervision group in Delhi.
11.04    The projects introduced a pattern which was to last ten years,
the divorce of SEBs from Bank contact. In the transmission project the



CEA functioned as an intermediary through which all SEB procurement and
progress reporting were channelled to the Association. This was replicated
in a series of concurrent credits for rural electrification, the REC
serving as intermediary with regard to SEB obligations. The adverse
effect of this state of affairs has been described in the body of the
report. Inasmuch as the SEBes are collectively much the largest and
widespread body in the sector, the impact of this situation on sector
development was similarly negative.
11.05    The Bank came to recognize in 1983 that this system had isolated
the SEBs from any meaningful dialogue with the Bank on institutional
development. Consequently the bank modified its position by shifting the
emphasis of projects from the Central Government domain to the States'
domain, with the intention of improving the operational and project
implementation capability and the financial viability of the SEBs, on the
individual SEB basis. To this effect three loans for hydroelectric power
and one for thermal power were made to the states by 1985. Provided the
momentum of this shift is maintained by making several such SEB loans a
year an improvement in the SEBs is likely in the future.



AMEX 1
-25-                       Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD TRANSMISSION PROJECT (Credit 377-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COST ESTIMATE
1973-77
Entire Transmission       Transmission under
Program                 Credit 377
I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project
Total        Financed by
(US Million)        Credit
Northern Region (BEAS)
Punjab/Haryana                        91.7              22.1              15.8
Rajasthan                             52.9
Delhi
Desu                                   8.7               8.7               4.9
Western Region
Madhya Pradesh                        85.5              20.3               8.9
Tata Power 1/                        127.4               8.6               5.8
Eastern Region
Orissa                                88.5              22.0              12.8
North Eastern
Assam                                 26.4                5.0              2.5
Southern Region
Kerala                                26.7              25.0               8.5
Myso:e                                65.3              22.7              12.4
Tamil Nadu                            43.5               10.9              8.4
GOI
Northern Regional Board                5.0                5.0              5.0
Southern Regional Board                0.4               0.4               0.4
TOTAL                    622.0              150.7             85.0
1/ For Maharashtra State, of which the Tata facilities form part.



-26-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Costs
US$ Equivalent
Million
Conductors and Groundwire                                 20.4
Towers                                                     8.5
Insulators                                                 2.9
Transformers                                              13.2
Switchgear                                                 8.4
Capacitors                                                  3.3
PLCC/Load Despatch                                         9.7
Control and Relay Panels                                  1.3
Power Cables                                               2.4
Miscellaneous Equipment                                     2.6
Sub-total                                          73.24
Contingencies:  (i) Physical                        7.4
(ii) Price                         4.4
TOTAL                                              85.00



-27-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
FOURTH TRANSMISSION PROJECT (Credit 604-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COST ESTIMATE
Transmission Projects
financed under Credit 604
1977-79
Entire                                         Financed by
SEB                Transmission Program                 Total              Credit
US Million                    US Million         US Million
Maharashtra               213                             60.9               37.2
Gujarat                   117                            44.4                30.0
Bihar                      89                            24.6                20.3
West Bengal                90                             28.9               22.5
TOTAL               509                                                111.0
Western Regional Board                                                        5.0
Eastern Regional Board                                                        5.0
120.0
TOTAL                                              158.8
Breakdown by Category
Transmission Line and                                     US Million
Substation Equipment
Conductors                                                  19.9
Towers                                                      18.6
Insulators                                                   3.9
Power Transformers                                          10.4
Switchgear                                                  10.1
Capacitors                                                   3.7
PLCC/Load Dispatch                                          21.9
Control Panels                                               1.0
Power Cables                                                 3.0
Miscellaneous                                                1.2
Sub-total                                             93.7
Physical Contingencies                                       4.9
Price Contingencies                                         19.4
Sub-total                                            116.0



-28-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Associated Civil Works
Civil Works, Erection and Overheads                        30.5
Physical Contingencies                                      1.5
Price Contingencies for Civil Works                         8.8
Sub-total                                             40 8
TOTAL                                                158.7
Total Cos        Financed by
of Project       Credit 604
US Million
158.8             120.0
45.8              30.0 1/
207.3             150.0
1/ Amounted included in Cr. 604-IN to complete works originally provided
for in Cr. 377-IN.



-29-
ANNEX 3
INDIA
THIRD TRANSMISSION PROJECT (Credit 377-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UTILIZATION OF CREDIT BY BENEFICIARIES
Allocations      Amount         Import
Allocation      under Part        Utilized       Component
under Credit   'B', Credit   Rs. M  US$ M    US$ M
Beneficiary          377-IN ($ M)       604-IN
Assam SEB                 2.47             -         24       2.71       0.50
Kerala SEB                8.39             -        104      11.54         -
Madhya Pradesh SEB        8.93             -         82       9.20       1.40
Mysore (Karnataka EB)  12.21               -        177      19.88       0.04
Orissa SEB               12.69             -        207      23.24       2.53
Tamil Nadu SEB            8.49             -        110      12.36       1.45
Delhi Electric
Supply Undertaking    4.56               -         57       6.40       4.02
Beas Construction
Board                  15.89             -        178      19.98       5.26
Tata Power Co.            5.89             -         43       4.85       4.34
Southern Regional EB    0.48               -         16       1.88       1.18
Northern Regional EB    5.00               -         38       4.29       3.58
TOTAL          85.00          30.00 1/ 1,036    116.33 1/  20.40
1/ US$30 million provided in Cr. 604 for facilities included in Cr. 377-IN but
not done under it. Thus total amount allocated from both Credits 377-IN and
604-IN is $115.00 M versus actual utilization US$116 million.



-30-
ANNEX 4
INDIA
FOURTH POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT (Credit 604-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UTILIZATION OF CREDIT BY BENEFICIARIES
Amount         Import
Allocation          Utilized       Component
under Credit   Rs M       US$ M    US$ M
Beneficiary                             (uS$ M)
Bihar SEB                                16.00       148.671   17.138        6.12
Gujarat SEB                              24.00       219.639   25.307        6.16
Maharastra SEB                           30.25       381.017   43.901        5.09
West Bengal SEB                          17.75       169.327   19.510        0.28
Western RegionaL Electricity Board        5.00        39.732    4.578        4.23
Eastern Regional Electricity Board        5.00        63.79      7.350       5.78
Provision for Facilities
under Credit 377-IN                    30.00       271.930   31.332          -
Consultant Services (CEA)                                        0.758       0.758
Unallocated                              20.00
Cancelled                                                        0.134
TOTAL                           150.00                 150.000      28.41



-31-                        ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT IIT (Credit 377-IN & Credit 604-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STATUS OF TRANSMISSION LINE IMPLEMENTATION
Length Km.            Date of Comple-
Project                Voltage            Esti-  Actual           tion of works
mated                 Scheduled  Actual/
or anti-
cipated
ASSAM ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Samagiri-Mirani S/C    220           176 kms    176 kms         3/75        3/78
BEAS CONSTRUCTION BOARD
Dehra-Pampat S/C        400          280 kms    262 kzs         1/79        6/79
KARNATAKA (MYSORE) ELECTRICITY BOARD
Hootgalli-Bavalisatra  220           90 kms      80.5 kms       3/78        3/78
S/S. (Mysore-Kerala
Border)
Sharavathi-Munirabad   220           230 kms    271 kms         3/78        9/80
S/C
Peenya-Hoodi D/C        220          35 kns      35 kms         3/78        1/79
Nagjhari-Hubli D/C      220          65 kms      63 kms         3/78        9/79
Hubli-Munirabad II      220          137 kms    137 kms         3/78        3/80
Ckt.
Munirabad-Shahabad      220          234 kms    236 kms         3/78        9/80
SC



-32-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
KADHYA PRADESH ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Itarsi-Barwaha II        220           13 kmrs    193 kms         74-75       6/78
Ckt.
Itarsi-Bina (RAPP)       220          '96 kms    296 kms          75-76        8/76
S/C
Barwaha-Chhandi S/C    132             113 kms    113 kms          73-74       8/76
Bhilai-Seoni S/C         132           236 kms    236 kms          73-74       2/77
Satpura-Chindwara r    132             80 kms      80 kms          73-74       8/76
on D/C
Chindwara-Seoni I on   132             77 kms      77 kms          74-75       12/77
D/C
ORISSA S1ATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Talcher-Rourkela S/C   220             176 kms    192 kms          7/78        7/78
Balimela-Thiruvali       220           224 kms    224 kms          12/78       11/79
Talcher-Joda II Ckt.   220             149 kms    149 kms          3/81        7/82
Khurda-Canjam-           132           112 kms    112 kms         4/80         8/82
Chatarpur S/C
Joda-Rairangpur          132           96 kms      90 kms         4/80         5/80
S/C
Chiplima-Bolangir        132           72 kms      110 kms        4/80         1/81
S/C
Jajpur Road to           132           108 kms    110 kms         4/80         5/81
Paradeep S/C
Chainpal-Chowdalar       132           87 kms      87 kms          12/78       6/78
S/C



-33-
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
TAMIL NADU ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Kalpakam-Chingleput    230            30 kms      30 kms          12/72       7/77
D/C
Chingleput-Korattur    230            70 kms      55 kms          3/73        81-82
S/C
Chingleput-              230          105 kms    105 kms          3/74        1/79
Thiruvelam S/C
Kalpakkam-Neyvelli       230          130 kms    140 kms          3/77        3/82
S/C
Enmore-Avadi-Thiru-    110            50 kms      44 kms          2/78        8/78-
Vallore S/C                                                                   3/82
Chingleput-Kanchee       110          35 kms      35 kms          3/79        3/82
S/C
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Idduki-Mysore S/C        220 kv       275 kms    276.6 kms        -           4/78
DELHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNDERTAKING
TRANSMISSION LINES
Narela-Najafgarh-        220          70 kms      70 kms          77-78       77-78
Meharauli-Bodarpur



-34-
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
BIHAR STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Bodhgaya-Patna-          220          202 kms    202 kms                      3/89
Hajipur-Muzzafarpur
D/C
Ganga Crossing D/C       220          10 kms      10 kms          3/82-       3/89
6/83
Bodhgaya-Patralu         400          269 kms    269 kms          6/82-       6/89
S/C                                                              12/82
Power Cable Ganga        132          10 kms      3.10 kms        3/81-       4/82
Crossing                                                          7/81
GUJARAT ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Godhra-Kadana O/C        220          75 kms      75 kms          3/80-       3/82
3/81
Wanakbori-Godhra         220          35 kmas     32.5 kms        6/79        1/80
S/C
Wanakbori-Asoj           220          65 kms      65 kms          12/80       12/80
D/C
Ukai-Valthan-            220          110 kms    62 kms           3/79        12/78
Navsari D/C
Candhinagar-Mehsena    220            55 kms      55 kms          12/78       12/78
S/C
Jetpur-Condal D/C        220          30 kms      26 kms          3/79        10/80
Jetpur-Valabhipur        220          165 kms    183 kms          3/81-       3/82
S/C                                                               12/81
Jetpur-Bhalia-I          220          170 kms    170 kms          3/82        12/82
on D/C
Asoj-Karamsad D/C        220          60 kms      50 kms          3/79        10/79



-35-
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
Wanakbori-Ranasan        220          85 kms      78.5 kms        3/81        10/81
D/C
MAHARASHTRA ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Karad-Sholapur S/C       220          192 kms    195 kms          3/81-       3/85
2nd Circuit on DC                                                 3/82
Bhabaleswar-Chinchwad  220            165 kms    125.5 kms        3/80-       6/84
2nd Circuit on DC                                                 12/81
Tap Line to Nanded D/C 220            50 kms      47.4 kLs        1/81        3/83
Kandalgao-Lonand S/C   220            114 kms    114.5 kms        6/81-       1/83
8/81
Karad-Kogna S/C          220          65 kms      65.77 kms       3/81-       8/84
3/82
Trorubay-Kalwa S/C       220          32 kms      35 kms          3/81-       1/84
3/82
Koradi-Amaravathi        220          150 kms    130.78 kms    3/82           3/83 &
S/C                                                                           4/84
Wardha-Persad-Parli      220          320 kms    324.06 kms    3/81-          3/81 &
2nd Circuit or. D/C                                               6/81        10/82
Nasik-Bablewar           220          75 kms      78 kms          3/81        12/80
2nd Circuit on D/C
Ambazari-Katol S/C       132          45 kms      44.41 kms       3/81-       5/83
12/81
Purusungi-Dhond S/C    132            64 kms      66 kms          3/79-       11/79
3/80
Ambazari-Madgi-I D/C   132            110 kms    110.78 kms    3/78           3/78
Jalagaon-Amalner S/C   132            64 kms      63 kms          12/78-      1/80
3/81
Nasik Ring Main I D/C  132            57 kms       30 kms         3/81        1/79



Page 6 of 6
Tarapur (Padgha)-        132        63 kna      40 keJ       3/81.      3/83
Bassein D/C                                                  3/82
EST B       ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSMISSION LINES
Kolaghat-Howrah-         220       140 kos      71 kas       3/81       9/84
Haldia D/C
Durgapur-Jeerat-         220       290 kas     260 kis      12/82   Not being
Kasba S/C                                                           undertaken 1/
Chendil-Santaldih S/C   220         98 kIs      98 kms       6/80       2/88
Bishnupur-Hizli D/C      132       112 kms     120 kms       6/81      12/87
NBU S/S.-Birpara S/C    132        102 kms     102 kms       6/81       3/85
1/       Line ceased to be priority item as NTPC power has in the meantime
become available at Jeerat.



-37-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
INLIA
THIRD POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Credit 377-IN
Disbursement Schedule
Estimated              Actual
Sept. 30, 1973
Dec. 31, 1973
March 31, 1974
June 30, 1974                            1.0
Sept. 30, 1974                           4.0
Dec. 31, 1974                           16.0
March 31, 1975                          24.0
June 30, 1975                           32.0
Sept. 30, 1975                          38.5                  1.5
Dec. 31, 1975                           50.5                  3.8
March 31, 1976                          65.5                 11.1
June 30, 1976                           72.5                 20.2
Sept. 30, 1976                          79.5                 28.8
Dec. 31, 1976                           82.5                 35.2
March 31, 1977                          84.5                 50.0
June 30, 1977                           85.0                 62.9
i               Sept. 30, 1977                                               69.5
;               Dec. 31, 1977                                                80.9
March 31, 1978                                              '81.9
June 30, 1978                                                83.6
Sept. 30, 1978                                               84.5
Dec. 31, 1978                                                85.0



-38-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
FOURTH TRANSMISSION POWER PROJECT
Credit 604-IN
Disbursement Schedule
Estimated               Actual
March 31, 1977                           6.0
June 30, 1977                           16.0
Sept. 30, 1977                          26.0
Dec. 31, 1977                           36.0                   0.2
March 31, 1978                          24.0                   0.4
June 30, 1978                           62.0                  18.2
Sept. 30, 1978                          81.0                  26.2
Dec. 31, 1978                          100.0                  34.1
March 31, 1979                         114.0                  42.7
June 30, 1979                          125.0                  50.6
Sept. 30, 1979                         133.0                  57.6
Dec. 31, 1979                          137.0                  61.8
March 31, 1980                         143.0                  71.1
June 30, 1980                          147.0                  78.2
Sept. 30, 1980                         149.0                  84.1
Dec. 31, 1980                          150.0                  88.9
March 31, 1981                                                96.4
June 30, 1981                                                106.8
Sept. 30, 1981                                               109.9
Dec. 31, 1981                                                114.4
March 31, 1982                                               116.0
June 30, 1982                                                120.4
Sept. 30, 1982                                               122.8
Dec. 31, 1982                                                128.8
March 31, 1983                                               139.8
June 30, 1983                                                140.2
Sept. 30, 1983                                               146.1
Dec. 31, 1983                                                149.3
March 31, 1984                                               150.0



-39-                             ANNEX 7
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV (Credits 377 & 604)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RATE OF RETURN 1/ 2/
Name of Electricity Board    74/75    75/76    76/77    77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81
Assam                          6.0%      5.5%      7.9%      4.8%      NECZ     N.A.Z    N.A.Z
Kerala                         4.9       5.8       8.4       9.0      16.3     12.3      13.2
Karnataka                     10.2      15.3      15.7       8.4      15.0     12.0      13.1
Madhya Pradesh                 9.7      10.7      12.2      11.4      12.2     13.7       8.2
Orissa                         0.6       5.4       4.6       3.2       4.7       7.0     10.8
Tamil Nadu                     8.7       8.9      11.4      10.0      10.4     10.8      11.1
Bihar                          0.2       6.0       8.4       8.1      NEC       5.3       1.4
Gujarat                        4.9       4.9      10.5      10.1       9.9      8.7      10.6
Maharashtra                   10.7       9.8      12.3      16.1      14.2      9.4       9.5
West Bengal                    6.9       6.1       9.8       9.4       9.7      9.8      10.5
I/ Excluding duty on electricity.
2/ On Average Capital Base.



-40-                               AN
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT (Credits 377-IN & 604-IN)
CREDITS 377 & 604
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
(on accouLnt of burden of interest arrears)
Rs. Million
Electricity Board                                   1974-75               1979-80
Andhra Pradeuh                                        369                   398
Assam                                                 226                   494
Bihar                                                 656                   536
Gujarat                                               247                   497
Haryana                                               270                   781
Himachal Pradesh                                       60                   244
Varnataka                                              24                    -
Kerala                                                304                    91
Madhya Pradesh
Maharashtra                                            -                    411
Megalaya                                              114                   198
Orissa                                                119                   389
Punjab                                                693                   708
Rajasthan                                              _                     _
Tamil Nadu                                             -                     _
Uttar Pradesh                                         460                   342
West Bengal                                            56                   158



-43-
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
THIRD AND FOURTH TRANSMISSION PROJECTS (CREDITS 377-IN AND 604-rI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INSTALLED CAPACITY, INVESTMENT, CONSUMPTION, LOSSES AND TARIFFS
Installed Capacity
1.      Table 1 tabulates the installed capacity, energy generated and con-
sumed, per capita consumption and provides village electrification and
tubewells data for 1976-83. The all-India installed capacity in 1976 was
nearly 20,000 MW, of which ahout 582 thermal, and 42% hydro. The bulk of the
thermal plan was coal based. By 1980, the beginning of the Sixth Five Year
Plan, the installed capacity was about 28,000 MW. It wa3 planned to provide
additional capacity of 19,000 MW during the Plan but only 14,000 MW will have
been added by March 1985, the end of t. This was because of inadequate
funding, delays in the supply of equipment and key inputs, weak administra-
tion of the program and unforeseen events and conditions such as floods, the
geological problems experienced in hydro construction, and the like. This
meant an installed capacity of 42,000 MW by 1985. The authorities have
recommended the provision of additional capacity of 30,600 MW during the
Seventh Plan period, but it is an ambitious program and has yet to be cleared
by the Government.
2.      Table 2 shows the increase in power generation, 1975-84, by region.
Investment in Power Sector
3.      Table 3 shows the investment in the power sector, 1976-1983.
Transmission Growth
4.      Table 4 provides statistics on the growth of transmission lines and
primary and secondary distribution circuits in 1974-82.



-42-
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Energy Consumption
5.      Table 5 gives the energy consumed by category of consuimer, and Table
6 the percentage share by category for 1975-83. Clearly, the bulk of elec-
tricity sold is utilized for economic purposes. There has been a steady
increase in the consumption in the agricultural sector, the percentage con-
sumption in 1983 standing at 19X but only a modest increase in domestic
consumption, which represents 11.5Z of sales in 1982. The industrial sector
has doubled over the period, though there is a marginal decrease in its share
relative to total, and it now represents almost 60Z of total consumption.
Growth in Tariffs
6.      With the increase in the capital outlay required for power plants
and in the cost of operation and maintenance, and the price increases follow-
ing the 1973 oil crisis, the cost of generation and the cost of energy
delivered to the consumer rose steadily and upwatd revision of tariffs was
inevitable. Tables 7-12 give the average revenue per kwh by category, real-
ized by the SEBs benefitted by the projects, 1974-82. The increase in
average domestic tariff over this period generally totals less than 20Z and
was smalL comparet. with price inflation. There was a four-fold increase in
the tariffs for industry but little change in those for agriculture.  This is
the result of deliberate decisions of the State Governments to subsidize
urban dwellers and farmers. The cost of domestic supply in the rural area is
higher than in urban, but the rates were generally lower. This is what led
to the heavy RE financial losses of SEBs, especially in States where agricul-
ture is predominant.
Power Losses
7.      Table 13 gives the technical and unaccounted for energy Losses as a
percentage of sales for the beneficiaries of the project, and the average for
the country. Losses have been generally in the 15-20% range, compared with a
range of 10-12Z for similar sized systems with adequate transmission and
distribution facilities, and minimal unaccounted-for loses. The inability
of the SEBs to find more resources for expansion of transmission and dis-
tribution is one factor in the present loss situation.



-43-
ANNEX 9
Page 3
Planning Study
8.      Credit 604 included a long-range system planning study, which was
made in 1977-78 by CEA's consultants. 1/ It provided some indicators and
targets for planners of long-term development options. The study had little
impact on current and immediately prospective Bank Group assisted projects
but the results have been used, for example, in appraisal reports to exhibit
an all-India development rrogram, and regional progams, for supply and
demand.
1/ And subsequently redone and kept updated by CEA.



-44-
ANNEX 9
IabLe l
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV (Credits 377-IN & 604-IN)
'ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GROWTH OF POWER SECTOR IN ALL INDIA
Average
Item                       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983   Annual
Increase
Installed capacity         20117   21469   23669   26680   28148   30214   32345   35367  8.4
Utilities only (MW)
Installed capacity
Non-utilities
included (MW)           22249   23755   26175   29298   31307   33316   35781   38755  8.2
Energy Generated
Utiiities (GWh)          79231   88333   91369  102523  104627  110841  122010  130211  7.3
Energy Generated
including Non-
Utilities (GWh)         85926   95614   98928  110130  112820  119260  131125   95917  6.8
Energy Consumed
Utilities (GWh)         60246   66609   69255   77293   78084   82367   90245  103597  6.6
Energy Consumed
including Non-
Utilities (CWh)         66013   73025   75939   84006   85361   19702   98067  103597  6.6
Generation per Capita
Utilities & Non-
Utilities (KWh)          143.1   156.3   157.3   171.7   172.5        176   188.9   195.8  4.5
Consumption per Capits
Utilities 6 Non-
utilities (KWh)          110.0   119.4   120.7   130.9   130.5   132.2   141.3   146.0  4.1
Towns & Villages
Electrified            188928  205966  219986  235894  252924  275412  299631  327007  8.1
Irrigation Pumps
Energized             2792339 3032990 3299901 3598775 3965828 4330453 4649890 4973268  8.5



-45-
ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV (Credits 377-IN & 604-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INSTALLED CAPACITY
MW
Region                        1975                               1984
Hydro    Thermal    Total         Hydro    Thermal    Total
Northern            2408        2433       4841         4771       6397      11168
Western              1273       3262       4535          1811     10164       11975
Eastern              699        3291       3990          980       5015       6085
Southern            3080        1656       4736         5983       3445       9428
Northeastern           68         144       212           308        396        704
All-India           7528       10786      18314         13853     25507      39360



-46-
ANNEX 9
Table 3
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV (Credits 377-IN & 604)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INVESTUENT IN POWER SECTOR
Rs Million
Average
75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83               x Invest-
ment
Total Investment         11517  15224  17544  21821  24727  26641  32192  37940
Generation                6998   9391  10311  12399  14289  15130  19729  24967                61.8
Transmission &
Distribution           3070   4250   5065   5382   7199   7684   8801   8886                26.3
Rural Electrification   1255   1376   1909   3748   2781   3428   3110   3427                  10.3
Miscellaneous              194    207    259    292    458    399    552    660                 1.6



-47-
ANNEX 9
Table 4
INDIA
THIRD AND FOURTH TRANSMISSION PROJECTS (Credits 377-IN & 604-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CROWTH OF TRANSMISSION LINES (ALL INDIA)
As at the end of 31st March
Descripticr.             1974      1975    1976       1977      1978      1979    1981        1982
KILOMETERS
400 kV Lines                         -        -         -          375        718    2,340    2,529
230/220 kV Lines        13,9.2   18,084   20,651   21,506   25,822   27,196   31,834   34,510
132/110 kV Lines        45,041   46,755   48,136   51,597   52,323   54,186   54,738   62,844
78/66 kV Lines          24,252   24,731   24,976   26,209   26,694   26,594   26,752   28,311
All Lines, 66kV
and up                83,225   89,570   93,763   99,312  105,214  108,694  115,664  128,194
33/22 kV Lines         115,890  127,069  130,369  136,792  143,597  151,579  168,882  169,629
15/11 kV Lines         491,462  510,038  532,209  572,321  621,932  663,573  784,513  836,116
Total of Lines
33/11 kV (6+7)      607,352  637,107  662,568  709,113  765,529  815,152  953,395 1005,745
Distribution Lines   845,460  895,171  962,611 1041,848 1128,337 1222,073 1453,402 1554,715
Total transmission
and distribution
lines              1536,037 1621,848 1718,942 1850,273 1999,080 2145,919 2522,461 2688,654



-48-
ANNEX 9
Table 5
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV (Credits 377-IN & 604-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICAL ENERCY IN INDIA
HWH
Sector                1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83
Agriculture and        7762    8721    9621   10107   12028   13452   14489   15201   17792
Irrigation
Railway Traction       1531    1855    2168    2297    2186    2302    2266    2505    2674
a. Industrial          4870    5234    6785    6175    6933    7371    7415    9405    9566
Power -
Low Voltage
b. Industrial         27821   32334   34821   36460   40794   38584   40654   43659   43956
Power -
High Voltage
c. Non-Utilities       5887    5773    6416    6684    6713    1278    7336    7821    7680
Commercial and Govt. 3082    3507    4142    4428    4331    4647    4682            5194    6022
Public Lighting         580      572      594      619      649      712     748      813      866
Domestic               5173    5821    6337    6821    7576    8402    9246   10440   11967
Public Water Works   1227    1327    1444    1504    1428    1407    1534    1674    1715
Miscellaneous           586      868      698      844    1362    1197    1332        1355    1358
TOTAL                 58519   66012   73025   75939   84000   79352   89702   98067  103586



-49-
ANNEX 9
Table 6
INDIA
CREDITS 377 6 604
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV
CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY IN INDIA
SHARES BY PERCENTAGES
Sector                1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83
Agriculture &           14.7    14.4    14.4    14.6    15.6    16.9    16.1    15.5    17.1
Irrigation
Railway Traction        2.9      3.0      3.2      3.3     2.8      2.9      2.5      2.5     2.5
Industry (including   62.4    62.6    62.6    61.9    61.9    59.8    62.0    62.3    59.4
non-utilities)
Commercial and          5.9      5.8      6.2      6.3     5.6      5.8      5.2      5.3     5.8
Government
Public Lighting                                    0.8     0.8      0.9      0.8     0.8      0.8
Domestic                9.5      9.6      9.5      9.8     9.8    10.5    10.3    10.6    11.5
Public Water Works,    4.6       4.6      4.1      3.3     3.6      3.2      3.1      3.0     2.9
Drainage, etc.
TOTAL                    100



-50-
ANNEX 9
Table 7
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV (Credits 377-IN & 604-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AVERAGE RATE REALISED PER KWH
Paise
DOMESTIC
1973-74      1975-76      1977-78      1979-80      1981-82
Beneficiary
Assam SEB                41.6         44.4         44.9         45.6         49.6
Kerala SEB               34.1         23.3         24.2         22.8         24.4
Karnataka SEB            22.7         28.1         31.7         35.8         29.7
Madhya Pradesh SEB       27.9         29.3         30.1         36.4         38.4
Orissa SEB                NA          30.8         29.7         33.8         40.1
Tamil Nadu SEB           38.6         40.7         43.1         39.9         46.0
Bihar SEB                46.1         42.2         38.5         51.6         52.6
Cujarat SEB              33.1         35.0         37.5         42.2         52.9
Maharashtra SEB          29.0         27.6         33.8         30.8         35.6
West Bengal SEB          41.6         41.4         45.2         48.1         55.5



-51-
ANNEX 9
Table 8
INDIA
CREDITS 377-IN & 604-IN
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV
AVERAGE RATE REALISED PER KWH
Paise
AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
1973-74      1975-76      1977-78      1979-80      1981-82
Beneficiary
Assam SEB               19.5         14.8         29.4         59.3         55.1
Kerala SEB              12.1         10.1         18.4         13.7         17.7
Karnataka SEB           15.3         24.6         23.7         26.4         16.7
Madhya Pradesh SEB    27.3           33.7         30.2         31.8         33.4
Orissa SEB               NA          25.3         15.0          8.9          17.1
Tamil Nadu SEB          13.0         17.2         20.1         16.4         13.0
Bihar SEB               21.5         11.3         18.9         19.9         21.3
Gujarat SEB             18.8         21.7         25.8         27.9         38.1
Maharashtra SEB         18.8         24.1         24.2         16.9         15.6
West Bengal SEB         17.4         24.7         30.7         32.7         51.7



-52-
ANNEX 9
Table 9
INDIA
CREDITS 377-IN & 604-IN
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV
AVERAGE RATE REALISED PER KWH
Paise
INDUSTRY
1973-74      1975-76      1977-78      1979-80      1981-82
Beneficiary
Assam SEB               10.0         13.3         26.0         30.1         56.3
Kerala SEB               5.9          7.0          9.4         10.7         12.3
Karnataka SEB            6.1          9.3         14.0         18.8         31.0
Madhya Pradesh SEB    12.1           16.7         21.5         31.2         46.3
Orissa SEB               NA          10.4         10.9         18.2         26.4
Tamil Nadu SEB          10.8         16.8         23.9         30.9         36.7
Bihar SEB               17.1         26.3         30.6         42.5         60.0
Cujarat SEB             13.9         20.7         24.7         33.4         46.4
Maharashtra SEB         14.4         20.1         25.3         26.2         40.6
West Bengal SEB         13.8         26.8         30.1         36.6         48.5



-53-
ANNEX 9
Table 10
INDIA
CREDITS 377-IN & 604-IN
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV
AVERAGE RATE REALISED PER KWH
Paise
TRACTION
1973-74      1975-76      1977-78      1979-80       1981-82
Beneficiary
Madhya Pradesh SEB       17.6         20.2         23.7          45.0         50.2
Orissa SEB                NA          13.5          14.5         22.4         41.9
Tamil Nadu SEB           12.9         23.2         18.0          56.0         43.4
Bihar SEB                15.7         23.8         25.4          36.2         59.2
Gujarat SEB               --          13.6         13.8          26.5         39.1
Maharashtra              12.8         14.9         19.4          20.9         32.0
West Eengal SEB          13.7         23.7         25.2          35.7         63.8



-54-
ANNEX 9
Table 11
INDIA
.REDITS 377-IN & 604-IN
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV
AVERAGE RATE REALISED PER KWH
Paise
COMMERCIAL
1973-74      1975-76      1977-78      1979-80      1981-82
Beneficiary
Assam SEB                28.8         47.6         55.8         67.9         60.0
Kerala SEB               39.4         39.5         40.2         41.0         42.4
Karnataka SEB            50.0         44.5         67.2         80.1         86.1
Mtdhya Pradesh SEB       26.0         36.7         40.4         48.9         62.5
Orissa SEB                NA          31.2         27.4         34.4         50.9
Tamil Nadu SEB           30.9         46.6         41.2         60.6         59.7
Bihar SEB                43.3         53.5         42.9         67.0         77.9
Gujarat SEB              28.4         24.6         24.5         44.9         49.4
Maharashtra SEB          35.7         39.0         37.9         39.5         44.4
West Bengal SEB          35.2         31.1         41.6         48.4         70.6



-55-
ANNEX 9
Table 12
INDIA
CREDITS 377-IN . 604-IN
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECTS III & IV
AVERAGE RATE REALISED PER KWH
Paise
PUBLIC WATER WORKS
1973-74     1975-76      1977-78      1979-80      1981-82
Beneficiary
Assam SEB               11.4         12.7         25.7         17.6         33.4
Kerala SEB              10.4         11.6         16.7         16.2         18.0
Karnataka SEB            7.0          6.6         13.1          NA          36.8
Madhya Pradesh SEB      16.1         18.7         22.7         26.3         40.6
* Orissa SEB             NA          16.4         18.6         20.1         24.8
Tamil Nadu SEB           NA           NA           NA           NA          35.0
Bihar SEB               20.5         17.5         33.0         58.4         89.9
Gu jarat SEB            22.8         26.7         30.4         38.4         53.1
Maharashtra SEB         13.7         16.6         25.4         26.5         37.1
West Bengal SEB         11.1         20.1         24.2         45.0         64.1



-56-
Anngx 10
INDIA
THIRD AND FOURT  TRASMISSION PROJECTS
CUEDITS 337-IN AND 604-IN
PBQJKCT COMPLETION REPORT
BOREOWER'S COMMENTS TO THE REPORT
GOI's comments on the Draft Project Completion Report for the
Third and Fourth Transmission Projects (Credits 377-IN and 604-IN) are
reproduced below:
(i)  Time overruns for Credit 377-IN were due to difficultiet in
procurement of material owing to problems created by steep rise in
the price of aluminum and restrictive provision for price
escalation in supply contract. Delay in Credit 604-IN was due to
the savings that arose in the credit which were later earmarked in
February 1982 for use of additional prcgrams in Bihar and the
closing date accordingly was extenade by the Bank to September
1983.
(ii) We do not agree with the sweeping generalization that the CEA was
not able to fulfill its role as an intermediary between the Bank
and the SEBs in monitoring the project performance and technical
supervision. While there may have been some delays initially
owing to lack of understanding of Bank procedures, the general
perception of the SEBs is that they tave benefitted considerably
through interaction with the CEA both in terms of technical input
and supervisory assistance. We believe that this relationship
needs to be strengthened.  Accordingly efforts are on to
strengthen the concerned wing in the CEA.
(iii)  Regarding the final performance of SEBs, it may be noted that most
of the SEBs improved their position over the project life and
achieved the rate of return of 9.5 percent except AssamfOrissa,and
Bihar.  While Orissa achieved a rate of return of 10.9 percent in
1985/81 Assam attained rate of return of 14.4 percent.



