DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use                 FILE  COPY
Report No. 35a-IN
APPRAISAL OF
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT III
INDIA
February 26, 1973
Public Utilities Division
Asia Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted I
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



ASIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT III
Currency Units            =    Indian Rupees and Paise
US$1.00                   =    Indian Rupees (Rs) 8.00*
1 Rupee                        US$0.125
1 Million Rupees          =    US$125,000
1 Rupee                        100 Paise
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES EQUIVALENTS
One Kilovolt (kV)         =    1,000 volts
One megawatt (MW)         =    1,000 kilowatts
One megavolt ampere (MVA)=    1,000 kilovoltamperes
One kilometer (km)        =    0.62 miles
One gigawatt hour (Gwh)  =    One million Kwhs
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCB                       =    Beas Construction Board
CEA                            Central Electricity Authority
;VPC                           Central Water and Power Commission
DESU                      -    Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
GOI                       =    Government of India
LIC                       =    Life Insurance Corporation of India
RE                        =    Rural Electrification
REB                       =    Regional Electricity Board
REC                            Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB                            State Electricity Board
The Fiscal Year Ends      =    March 31
The central rate reported to IMI is Rs 7.279 per US$1 and no new rate
has been reported since the recent dollar devaluation. However, the
actual rate fluctuates as the Rupee continues to be tied to the British
pound which has been floating vis-a-vis the US$ since June 23, 1972.



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT III
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCZLUSIONS             ............................... i ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................
II.   THE POWER SECTOR ....... ...............                             2
Organizational Structure ..............................    3
Power Sector Characteristics & Facilities ....           .........    4
Power Development Program .............................    5
Planning of Investment Programs .......................    6
III.    THE BENEFICIARIES .....................................    8
IV.   THE PROJECT ...........................................    9
Estimated Cost of Equipment and Materials ....           .........    9
Engineering and Construction ..........................   11
Procurement ...........................................   12
Disbursements ..........................................   12
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .................................   13
VI.   FINANCIAL SITUATION .........................                       16
General Background .......            ..................    16
Financial Self-Sufficiency ..........         ..................   16
Subsidy for Losses for RE Operations .....           .............   18
Capitalization of Interest .........         ...................   18
Interest Arrears on Government Loans .....         ..............   19
Future Financial Position ..........        ...................   19
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................   21
This report is based on information obtained by Messrs. J. Beach,
S.S. Scales, B. Montfort and P. Mistry during a mission to India in
November/December 1971 and by Messrs. J. Beach, S.S. Scales, R. Salazar
and R. Ewasiuk in a subsequent mission in June/July 1972.



-2-
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEXES
1   -    Target and Attained Rates of Return.
2   -    Comparison between Income Statements and Sources of Funds
prepared in accordance with Indian law and those prepared
following modern management practice.
3   -    FY 71 Financial Operations Showing Quantification of Government
Subsidy to Cover Losses from Rural Electrification Operations.
4-11 -    For the State Electricity Boards of Assam, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Mysore, Orissa & Tamil Nadu, The Delhi Electricity Supply Under-
taking and Tata Power Company.
(i) Income Statement
(ii) Sources and Application of Funds
12   -    Estimated Disbursement Schedule.
13   -    Organization of the India Power Sector.
,APS
IBRD 2833 INDIA - Regional Power Boards
IBRD 3829   -   - Northern Regional Grid
IBRD 3830   -   - Western Regional Grid
IBRD 3831   -   - Southern Regional Grid
IBRD 3832   -   - Eastern Regional Grid
IBRD 3833   -   - North-eastern Regional Grid



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT III
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of India (GOI) has requested financial assistance
from the Association for the purchase of equipment and materials for the
transmission systems scheduled to be constructed during the period 1972/73 -
1976/77. A Credit of US$85 million is proposed. The facilities would be
constructed by six State Electricity Boards (SEBs), the Delhi Electric
Supply Undertaking (DESU), the Beas Construction Board (BCB), the Tata Power
Company (TATA), and the acquisition of communication equipment by the GOI
on behalf of the Northern and Southern Regional Electricity Boards. The
Borrower would be the Government of India. The beneficiaries and their shares
of the proposed Credit are:
US$ Millions
Assam SEB                                     2.47
Kerala SEB                                    8.39
Madhya Pradesh SEB                            8.93
iMysore SEB                                   12.21
Orissa SEB                                    12.69
Tamil Nadu SEB                                8.49
DESU                                          4.56
BCB                                           15.89
Tata Power                                     5.89
GOI for
(a) Southern Regional Electricity
Board                               0.48
(b) Northern Regional Electricity
Board                               5.00
85.00
ii.       The proposed Credit would be the second in a series of credits
for the power sector to expand the power transmission system and to help
to achieve, over the long term, institutional improvements, particularly
in the field of financial management. The proposed Credit will also help
stimulate the process of sectoral reform (paragraphs v and x).
iii.      The Bank has made eight loans to India for power projects, aggre-
gating US$198.0 million, and the Association five credits totalling US$154
million.
iv.       The power sector of the Indian economy is large and is growing
fast. The transmission plans prepared by SEBs and the central agencies of
the GOI are designed to improve use of existing and under construction
generating facilities. The proposed Credit would represent about 14% of
the total investment by the beneficiary States in transmission during the
five-year period.



- ii -
v.        The public power sector is regulated by the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948 (Act). The operative agency at the Center is presently the
Power Wing of the Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC) and not the
statutorily independent Central Electricity Authority (CEA) as intended by
the Act. The role of the CWPC in the planning and coordination of the
power sector is passive as it has no authority to carry out investigations
or to coordinate State power development on a national scale.  The develop-
ment of the power sector has now reached the stage where integrated
operation and planning for economic and efficient growth on a regional basis
is essential. The establishment of a powerful and independent organization
at the Center capable of adopting a more dynamic role in planning the
development of the power sector, coordinating and promoting sound management
and accounting procedures is necessary. The GOI understands the need to
support, along with the State Governments and the SEBs, the strengthening of
the CEA to carry out the above role and agreed during negotiations to re-
activate the CEA and transfer to it the Power Wing of the C1PCD
vi.       The GO!, through i'ts planning agencies, has prepared a "decade"
plan covering a program of generation and major transmission construction
for the period 1972-1981. It is the GOI's intention that this plan should
b:e updated annually and eventually be extended over a fifteen-year period
in line with the present planning horizon of the Fuel Policy Committee in
respect of fuel resources. Although the preparation of the plan indicated
acceptance by the GOI of the necessity to plan for the long term, it fell
far short of being a blue-print for long-term development planning.  This
was discussed during negotiations and the GOI agreed to initiate forthwith
the preparation of a more comprehensive power development planning effort
to span a 15-year horizon, and to update it annually.
vii.      Following an analysis of the planning process to establish the
construction program for the period covered by the project a list of
subDrojects was prepared by the mission in consultation with the GOI in
order to establish broadly the amount of the proposed credit to be allocated
t:o each beneficiary.  The Association would review bid documentation and
awards for each of the beneficiaries? subprojects and disbursements would
be made up to the a'llocated amount agreed.
viii.     As in the case of Credit 242-IN, procurement would be on the basis
of international competitive bidding with preferred Indian manufacturers
given a preference of 15% in evaluating bids. Disbursements would be made
against the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and the ex-factory cost, free
of taxes, of locally manufactured equipment.
ix.       Information provided by the SEBs under the provisions of Credit
242-IN has drawn attention to considerable liabilities which SEBs have
accumulated in respect of arrears of interest on State Government loans
resulting from GOI and State policies in respect of tariffs and financial
management concepts. In addition, financial data on the operations of
Rural Electrification (RE) schemes indicates that large losses are being
borne by SEBs from these operations, again largely because of GOI and State
policies.



- iii--
x.        To help resolve these pressing financial problems in the sector,
GOI agreed during negotiations appropriate revisions to the Electricity
Supply Act particularly in respect of tariff guidelines and financial
planning objectives; to establish obligations on the part of State
Governments to relieve the beneficiary SEBs of the accumulated liabilities
for arrears of interest on State Government loans; to establish obligations
on the part of State Governments to subsidize the beneficiary SEBs for
losses from rural electrification operations; and to allow all SEBs to
capitalize interest during construction, and provide appropriate guidelines
for doing so.
Xi.       The Project would constitute a suitable basis for a Credit of
US$85 million equivalent.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I



INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT III
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India has requested assistance from the Associa-
tion in purchasing equipment and materials for the development of power
transmission for the period 1972/73 - 1976/77. A Credit of US$85 million is
proposed. The Project would consist of a number of transmission subprojects
to be undertaken by six SEBs, 1/ the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU),
the Beas Construction Board (BCB), the Tata Power Company (TATA), 2/ and the
acquisition of communication equipment by the GOI for the Northern and
Southern Regional Boards. The proposed Credit will finance equipment and
materials which represent about 14% of the total investment in transmission
at voltages of 110 kV and above which the beneficiaries are planning to make
during the next five years.
1.02      The Bank has made eight loans to India for power projects, amounting
to US$198.0 million, and IDA five credits totalling US$154 million. Loan
416-IN and Credit 242-IN were for transmission, Credit 89-IN for construction
equipment for the Beas hydroelectric project, and the others for generating
plants. All of the loans and the 3 earlier credits have been disbursed.
About 17% of Credit 89-IN of June 1966 and 100% of Credit 242-IN of May 1971
remain undisbursed. Nevertheless, substantial contract amounts have been
awarded against the latter. Disbursements have been slow and procurement
and loan/credit administration has been a problem in the past but both are
improving (paragraphs 4.11 - 4.13).
1.03      Loan 416-IN (Power Transmission Project I) made in 1965 involved
all 15 SEBs, DESU and two private power companies, TATA in Bombay and the
Ahmadabad Electric Supply Company in Gujarat. It had two important objectives.
The first was to expand high-voltage transmission facilities to complete the
interconnection of networks within each of the State systems. The second
was to improve the earnings of SEBs, bring about uniformity of accounting,
and introduce greater financial consciousness among the management group.
All 15 SEBs, their respective State Governments and DESU gave undertakings
to GOI that they would achieve a specified rate of return performance by a
certain time (Annex 1).
1.04      The financial targets, set by the GOI but later found unrealistic,
were revised in 1969, reducing the capital base by excluding works in
progress and extending the time allowed for the SEBs to achieve the specified
rates of return. However, the performance of the SEBs continues to be
1/   The State Electricity Boards of Assam, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Mysore
Orissa, and Tamil Nadu.
2/   See paragraphs 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 for a description of BCB, DESU and
TATA, respectively.



- 2 -
generally disappointing chiefly because of State Government policy for rural
electrification, the operating losses for which are borne by the SEBs,
depressing their rates of return.  Moreover, because of a much better
understanding by Association staff now, as compared to the mid-1960s, of
the peculiarities of the SEB accounting systems and financial management
concepts, it has become apparent that even the attainment of the original
rate of return target of 9-1/2% (excluding government duty) would not make
all of the SEBs financially viable to the extent of meeting full debt service
aad a reasonable proportion of investment capital from current earnings.
i.05      Credit 242-IN (Power Transmission II Project) was made in May
1971. 1/ The main objectives of the Credit, which was considered as the
first in a series of credits for power transmission, were the expansion and
improvement of the power transmission system and the preparation for
progressive institutional improvements over the long-term, particularly in
the field of financial management. The proposed credit would pursue these
objectives further and complete the cycle started with Loan 416-IN and
continued with Credit 242-IN. The former applied to all 15 SEBs and the
latter to 9. The remaining 6 SEBs would now be covered in accordance with
the wishes of the GOIT
1.O6      This report is based on information obtained by Messrs. J. Beach,
SOS. Scales, B. Montfort and P. Mistry during a mission to India in
November/December 1971 and by Messrs. J. Beach, S.S. Scales,. R. Salazar and
Z. Ewasiuk in a subsequent mission ir, June/July 1972.
II. THE POWER SECTOR
2. it     Planning for the development of the sector is poorly coordinated
arL-7~ although attempts have been made to improve it through the creation
oR PReional Electricity Boards (REBs), there is still no effective control at
tL.J'  ational level.  Power shortages are common despite overinvestment in
generation facilities because commensurate investments were not made at the
proper times in transmission and distribution. The proposed project is
-i1tended to improve this imbalance and also, by requiring the reactivation
of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), to establish the basis for
meaningful sector control.
11  The beneficiaries of Credit 242-IN were the SEBs of Andra Pradesh,
Sihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Naharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh,
an4 West Bengal and the Bhakra Management Board.



-3-
Organizational Structure
2.02      There are both privately owned and public utilities participating
in the sector. 1/ Since Independence in 1947, public ownership has been
emphasized, and at present accounts for over 85% of the energy sold. Pri-
vately owned systems are found mostly in urban areas and their relative
importance in the sector is expected to diminish over time. The organiza-
tional structure and the interaction between the various agencies in the
sector are described more fully in Annex 13.
2.03      The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (Act) provides for the public
sector that:
(i)  the SEBs in each State would be primarily responsible for
"promoting the coordinated development of the generation,
supply and distribution of electricity within the State
in the most efficient and economical manner"; and
(ii)  the CEA would, inter alia, "develop a sound, adequate and
uniform national power policy and ... coordinate the
activities of the planning agencies in relation to the
control and utilization of national power resources."
2.04      To achieve integrated operations on a regional basis, five REBs
were created between 1964-66. The REBs are voluntary associations between
member States in each region charged with the functions of planning integrated
system expansion and coordinating operations within the region. However,
they function as advisory bodies, on the assumption that SEBs will voluntarily
accept their advice to the mutual benefit of all member States. But, in fact,
SEBs have been generally reluctant to accept the advice of REBs, particularly
on such issues as tariffs for inter-State exchanges of power. Lacking re-
quisite sanctions to enforce, or machinery to monitor, the implementation of
their decisions, REBs can do little to achieve genuine regional cooperation,
but it is hoped that, by amendments to the Act contemplated by the GOI, the
REBs will be given statutory recognition as agents of the CEA.
2.05      Despite the provision of the Act, the CEA remains inoperative.  The
operative agency at the Center is the Power Wing of the Central Water and
Power Commission (CWPC). The CWPC, an advisory appendage to the Ministry of
Irrigation and Power (MIP), is without statutory authority.  Its role in
the planning and coordination of power sector development is limited and
relatively passive as it has no authority to carry out investigations or to
coordinate State power development in the interest of optimal development on
a national scale. Furthermore, CWPC's subordinate role to an administrative
1/   The power sector is described in more detail in the appraisal report
PU-47a (Credit 242-IN).



-4-
Ministry, ultimately under political influence, ill-equips it to perform the
function of the CEA in the manner envisaged in the Act or with the effec-
tiveness expected.
2.06      The GOI has declared its intention to participate, through the
CEA, in the construction, operation and ownership of major generating plants
and transmission lines, where the required financial resources are beyond
the capacity of individual SEBs. It is envisaged that future generating
stations and transmission, for economic reasons, will be of large capacities
and will require substantial financial resources that GOI can provide
directly to the CEA. This is an acceptable long-term objective in the
GOI's endeavor to strengthen the CEA but for the Association to press for
it at this time would be premature since major amendments to the Act would
be required and this may require a lengthy procedure. The Planning Commis-
sion and the CWPC support the broader role for the CEA described above and
advocate in the short-term the immediate reactivation of the CEA. For this
purpose, the Power Wing of the CWPC would be transferred to the CEA. This
can be achieved by Presidential Decree. During negotiations, the GOI agreed
to the reactivation of the CEA as described above and recorded its understanding
that this would be done as a precondition for Bank/Association consideration
of the next power sector investment.
Power Sector Characteristics & Facilities
2.07      The following table indicates the present size and recent growth
of the combined public and private power sector in India:
Average Annual
1971     Increased 1965-71
Installed Capacity (MW)            16,500            9.9
Energy Generated (millions kWh)  61,355             10.7
Generation per Capita (kWh)           112            8.4
Towns & Villages Electrified    107,188             18.4
2.08      The composition of publicly-owned generating capacity (which
accounts for over 90% of total capacity) is 57% thermal and 43% hydro; of
the total thermal capacity, 93% is conventional steam plant, 4% diesel and
3% nuclear.
2.09      The consumption pattern of electrical energy is indicated below:



-5-
Average Consumption Pattern
Category                                  1965-1971
Domestic and Commercial                           14.0
Agricultural Pumping                               9.0
Railway Traction                                   3.5
Industry                                          70.0
Other                                              3.5
Total                       100.0
This pattern is expected to continue but with the agricultural component
showing some increase as the result of rural electrification programs.
Power Development Program
2.10      Planning of the power sector at a national level is presently
undertaken by the CWPC. The Fourth Five-Year Plan covers the period 1969/70-
73/74.  In 1971 a "decade" plan was formulated for the period 1972/73-80/81.
The project under consideration forms part of the completion of the projects
in the Fourth Five-Year Plan and the construction of others forming part of
the decade plan.
2.11      According to the decade plan the GOI intends to expand the rated
generating capacity of 16,500 MW to 35,000 MW by the end of 1976/77 and to
52,000 MW by the end of 1980/81, as given below:
India - Decade Power Development Plan
1970/71 - 1980/81
Demand Peak                     Installed Capacity
MW         Annual Growth           MW            Annual Growth
1970/71  1980/81         %         1970/71   1980/81           %
Northern       2,810   10,450          14         3,700    14,400           14.5
Western        2,670    8,300          12         3,800    12,000           12.0
Southern       2,900    9,000         12          4,100    13,000           12.0
Eastern        1,880    7,000          14         3,300    10,000           11.5
North Eastern    86        550         20.4         200      1,000          17.0
Subtotal   10,346   35,300          13.1       15,100    50,400           12.9
Nonutilities    882    1,400            5.7       1,400      1,600           -
___        /1
TOTAL       11,228   36,700         12.5       16,500/1  52,000-          12.2
/1   These are nameplate ratings and as such do not represent firm capability.
For 1973/74, firm capacity is expected to be about 70% of the nameplate
rating.



-6-
2.12      It is now apparent that the Fourth Plan target of 23,000 MW of
installed capacity by 1973/74 will not be accomplished. The CWPC has expressed
confidence that a capacity target of not less than 20,000 MW can be met,
but this represents a considerable shortfall and even after allowing for
benefits which will accrue due to State and regional interconnection, power
shortages are almost certain in some areas.  The mission has reservations
about even the 20,000 MW being achieved in 1973/74 though this represents
yearly increases of only 7.1% over 1970/71 figures and, as for the 1980/81
target, it is unlikely that anything approaching this is possible unless
the manufacturing capacity for generating plant is rapidly increased or
restrictions on the direct import of generating plant are removed.
2.13      Because of poor coordination the sector's growth has been charac-
terized by a considerable imbalance between transmission/distribution
fcicilities and generating plant. Of the total investment outlay between
1966/67 and 1969/70, 19% was invested in rural electrification, 24% in
transmission/distribution and 55% in generation.  The investment in
transmission/distribution has been about half of what it probably should
have been.  Consequently, generating facilities have been underutilized
with power shortages in some regions and surpluses in others due to lack of
transmission facilities. Additionally, unsatisfactory voltage conditions
have resulted in some parts of the country together with high transmission
losses.
alianning of Investment Programs
.1 _
2.14      Until recent years power sector planning was based on programs
developed by the individual SEBs representing the requirements and policies
of their respective States. However, the present size of the sector and
its increasing requirements make possib3le the utilization of larger hydro-
electric schemes and the installation of large conventional thermal units
located at coal mine sites or at main load centers, or the installation of
nuclear generating stations, the latter, in most cases, only being economi-
cally justified for capacities greater than required by individual States.
This points to the necessity for inter-State and inter-regional planning
co enable electric power to be generated at economically suitable sites in
greater blocks which, in many cases, exceed the power requirements of the
lozal State or region.
22l5      The methodology followed by the CEPC in its planning activities
is :enerally as follows:
(i)  Local forecasts made by the individual SEB are analyzed
and complemented with information from GOI agencies such
as the Planning Commission, Ministries of Finance,
Industry and Supply, etc. through which the effects of
the industrial development policies on power demand can be
evaluated. These estimates undergo revision annually. In
general load forecasts have been consistently overestimated,



7-
due mainly to delays of new industries going into operation
on schedule or achieving production capacities originally
contemplated. In some instances, the SEBs have failed to
provide the necessary supply facilities in time. Equipment
and transmission line materials to be provided under the
proposed Credit will help to overcome the latter problem;
(ii) CWPC updates the national survey of hydroelectric potential
capacity. Each economically feasible development is iden-
tified for several degrees of utilization (plant factors),
with cost estimates and operational constraints caused by
irrigation being determined. The economically feasible
hydroelectric potential at about the system load factor
of 60% is estimated at 41,000 MW but this could be substan-
tially increased with the planned interconnected system
and the incorporation of large coal fired and nuclear base
load generating plants by designing future hydro plants
for peak operation at lower load factors. The identifica-
tion of the most attractive thermal stations (conventional
fuel and nuclear) is also made by CWPC in coordination with
the Planning Commission, the Ministry of Mines and Fuels
and the Atomic Energy Commission; and
(iii) The information concerning magnitude and location of power
demand and the identified generating resources allows the
CWPC to formulate the recommended power mix based on
economic and other considerations. Planning of the
transmission system follows from the selected generating
system mix but the methods used in determining the power
mix and selection of transmission system alternatives
suggests that considerable improvement would be desirable.
2.16      Although efforts are made at present by REBs to coordinate the
system's operation, several problems still remain, mainly in connection with
tariffs for inter-State power transfer. Central planning and coordination
of power generation and bulk transmission carried out by a central body with
full authority would help to overcome the present weaknesses. Reactivation
of the CEA will provide the legal vehicle for doing this.
2.17      It is the intention of the planning agencies of GOI to strengthen
the coordination of studies of the power sector with those of other economic
sectors and, in particular, with those by other energy agencies such as the
Fuel Policy Committee and the Atomic Energy Commission. During negotiations
the GOI undertook to strengthen the coordination of its planning with that
of its other economic sectors and with the work of other of its agencies
operating in the field of energy planning, to extend the scope of such
planning to cover a 15-year period and to initiate forthwith the preparation
of a comprehensive power development plan to be updated annually.



-8-
III. THE BENEFICIARIES
3.01      The beneficiaries of the proposed credit would be the six SEBs of
Assam, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Mysore, Orissa and Tamil Nadu together with
the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking, the Beas Construction Board, the Tata
Power Company and the Government of India for the Northern and Southern
Regional Electricity Boards. The original State of Assam has recently been
split into the separate states of Assam, Meghalaya and Mizoram (see Map 3833).
A decision has not yet been made as to whether or not the Assam SEB will
continue to operate as one Board to serve the three new States, or whether
separate SEBs would be created to operate in each State, and the assets and
liabilities of the existing SEB divided between them.
3.02      SEBs are corporate bodies.  They are able to carry on their day-to-
day operations with relative independence, but possess little financial
autonomy because tariffs, annual operating and capital budgets, planning of
capital development and the raising of loans, are controlled by the State
Governments.
3.03      Under the provisions of the Act, an SEB consists of three to seven
members appointed by the State Government. One member must have experience
in commercial matters and administration, a second in electrical engineering,
and a third in accounting and financial matters, preferably in a public
utility undertaking. One of these three members is appointed chairman. The
remaining members usually serve part-time and are either government officers
or represent, for example, trade unions, commerce or industry. Tenure of
office varies among States; chairmen have been appointed for one to five years
but with no certainty of continuing 4n office for the whole term. In some
cases senior staff have been seconded-by the State Government to the SEBs,
but this is not good practice because seconded staff have loyalties outside
the SEBs on which they serve and the career prospects of the SEBs own staff
are affected adversely. Despite these shortcomings, the SEBs have competent
technical staff who are fully capable of designing and constructing the
transmission lines included in the project.
3.04      The Beas Construction Board, a construction organization created
by Central Government Resolution for the construction of the Beas hydro-
electric Project is also responsible for the design, procurement, installation,
erection and commissioning of the transmission lines (220 kV and above) being
constructed to convey Beas Power to the states of Haryana, Punjab and
Rajasthan. Any allocation of the credit to the Beas Construction Board for
equipment and materials will eventually be apportioned between these three
SEBs.
3.05      DESU is responsible for the generation, transmission, and
distribution of electric power within the Delhi area and for the supply
of bulk power to the New Delhi Municipal Council for distribution throughout
New Delhi.



-9-
3.06      The Tata Power Company (TATA), a private company, started the
development of the power industry in the Bombay area in 1915. It has a
long record of successful operation and is in a sound financial condition.
It supplies bulk power to the City of Bombay and a number of large industries
through its own transmission lines and substations. It generates power at
its own thermal and hydro facilities and also purchases power from the
MIaharashtra State Electricity Board.
3.07      The implications of the Act and its effects on the SEBs is
discussed in Chapter VI.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The Project would consist of about 4jOOO circuit km of transmission
lines operating at voltages between 110 kV and 400 kV, and about 60 sub-
stations with an aggregate capacity of about 4,600 MVA. The individual
transmission lines and substations which together form the Project are
indicated on the maps attached. Map IBRD 2833 shows the location of the
five regional grids of which the beneficiaries form part. Maps IBRD 3829
to 3833 show the regional grid networks as now existing and proposed and
the extensions which would be financed by the Credit.
4.02      The individual transmission lines and substations which together
form the Project would be constructed by the beneficiaries as part of their
transmission expansion programs (above 110 kV) during the period 1972/73
through 1976/77. Also included in the Project would be the procurement and
installation of communication and supervisory equipment required by the
Northern and Southern Region Load Despatch Stations. The establishment of
such stations is necessary for the control of generation and inter-state
load flows to permit integrated operation within the Regions.
Estimated Costs of Equipment and Materials
4.03      The estimated costs of equipment and materials required for the
Project are shown in the following table:



- 10 -
Estimated Costs
Rs          US$ Equivalent
million           million
1. Conductors and Groundwire                  165.84              20.73
2. Towers                                      68.40               8.55
3. Insulators                                  23.52               2.94
4. Transformers                               104.64              13.08
5. Switchgear                                  67.92               8.49
6. Capacitors                                  26.80               3.35
7. PLCC/Load Despatch                          77.36               9.67
8.  Control and Relay Panels                   10.80               1.35
9. Power Cables                                19.76               2.47
10. Miscellaneous Equipment                     20.88               2.61
Subtotal                  585.92              73.24
Contingencies:  (i) Physical               58.24               7.28
(ii) Price                 35.84               4.48
TOTAL                     680.00              85.00
1/
4.04      The estimates -  were prepared by the SEBs and other beneficiaries
in consultation with the CWPC, based on ex-factory prices for similar trans-
mission line materials and substation equipment manufactured in India and
recent prices of imported equipment, adjusted for recent currency realign-
ments. The physical contingency allowance varies for different categories
of equipment, but for the project as a whole it is about 10%. A price
contingency of 5% per annum has been included to cover price escalation
d&uring the construction period for both Indian and foreign manufacturers.
These contingency allowances have been introduced following experience with
Credit 242-IN for which there were no contingencies. Experience has shown
that physical contingencies included in individual project estimates have
p-oved insufficient and price contingencies have become necessary to cover
pf1ice escalation during manufacture.
4705      The transmission system expansion program which has been formulated
results from the planning process followed by the CWPC explained in paragraph
2,15. In the present circumstances the methodology followed can be considered
acceptable, although improved techniques as recommended are desirable. The
total cost of the transmission system expansion (110 kV and above) to be
u;ndertaken during the five-year period, and the proportion that would be
rhe cost estimates in the appraisal report are based on exchange
rates prevailing prior to the recent dollar devaluation. The rupee
has been floating since last June along with Sterling and continues
to float, the present rate being iRs 7.56 to the dollar as against
Rs 8 used in the report.  This means that the local costs of the
project are slightly overstated in the report; the cost of imports,
few of which would be from the US, would be slightly understated.
5n balance, the proportion of our contribution to total project cost
s3hould have remained unaffected by the devaluation.



- 11 -
financed by the proposed credit for the regions involved, are shown in the
following table:
Cost of the Transmission Program (1972/73-76/77)
Projects Under
Proposed Credit
/1
Total Program    Total-               Credit
(US$ Million)             (US$ Million)
NORTHERN REGION (BEAS)
Punjab/Haryana                      91.78         (22.10               (15.89
R.aj asthan                         52.90((
DELHI
Desu                                 8.77           8.77                 4.56
WESTERN REGION
I4adhya Pradesh                     85.54          20.39                 8.93
Tata Power /2                      127.40           8.65                 5.89
EASTERN REGION
Orissa                              88.54          22.04                12.69
NORTH EASTERN
Assam                               26.40           5.06                 2.47
SOUTHERN REGION
Kerala                              26.71          25.09                 8.39
Mysore                              65.38          22.79                12.21
Tamil Nadu                          43.58          10.99                 8.49
GOI
Northern Regional Board              5.00           5.00                 5.00
Southern Regional Board              0.48           0.48                 0.48
TOTAL                         622.48         151.36               85.00
/1   The figures in this column include items to be financed locally, e.g.
erection, civil works in foundations and buildings.
/2   Total program shown is for Maharashtra of which the Tata facilities
form part.
4.06      From the above table it can be seen that the proposed credit will
finance about 14% of the total cost of the five-year transmission program of
the beneficiary states concerned.
Engineering and Construction
4.07      Detailed planning, design and the preparation of bid documents for,
and construction of, transmission lines and substations are undertaken by the
technical staff of the SEBs and the other power agencies concerned which have
satisfactory technical competence. Nevertheless, as in Credit 242-IN, as a
Condition of Effectiveness, the Borrower agreed to obtain from each State



- 12 -
government and respective SEB, DESU, TATA and the BCB an undertaking, satis-
factory to the Association, detailing the manner in which they will execute
their respective parts of the project.
4.08      Because of the heavy programs of transmission construction, many
of the SEBs have built up competent construction departments which would
undertake the construction of many of the lines and substations. There are,
however, in India, a number of experienced contracting firms which would
also be employed to complement, as necessary, the work of the SEBs.
Procurement
4.09      Procurement for the Association financed equipment would be on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Indian manufacturers would be
expected to participate freely in such bidding with a domestic preference
margin of 15% in the evaluation of bids. Until more progress has been made
on bidding in connection with Credit 242-IN there is little experience on
which to base an estimate of the proportion of bids which would be won by
Indian manufacturers. At this time there is little reason to change the
view expressed in Credit 242-r.I that a possible range of the value of such
bids would be 50%-75%. The value of imported components and materials
required by local manufacturers varies considerably for different classes
of equipment, but on the average would represent about 30% of ex-factory
costs. For the range of orders indicated, therefore, direct foreign ex-
change financing from the proposed Credit would be in the range of US$40-55
m:illion.
4.10      In order to prevent procurement delays to the extent possible
assurances were obtained from the GOI during negotiations that when, after
international competitive bidding and the application of preferences in the
manner described above, the lowest bidder is a foreign manufacturer, per-
mission to import will be forthcoming immediately and no reviews by the
Directorate General of Technical Development, or any other agency of the
Central Government will be made.
4.11      Serious procurement problems and delays have occurred under Credit
242-TN in preparing bid documentation suitable for international bidding
and from the very large number of bids resulting from each of the nine
beneficiary SEBs calling tenders for its equipment. The standard conditions
of' contract eventually agreed for Credit 242-IN will be used by the benefi-
cfaries under the proposed Credit and no delays on this account are expected.
Furcher, it was agreed during negotiations that bids for similar equipment
would be combined into a single inquiry by each beneficiary with deliveries
ph'ased to suit construction requirements.
Disbursements
4. 2      Disbursements would be made against:
(a)  the c.i.f. cost of substation equipment and transmission
line materials procured abroad; and



- 13 -
(b) the ex-factory cost, free of taxes, of substation equipment
and transmission line materials procured in India after
international competitive bidding (paragraph 4.09).
Expenditures prior to signing of the Credit would not be reimbursed.  Any
Credit funds remaining on completion of procurement would be cancelled unless
there were good grounds for applying them to additional transmission line
and substation equipment. An estimated Schedule of Disbursements is shown
in Annex 12.
4.13      There were many procurement delays on Power Transmission Project I
(Loan 416-IN) because GOI spent much time deciding which equipment should be
procured in India rather than imported. This problem should be overcome by
the assurances referred to in paragraph 4.10 but, nevertheless, as with
Credit 242-IN, in the interests of expediting procurement, it was agreed
during negotiations that no withdrawals would be made from the Credit Account
with respect to contract for goods and services which are awarded more than
eighteen months after the signing of the Credit Agreement..
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The power sector in India has been characterized by continued
rapid growth. For the beneficiaries involved, demand grew at a rate of 9.5%
per annum during the period 1963/64-1968/69 and is expected to increase at
the rate of about 14% per annum between 1968/69 and 1973/74, the end of the
IVth Five-Year Plan. The demands estimated for 1973/74 are shown in the
following table:



- 14 -
Systems Demand and Growth Rate for 1
States Involved in the Proposed Credit"-
Actual                    Estimated
Growth Rate    Demand      Growth Rate      Demand
1963/64-                 1968/69-
1968/69    1968/69       1973/74       1973/74
Mw                          Nw
DELHI
Desu                         8          190           11            320
WESTERN REGION
Tata Power                   7          855            5           1086
Madhya Pradesh              13          311           15            625
EASTERN REGION
Orissa                       9          250           16            528
SOUTHERN REGION
Kerala                      13          278           14            540
Mysore                      14          442            17           965
Tamil Nadu                   9          998           11           1680
BEAS. CONSTR. BOARD
Punjab/Haryana               6          788           12           1488
Rajasthan                   25          270           12            583
/1   Estimates prepared by the Central Water and Power Commission.
5.02      Although the table indicates a substantial acceleration in growth
during the period 1968/69-1973/74 over the preceding five-year period, the
forecast is considered realistic, particularly since growth (restrained to
a substantial degree by the general recession in India in the years 1966 and
1967) has increased during the last three years to average a little over
11%. The high rate of growth forecast for Mysore and Orissa is occasioned
by rapid industrial development.
5.03      The investment priorities within the sector have reflected a heavy
bias in favor of investment in generating plant at the expense of transmission
and distribution, as discussed in paragraph 2.13. The inadequate investment
in transmission and distribution facilities has resulted in anomalies in the
balance between generation and transmission, leading to surplus capacity in
some areas and power shortages in others. Partly to help correct this
imbalance, Loan 416-IN for US$70 million was made in 1965 for all 15 SEBs
and Credit 242-IN for US$75 million was made in 1971 for transmission
facilities for nine of the fifteen SEBs, mostly in Northern India.
5.04      The recently prepared decade plan contemplates an important expansion
of the transmission system, particularly during the period 1972-77, the con-
struction period of the Project, to permit better utilization of the generat-
ing facilities expected to be available during this period. During the period
there will be an estimated investment of the equivalent of US$950 million in
transmission, of which US$622 million will be invested in the States covered



- 15 -
by the proposed Credit as shown in the table of paragraph 4.05. The latter
figure compares with about US$1300 million to be invested in generating
capacity which is planned to be commissioned in the beneficiary states by
the year 1976/77. The ratio of investment in transmission and generation
indicates a decided improvement over that referred to in paragraph 2.13.
5.05      Regional and nation-wide power systems are now contemplated.
Distances and sizes of power blocks to be transferred require an extensive
power network with transmission line voltages between 220 kV and 400 kV.
The advantages of the inter-regional transmission system, of which the
Project is a part, are widely known and can be summarized as follows:
(a) Enable re'ductions to be made in the future total amount of
generating capacity to be installed as a result of the
increased ability to: (i) combine noncoincident peak loads;
(ii) pool reserve capacities; and (iii) coordinate maJintenance
schedules on generating units;
(b) Achieve substantial fuel cost savings by enabling
optimal balancing of hydro and thermal plant operation
within, and eventually between States; and
(c) Take full advantage of economies of scale by the installation
of larger generating units at the most suitable sites.
5.06      Prior to 1965 the Bank assisted in financing some 1,500 Mw of
generating plant, mostly in the industrial Damodar Valley in the East and
Bombay-Poona area in the West. However, since then, lending has focused
on improving transmission throughout India. Thi.s shift in lending strategy
recognized the need for intercornection of transmission systems through
inter-state and inter-regional lines to improve transfers from surplus
to deficit areas, and, within states, to support the GOI's large rural
electrification program.
5.07      There is no reasonable basis for allocating the benefits of
India's very large sector development program among its various components,
and thus no reasonable basis for estimating the return on the transmission
sub-projects in this program. But, as has been pointed out earlier,
given India 's growing power requirements and the existing distribution
of generating plant completed and under construction, the transmission
program, of which the project forms a part, is required to satisfy
economically these growing demands. The only alternatives - which would
be to plan not to meet demand or to revert to past uneconomic planming
of generating expansion - are not reasonable alternatives.



- 16 -
VI. FINANCIAL SITUATION
General Background
6.01      The Act provides that SEBs should not operate at a loss, which by
definlition is a situation which would occur when annual operating expenses
(before depreciation) exceed annual revenues. Revenues in excess of this
minimum, if any, may then be distributed for the following priority uses:
(a) interest on loans not guaranteed by the State Government; (b) transfer
of depreciation to a reserve; (c) transfers to a general reserve; (d) interest
on guaranteed loans and State Government loans; (e) transfers to a development
f und to finance capital expansion and to repay State Government loans if they
are required to be repaid.
6.02      While the Act permits SEBs to borrow it places no responsibility on
them for repayment. Consequently, few SEBs have been permitted by their
State Governments to set tariffs adequate to cover debt service or, addi-
tionally, to permit reasonable self-financing of capital investments. These
major provisions of the Act are unsuitable. The Act should be revised, not
least because the philosophy behind some of its concepts makes it extremely
difficult for the SEBs to reorganize their financial management practices
toward modern lines.
Financial Self-Sufficiencv
6.03      In 1964 a cormittee set up by the GOI to report on SEB operations
established a policy that SEBs should work towards a modern concept of
financial self-sufficiency. It recommended that SEBs should gradually increase
their revenues to meet operating expenses, interest on loans and to produce
a surplus to help finance capital construction. The Bank associated itself
generally with this policy by requesting undertakings from State Governments
and beneficiary SEBs in connection with Loan 416-IN to achieve interim and
final target rates of return which were aimed at implementing the policy.
A malor objective was, and continues to be, to make SEBs financially viable,
and tais should involve placing definite responsibility on them for producing
revenues, after meeting operating expenses (including depreciation and
taxes) and interest chargeable to operations, sufficient to provide and
maintain working capital, provide for amortization of debt in excess of the
unds generated by depreciation, and provide for a reasonable proportion of
capital expenditure.  Until the 1948 Act is revised as discussed in paragraph
o.U-507, the State Governments and SEBs should be encouraged within the
pert:issive nature of the existing law to work toward these aims.
t6004     SEBs earnings have improved considerably both from normal growth
of sales and from increased tariffs imposed since 1965 in an effort to achieve
the interim rate-of-return targets required under the 416-IN loan agreement.
severtheless, of the six SEBs and DESU which are the proposed beneficiaries
mIeder this credit, only three SEBs and DESU achieved their target returns by
Yi/7 I J (Annex 1).  The remaining three SEBs' failure to do so is largely



- 17 -
attributable to the accelerated pace of rural electrification development
and the resulting heavy losses from operations borne by them which depress
their rates of return, and to concessionary tariffs to agriculture and to
some industrial consumers.
6.05      Conventional measures of financial viability are difficult to apply
for the SEBs and can be misleading. Self-financing of capital expenditure
is an example at present. While most SEBs do manage to contribute "retained.
funds" toward the cost of their construction, this is only in most cases
because they do not amortize State Government loans nor make provision for
the systematic reduction of other debt. Annex 2 shows how Income and Sources
of Funds Statements prepared under the Act would compare with statements
prepared following generally accepted modern practice. Page 3 of the Annex,
prepared using Orissa SEB as the example, highlights the differences. For
the case with RE subsidy, 'revenue' available for capital expenditure under
the Indian system is Rs 27 million; it is Rs 2 million following conventional
practice after providing for interest and for systematic repayment of all
debt. The difference is in recognition in the latter case that debt service
must be accounted for, which is not apparent in the Indian system. In the
case of this particular SEB, which is not typical of others, assuming con-
ventional practice, an 8% rate of return would enable it to cover debt
service on all its indebtedness, and to finance about 25% of capital ex-
penditure. When revised, the Act should require SEBs to make proper annual
provisions for the retirement of debt. In addition the Act should establish
clear tariff guidelines and financial planning objectives.
6.06      GOI has agreed to constitute an expert committee within three
months of the date of the credit agreement to consider amendments to the
Electricity Supply Act in regard to the financial and accounting provisions
contained therein and to keep the Association informed of its progress. GOI
indicated that serious consideration would be given to the retention of a
management consultant to study the Act, make proposals for modification of
the financial provisions and generally advise the committee during its
deliberations.
6.07      As an interim measure, agreement was reached during negotiations
that:
(a) SEBs' losses from RE operation would be subsidized;
(b) Interest during construction would be capitalized; and
(c) The liability for arrears of interest on government loans
payable by SEBs as of March 31, 1970 would be waived by
State Governments or other arrangements made acceptable
to the Association.
These matters are discussed in the following paragraphs.



- 18 -
Subsidy for Losses for RE Operations
6.08      In 1967 GOI shifted the emphasis of its RE policy from domestic
lighting to the electrification of tubewells to exploit underground water
supplies and of pumps used to extract water from rivers to improve agri-
cultural production.  The development achieved from this policy to date is
regarded as spectacular. Water for two and three crops a year is being made
available, electricity is helping to create agricultural and small scale
rural industries, to provide street lighting and to improve domestic
lighting and drinking water supplies. It is also helping to reduce unem-
ployment and to stem migration from rural areas to urban areas. SEBs'
responsibilities embrace both construction and operation of the schemes.
Capital was initially provided by the State Governments by way of loans,
but the success attributed to the policies has forced an accelerated pace
of development and an increase in the overall investment capital required.
Apart from State Government loans, SEBs are raising capital by selling bonds
and borrowing from the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) and other financial institutions. Repay-
ment terms vary from 12 years for bonds, 10-20 years for LIC loans and
20-30 years for REC loans.
6.09      In order to review the impact of RE investment on the finances
of SEBs, GOI agreed in connection with Credit 242-IN to prepare financial
data in respect of each, separating information relating to RE operations
from that relating to the SEBs' other functions. Annex 3. summarizes this
information as it relates to the proposed six beneficiary SEBs in 1971/72.
Since the GOI and State Government RE policies result in expenses (including
depreciation) which far exceed RE revenues there is a strong case for subsidy.
This proposal should not be construed as a tacit endorsement of present RE
tariff policies. It simply recognizes that RE operations generally require
subsidy the world over during the early years. In this connection GOI agreed
during negotiations, as a condition of effectiveness to obtain from each
State Government an assurance in a form to be agreed between GOI and the
Association to provide its SEB with an annual subsidy equivalent to the
amount by which such Board's operating expenses (including depreciation and
interest) in respect of its rural electrification operations exceeds its
revenues from such operations, and that the first subsidy should be paid in
respect of fiscal year 1973/74 for those States not already providing the
subsidy defined above. The GOI also agreed to arrange for the preparation
of proforma statements of financial data relating to RE operations for each
Board to be continued in respect of fiscal years subsequent to 1971/72.  This
information will be submitted to the Association.
Capitalization of Interest
6.10      With a view to reducing the amount of interest charged against
current operations, and to permit comparison of Indian SEBs' financial
performance with other utility operations, SEBs should be permitted to
capitalize interest during construction as has been normal practice with
most accounting systems for years. During negotiations the GOI confirmed
that no later than December 31, 1973, it '.',uld (i) provide all states of
India as well as their Electricity Boards witlh appropriate guidelines for the



capitalization of interest during construction and (ii) obtain from each
State an assurance satisfactory to the Association to cause its Board to
capitalize interest during construction in accordance with those guidelines.
It is appreciated that action in respct of the above is contingent upon the
outcome of the recommendations of the Sixth Finance Commission to which the
question of capitalization of interest during construction had been referred.
Interest Arrears on Government Loans
6.11      In Credit 242-IN attention was drawn to the considerable arrears of
interest on State Government loans by SEBs which accumulated in the past as
a result of insufficient tariffs. The following table shows the liabilities
on that account as of March 31, 1972.
Arrears of Interest      Total US Equivalent
Electricity Board         (Rs  Million)              ($ Million)
Assam                       264                        33
Kerala                       89                        11
Madhya Pradesh               29                         4
Mysore                        8                         1
Orissa                        -                         -
Tamil Nadu                    -
DESU                                                    -
6.12      Until these interest arrears are removed from the SEBs' books, the
priorities established by the Act (paragraph 6.01) require surplus funds to
be applied to their reduction before being applied to finance capital
expenditure. During the mission, verbal assurances were given by four
States (Kerala, Mysore, Orissa and Tamil Nadu) that the accumulated arrears
of interest would either be waived or other arrangements made to enable
SEBs to dispose of these outstanding liabilities. Assam and Madhya Pradesh
were unable to make any commitment at that stage. As a condition of
effectiveness of the respective share of the credit for each SEB, GOI agreed
during negotiations to obtain from each State Government an assurance to
waive, or make other arrangements acceptable to the Association for the
disposal of, any claim such State may have against its Board for payment
of interest arrears accumulated up to March 31, 1970, or such other later
date as may be mutually agreed to between the States and their Boards.
This will transfer the loss to the State Governments where it belongs since
it resulted principally from State Government tariff policy, and make it
possible for SEBs (having been relieved of the liability) to use their
'surplus' funds for capital expenditures. In the case of the State of
Assam such action and all payments of principal and interest on such loans
shall be deferred until such time as the division of the assets and
liabilities of its Board between the three new States of Assam, Meghalaya,
and Mizoram shall have been determined.
Future Financial Position
6.13      The financial forecasts shown in Annexes 4-10 for each of the
beneficiary SEBs and DESU reflect decisions that (a) revenue will not be



- 20 -
applied against the interest arrears on Government loans as of March 31,
1970; (b) annual losses krom RE operations will be covered by State subsidy;
and (c) interest during construction will be capitalized.
6.14      The forecasts show that in FY 1971/72 Madhya Pradesh, Mysore,
Tamil Nadu and Delhi achieved or maintained their target rates of return
set under Loan 416-IN; while Orissa, Kerala, and Assam, lagging behind,
need further rate increases or other appropriate actions to achieve the
agreed interim targets. As State Governments will start subsidizing losses
from RE operations from April 1973, SEBs will be relieved of these heavy
expenses and be able to show increased returns and additional cash flow.
The target rates of return previously established under the 416-IN for
each beneficiary will be continued subject to any modification as may be
agreed between the Association and GOI following supervision of the credit.
As in the case of Loan 416-IN, it is considered that the provisions of the
Act on rate of return and requirements on audited financial statements in
respect of private licensees are satisfactory and no rate of return under-
taking will be required from TATA as its financial performance continues
to be acceptable. In the case of Assam, immediate prospects for a substan-
tial improvement in its rate of return are limited because the expected
growth in the power market, on the basis of which its present facilities
were planned, has not materialized - mainly due to the uncertainties arising
from the Indo-Pakistan hostilities in recent years and political unrest in
the area. The relationship of the SEB to the three new States entities
nto which Assam has been divided is not yet ciear. This problem together
with the need to improve earnings will be reviewed in depth during super-
vision of the dredit.
6.15      The Source and Application of Funds Statements shown on page 2 of
Annexes 4-10 reveals the relatively high proportion of capital expenditure
which most SEBs will be able to finance when the State Governments agree
to points (a) - (c) of paragraph 6.13. However, the ability to finance
these apparently large proportions arises because:
(a)  little or no attempt is made by SEBs to repay the
principal of State Government loans and repayment at
any rate is not presently required; and
(b)  systematic provision for repayment of non-State
Government loans is not made.
6.16      Defining an SEB's financial viability involves interpreting within
wide limits the 'reasonable' proportion of the capital investment from year
to year.  The amount of revenue available for this would be after 'reasonable'
provision for amortization of long-term debt. In the Indian context this
means clarifying whether State Governments will require SEBs to amortize
their loans; the extent State Government loans may be regarded as nonrepayable
grants; the terms of any repayment; what annual provision (i.e. sinking fund)



- 21 -
should be made for non-State Government loans repayable in a lump sum at
the end of the loan period; how loan repayments may be financed. Only when
'reasonable' has been clarified will it be possible to judge the appropriate
proportion 1/ of capital expenditure which SEBs would be expected to finance
from internally generated funds.  These problems will require lengthy
consideration by GOI, the State Governments and SEBs before finally being
resolved. This could not reasonably be achieved as a condition of the credit
now being proposed. The Association drew the GOI's attention to these
problems at the time of negotiations, but it is realized that until the
Act has been amended, little progress can be made towards resolving them.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotations the Borrower agreed:
(a) to reactivate the CEA and transfer to it the Power Wing
of the CWPC (paragraph 2.06);
(b) to undertake to strengthen the co-ordination of its power
sector planning with that of other economic sectors and
with the work of other of its agencies operating in the field
of energy planning; to extend the scope of such planning to
cover a 15 year period and to initiate forthwith the pre-
paration of a comprehensive power development plan to be
updated annually (paragraph 2.17);
(c) that all procurement will be on the basis of international
competitive bidding and that when, after the application of
a domestic preference of 15%, the lowest evaluated bidder is
a foreign manufacturer, permission to import will be issued
promptly and no further reviews by agencies of the Central
Government will be made (paragraphs 4.09 and 4.10);
(d) that standard conditions of contract agreed for Credit
242-IN will be used by the proposed beneficiaries for all
procurement and that bids for similar equipment required by
*                   each SEB will be combined into a single enquiry (paragraph
4.11);
(e) that no withdrawals shall be made from the Credit account
with respect to contracts for goods and services which are
awarded more than eighteen months after the signing of the
Credit Agreement (paragraph 4.13);
(f) to constitute an expert committee within 3 months of the date
of the credit agreement, to consider amendment of the financial
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948 (paragraph 6.06);
and



- 22 _
(g) to provide appropriate guidelines in respect of
capitalization of interest during construction
(paragraph 6.10).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions the Borrower has agreed
that the Credit Agreement shall not come into force and effect in respect
of the part of the credit to be made available to any one of the SEBs, DESU,
Tata and the Beas Construction Board until the Borrower shall have obtained
from:
(a)  each beneficiary an undertaking, satisfactory to the
Association, detailing the manner in which the respective
parts of the Project will be executed (paragraph 4.07);
(b)  each SEB and its respective State Government and DESU an
undertaking agreeing to maintain the rate of return targets
agreed under the Loan 416-IN (paragraph 6.14);
(c)  each of the respective State Governments an undertaking
agreeing to:
(i) subsidize losses of the SEB arising from rural
electrification operations (paragraph 6.09); and
(ii)  waive, or make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to dispose of, the SEBs' liability to
pay arrears of interest on State Government loans
accumulated as of March 31, 1970 or other later date
as may be mutually agreed to between the States
and the Boards (paragraph 6.12).
7.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$85 million equivalent.
February 26, 1973



INDIA - Power Transmission III
Target and Attained Rates of Return
Actual                           Forecast
State Electricity Board             1970/71  1971/72      1972/73   1973/77  -974/75   1975/76
Assam     Target                  2.5      3.0          4.5       6.0         -          -
Attainment             1.1       1.2         1.6        5.7      6.3        6.7
Kerala    Target                  8.5       -            -        9.5        -        -
Attainment              5.3      7.2          7.8       7.2       7.1       6.2
Madbya    Target                  8.5        -          9.5         -        -          -
Pradesh    Attainment             10.4      9.6          9.1      12.2      12.0      12.1
Itsore    Target                   -       8.0           -         9.5       -          -
Attainment              8.8      9.8         4.0 /1   13.8      13.7       13.7
Orissa    Target                   -       8.0           -        9.5        -          -
Attainment              2.5      3.3         5.1        6.9      7.9        9.6
Tamil     Target                  8.5        -          9.5         -        -          -
Nadu      Attainment              8.9      8.5          8.5        9.3     10.3      10.4
Delhi     Target                  8.0        -          9.0        9.5       -
ESU      Attainrent              9.3     11.2         10.0        9.6      9.4        9.7
/1   The low return reflects the shortage of water in Sharavathy Reservoir following
the monsoon failure in 1972/73 and a 25% out in energy imposed.
February 21, 1973.



I           I                                                                                                                                                 A



INDIA - Orissa State Electricity Board
Comparison between Income Statements and Sources of Funds prepared in accordance
with present Indian Law and those prepared following modern management practice
(In millions of Rupees unless otherwise stated)
Indian Law                                                                         Modern Practice
Fiscal Year 1971/1972                            Excluding    Including        Fiscal Year 1971/1972                           Excluding    Including
RE Subsidy   RE Subsidy       F1                                                Subsidy   RE Subsidy
Income Statements                                                                 Income Statements
Revenue                                           136            136               Revenue                                       136          13b
State Govt. Subsidy for RE                         -              9                State Govt. Subsidy for RE                     -             9
Expenses (excluding depreciation) - h              (74)          (4)               Expenses (including depreciation)            (102)        (102)
Surplus Revenue                                    62            71
Less Depreciation                                  28             28
Operating Income (before interest)                 34 - /2       43                Operating Income (before interest)             34           43
Less Interest for year                             34            41                Less Interest for year                         41           (41)
Operating Income (after interest)                   -              2               Operating Income (after interest)             (7)             2
Less Income Tax (approx) - /3                       -             -                Less Income Tax (approx) - /3                  -             -
Net Income                                         _               2               Net Income                                     7              2
Sources of funds available for capital                                            Sources of funds available for capital
Internal Generating Funds
Net Income                                                        2                    Operating Income (before interest)         34           43
Less Repayment of State Govt. loans - /4            -                                  Depreciation                               28           28
-- _ _Cash Generated during year                                 62           71
Balance available for construction                 _              2                Less Debt Service
Interest                                  (41)         (41)        X
Cash Generated by Depreciation - /5                28             28                   Amortization - /6                         (28)         (28)     ( 
Less Maturities of Non State Govt. Loan              3             3               Less Tax                                      ( f            -      ao
Net Internal Generation                      ( 7)           2
Balance available for construction                  25            25                                         .
la
Borrowing                                         144            142               Borrowing                                     176           167    m
Total Sources                                     169            169                Total Sources                                169           169
Application                                                                      Application
Capital Expenditure                               169            169                Capital Expenditure                          169           169
February 22, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
Notes of Annex 2 page 1
1.      Expenses before depreciation
2.      Payment of interest restricted to available cash generated by
operating income (before interest).
3.      Incame tax is normally calculated at the rate of approximately
52% of operating income (after interest) It is understood that
taxes would not be payable on State Government subsidies.
4.      No provision is made for the repayment of State Government
loans since priority is giver. to meet capital expenditure.
5.      The Electricity (Supply) Act provides for the transfer of
cash to the Depreciation Reserve Fund to meet maturities of
loans raised from sources other than State Governments. Such
loans are repayable either by periodical installments of
principle or in lumpsums at the end of the loan period. The
Annual depreciation not required to meet loan repayment is,
therefore, available for capital investment.
6.      The revised provision for amortization of debt is assumed
to be within the amount of cash generated by depreciation.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
INDIA - ORISSA SEB
STATISTICS (to be read in conjunction with page 1)
Indian Law        Modern Practice
Fiscal Year 1971/72              Without      With     Without    With
Subsidy    Subsidy   Subsidy   Subsidy
(In millions of Rupees except as otherwise stated)
1. Rate Base                                   1,037      1,037       1,037    1,037
2.  Operating Income (before interest)            34          43         34       43
3. Less Interest                                (34) -  tl             (41)     (41)
4.  Operating Income (after interest)            -            2          7)       2
5. Add Depreciation                              28          28         28       28
6. Cash Generation (net of interest)             28          30         21       30
7.  Less Maturities on Non Govt. Loans          ( 3)        ( 3)  )/   28         8
8. Less Repayment of Govt. loans                 -            _      2 (2)      (28)
9.  Revenue Contribution to capital              25          27          7)       2
10. Borrowing                                   144         142        176      167
11. To meet capital investment                  1 9        -169T 169-            69
12. Rate of Return                              3.3%        4.6%       3.3%     4.6%
13. Revenue Contribution (line 9) as %
of Investment                           15%        19%          -       1%
14. Additional Revenue to meet 25%
of Investment after debt service        -          -            -       40
15. Additional Revenue to meet 56A Return       65          56          -       -
16. Representing % increase in sales
Revenue                                 54%        47%          41%     33%
17. Revised Operating Income
(before interest)                       99         99          83       83
18. Revised Rate of Return                      9.5%        9.5%        8%      8%
/1  Interest excluded from this amount and not paid was Rs. 7 million.
/2  Provision for amortization of debt is assumed within the annual
cash generated by depreciation.
February 23, 1973



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i



INDIA
Statement showing Financial Operations of State Electricity Boards in
FY 72 includinR Subsidy tocover losses from RE Operations
(In millions of Rupees, except as otherwise stated)
Mysore SEB                                            Kerala SEE
Year to March 1972                                       Rural         Overall SEB Operations             Rural          Overall SEB  _perations
Electrification   Excluding   Including         Electrification    Excluding   Including
Operations        Subsidy       Subsidy         Operations           Subsidy      Subsidy
1.   Operating Revenue                                                    37                355          355                36                193           193
2.   Govt. Subsidy for RE                                                  -                -             49                -                  -             18
3.   Operating Expenses (including depreciation)                          60                245          245                43                135           135
4.   Operating Income or(Deficit)                                         (23)              110           159               (7)                 58 - L       76 - L
5.   Less Interest on loans (Net of capitalized interest)                 (26)              (74)          (74)             (11)              ( 92)          (92)
6.   Surplus or (loss) from operations                                    (49)               36            85              (18)                (34)         (16)
7.   Rate Base                                                                            1,092        1,092                                  966           966
8.   Rate of Return %                                                                      10.1         14.6                                   6,0          7.9
Ma&hya Pradesh SEB                                Tamil Nadu SEB
Year to March 1972                                        Rural         Overall SEB Operations             Rural          Overall SEB Operations
Electrification   Excluding   Including         Electrification   Excluding   Including
Operations         Subsidy      Subsidy         Operations         Subsidy       Subsidy
1.   Operating Revenue                                                     79               352           352                296               789          789
2.   Govt. Subsidy for RE                                                  -                 -             55                 -                 -           100 -/2
3.   Operating Expenses (including depreciation)                         108                219 _          92                321              543           543
4.   Operating Income or(Deficit)                                         (29)               133          188                (25)              246          346
5.   Less Interest on loans (Net of capitalized interest)                 (26)             ( 104)- Ll   (104)- /1            (62)             (209)        (209)
6.   Surplus or (loss) from Operations                                    (55)               29            84                (87)               37          137
7.   Rate Base                                                                            1,352        1,352                                2,799         2,799
8.   Rate of Return %                                                                       9.8          13.9                                  8.2         12.4
Orissa SEB                                       Assam SEB  L-3
Year to March 1972                                        Rural          Overall SEB Operations            Rural          Overall SEB Operations
Electrification   Excluding   Including          Electrification   Excluding   Including
Operations         Subsidy      Subsidy         Operations          Subsidy      Subsidy
1.   Operating Revenue                                                      22              136           136                 4                47           47
2.   Govt. Subsidy for RE                                                   -                 -             9                 -                 -            5
3.   Operating Expenses (including depreciation)                            26              108           108                 7                42           42
4.   Operating Income or(Deficit)                                           (4)               28           37                (3)                5           10
5.   Less Interest on loans (Net of capitalized interest)                   (5)              (38)         (38)               (2)              (37)         (37)
6.   Surplus or loss from operations                                        (9)             (10)           (1)               (5)              (32)         (27)
7.   Rate Base                                                                              877           877                                472           472
8.   Rate of Return %                                                                       3.2           4.2                                  1.1          2.1
/I   Interest during construction not capitalized.
/2   Includes Rs. 13 million to cover industrial tariff subsidy.
/3   Figures refer tD FY 70/71 only.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I



INDIA - Assam State Electricitz Board
Income Statement for Fiscal Years 1970 and 1971 (Actual) and 1972 thmg1    (Forecast)
(In milllons of Rupees except as otherwise indicated)
M4arch 31                                               Actual                     Forecast
197t~    1971    1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
1.  Total Installed Capacity (MW)                                             153     153      171    206    236    236    236
2.  Maximum Effective Capacity (MW)                                           118     118      122    143    186    186    186
3.  Simultaneous Peak Demand (M)                                               64      67       91    112    156    172    203
4.  Thermal Generation (GWh)                                                  183     206      229    320    511    525    590
50  Hydro Generation (GWh)                                                    126     154      189    239    239    239    239
6. Energy Purchased (GWh)                                                      -        -       -       -       -     125    173
7.  Total Generated and Purchased (GWh)                                       Y59     36       4       559    75 T Bfl8T1O
8. Losses (GWh)                                                                59       71      81    111    144    148    190
9.  Sales (GWh)                                                               250     2"       337    440    bob    741    6
10, Average Revenue per kwh sold (Paise)                                       14.4    15.6    16.0   15.0   15.5   15.5   15.9
Operating Revenue
11.     Sales                                                                  36       45      54      67      94    115    129
12.     Subsidy - Rural 'Electrification                                       -        -       -       -        6      6       6
13.     Miscellaneous                                                           4        2       3       2       3      3       4
14.     Total Revenue                                                          40       47      57      69    103    124    139
Operating Expenses
15.     Fuel                                                                    3        3       3       4       6      6       8
16.     Other Operating Expenses                                               18       20      27      32     30      31      33         1 
17.     Purchase of Power                                                      -        -       -       -       -       7       8
18.     Dapreciation                                                           19       19      21      24      28     32      36            M
190        Total Expenses                                                      40       42      51      60      64      76
20. Operating Income (before interest)                                         -         5       6       9      39     48      54 
21. Less Interest for Year (Net of interest capitalized)                      (37)    (37)    (42)  -(45)   (47)   (49)   (52)
oq
22. Net Surplus or (deficit)                                                  (37)    (32)    (36)   (36)       8)              2)
23. Rate Base                                                                 472     472      484    577    686    758    801
Percentages
24. Rate of Retum  (20 related to 23) %                                        -         1.1     1.2    1.6    5.7    6,3    6.7
25. Interest for Year (21 related to 23) %                                      7.8      7.8     8.7    7.8    6.9    6.5    6.5
26. Operating Ratio (19 related to 14) %                                      100       89      89      87     62      61      61
/1  The projections shown above are in respect of the SEB before the formation of the separate States of Assam, Meghalaya
and Mizoram.  New projections cannot be prepared until an appropriate division of assets between the three new States has
been agreed.



INDIA   Assam State Electricity Board
Statement of Source and App lication of Funds for Years 1972 through 1976
(In millions of Rupees)
As at March 31                              1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
O6peration Income                            6       9      39     48     54
Depreciation                                21      24      28     32     36
To-tal Internal Cash Generation                        37 7    M 0    95
Borrowings
State Government Loans                       8      32      24     48     51
Assam SEB Bonds                             30       6      -      -       -
Life Insurance Corporation Loans            20      20      -      10      20
Rural Electric Corporation Loans             1       1       1      1       1
Total Borrowings                        59      7        5     5      7
TOTAL SOURCES                    86       92     92    139    162
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital  Expenditure                           80      66      51     88    107
Debt  Service
Inti3rest on Loans          .42                     45      47     49     52
Amortization of Debt 12                     -       17       2      3       3            1 t
Total Debt Service                     7         2      4       2     7              aQ
Deduct: Contingent Liability for           (
Interest on Loan Unpaid  /3       (36)    (36)      8)
Debt Service Actually Paid                                  iT T 
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                86       92     92    139    162             t
_~~ -   -  
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                                                          0
Intemral Cash Generation                    .6       .4     .9     1.3    1.4
Internal Generation available for capital
as a % of the Construction Program         25%      7%    50%    33%    31%
/1   Interest has been capitalized at 6% of average work in progress.
77   No systematic provision for debt repayment except maturities on non Govt. debt.
Z3   Interest not paid dUe to insufficient tariffs.
4    February 15, 1973



INDIA - Kerala State Electricity Board
Income Statement for Fiscal Years 1970 and 1971 (Actuals) and 1972 Through 1976 (Forecasts)
(In Millions of Rupees, except as otherwise stated)
Actuals                             Forecasts
March 31                                           1970      1971          L972       1973       1974       1975
1.  Total Installed Capacity (Mw)                                         547        547           547       622       .622       1012      1012
2.  Maximum Effective Capacity (MW)                                       441        441           441       512        512        862        862
3.   Simultaneous Peak Demand (Mw)                                        408        440           465       512        620        677        787
4.  Thermal Generation (GWh) 
5.   Hydro Generation (GWh)                                              2006       2126         2293       2706       2967       3310       3820
6.   Energy Purchased (GWh)                                                26         20             3         3         -          -          -
7.  Total Generated and Purchased (GWh)                                  2032       2146         2296       2709       2967       3310      3820
8.   Losses (Gwh)                                                         293        276           321       406        446        480        560
9.   Sales (GWh)                                                         1739       1870          1975      2303       2521       2830       3260
10.  Average Revenue per KWh sold - Paise (excluding Subsidy)               7.7       8.7           8.7        8.8       9.0        9.7        9.8
Operating Revenue
11.   Sale of Electricity                                                   133       161           177       203        227        275        320
12.a  Subsidy - Rural Electrification                                       -          -             15         21        23         27         30
12.b  Miscellaneous                                                         12         13            1-4        14        19         21         24
13.   Total Revenue                                                        145        174           206        238       269        323        374
Operatin Expenses
14.  Other Expenses                                                         81         87            98        113       130        148        169
15.   Purchase of Power                                                      2          3             1         1         -          -          -
16.   Depreciation                                                          31         33            35         38        44         47         64
17.   Total Expenses                                                       114        123           134        152       174        195        233
18.   Operating Income (before Interest)                                    31         51            72         86        95        128        141
19.   Less - Interest chargeable to Revenue                                 (67)      (82)          (60)       (63)       (64)      (88)      (109)
20.   Net Surplus or (Deficit)                                              (36)       (31)         (12)        23        31         40         32
21.   Rate Base                                                            931        960          1002      1104       1327       1810       2265
Percentages lf
22.   Rate of Return- (18 related to 21)2/                    %            3.4        5.3           7.2        7.8       7.2        7.1        6.2
23.   Interest for Year (19 related to 21)-Il                              7.2        8.5           6.0        5.7        4.8       4.9        4.8     t
24.   Operating Ratio (17 related to 13)                      %             79         71            65         64        65         60         63     %
j  Kuttiyadi Hydro Plant (75 MW) commissioned FY 72 and Idikki I (390 MW) in FY 75.
2  Six percent of average work in progress is treated as capitalized interest and has been deducted.  (Effective FY 72)
February 16. 1973



INDIA - Kerala State Electri-ciy 
Statement of Source and Application of Funds for Years 1972 Through 1976
As at March 31                        1972          1973           1974           1975           1976
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                            72            86             95            128            141
Depreciation                                35             38            44             47             64
Total Internal Cash Generation       I07                           139            177            205
Borrowings
State Government Loans                     138           162            159            211            135
Kerala SEB Bonds                            40             40            40             40             40
Life Insurance Corporation Loans            30             50            50             50             50
Rural Electric Corporation Loans             9             18             22            -              -
Total Borrowings                     27                            2 71           301
TOTAL SOURCES              324            394           410            476            430
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital-Exenditure                           259            324           336            375            300
Debt Service
Interest I/                                 6o            63             64             88            109
Amortization of Non Government Loans 2/   5                 7            10             13             31
Amortization of Government Loans            s
Total Debt Service                                   70             74            101            130
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         324            394            410           476            430  , 
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by
Internal Cash Generation                       1.6            1.8           1.9            1.7            1.6  4
Net Internal Cash Generation as a % of
the  capital expenditure                     .16%            17%           19%            20s             22%  9
1/  Net of Interest capitalized at six percent of average work in progress.
Maturities of non Government loans payable only from the cash generated by Depreciation.
No provision is madefor repayment of Government loans.
February 16, 1973
4  4                                                        4      4



INDIA - Madhya Pradesh Flere iL.ity Board
Tncome Statement for  isal Ypers 170 rand 1Q71 (ActLa)) ar2d 1079 through 19'76 (Forecact)
(In Millions of Rupees Except as Otherwi se Stated)
March 31                                       Actuals                           Forecasts
1970    1971         1972      1973     1974    1975        1976
1.  Total installed Capacity (MW)                      671     709         709        758       758      868       988
2. Maximum effective Capacity (MW)                     544     645         615       645        695      805       925
3.  Simultaneous Peak Demand (MW)                      393     534         580       655        65o      740       960
4.  Thermal Generation (Kwh)                          1834    2334        2473      2531       2820     3675      5410
5. Hydro Generation (Kwh)                              379     472         501       515        600      600       600
6.  Energy Purchased (Kwh)                               9      13          [2        16         -         -        -
7.  Total Energy Generated and Purchased (Kwh)        2222    2819        3016      3062       3420     4275      6010
8.  Losses (Kwh)                                       442     555         628        612       675      750       942
9.  Sales (Kwh)                                       1780    2264        2388       2450      2745     3525      5068
10. Average Revenue per Kwh Sold - Paise               12.8    13.4        13.8       13.8      14.0     12.3      10.4
Operating Revenue:
11.    Sales                                            228      303        330        338       383       434      528
12.  Subsidy - Rural Electrification                     -        -          -          -         47       47        47
13.    Miscellaneous                                     19       22         22         23        19        20        21
14.  Total Revenue 2/                                   247      325        352        361       449       501      596
Operating Expenses:
15.    Fuel                                              40       61         69         71        65        84      120
16.    Other Operating Expenses                          58       77         89         83        84        88       93
17.    Cost of Purchased Power                            1        1          1         -         -         -         -
18.    Depreciation                                      46       53         60         70        77        85      10D
19.  Total Expenses                                     145      192        219        224       226       257       313
20.  Operating Income (before Interest)  1/             102      133        133        137       223       244      283
21 . Less Interest Chargeable to Revenue                (90)    (93)         (97)     (110)    (118)    (133)    (154)
22.    Contributions to Redemption Flund                 (1)      (5)                   -         -         -
23.  Net Income                                          11       35         36         27       105       111      129
24.  Rate Base                                         1218    1282        1377       1507      1830      2034     2336
Percentages
25.  Rate of Return (20 related to 24)            %     8.4    10.4         9.6        9.1      12.2      12.0      12.1
26.  Interest for year (21 related to 24)         %     7.4      7.3        7.0        7.3       6.4       6.5      6.6
27. Operating Ratio (19 related to 14)           %       59       59         62         62        50        51       53
]  Interest during construction has been capitalized at 6% of average work in progress.(Effective FY 72)
0F
Februar~y 16, 1973                                                                                                           '
0'



INDIA -     a Pradesh EIectrict  Board
Statement of Scurce and Aplgathion of Funds for Years 19729 
(In Million.s ofRuees)
As at March 31                        1.972         1973           1974           19 75          1976
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal, Cash Generation
perating Income                            133            137           223            2hl            283
Depreciation                                60             70             77            85            100
Total Internal Caeh Ge.,eration      193            207            300            329            383
State Government Loans                     73             68             79            lll             43
Madhya Pradesh SEB Bonds                    55             55            80             80             80
Life Insurance Corporation Loans            25             35            50             30             50
Rural Electric Corporation Loans            3$             35           105             19              6
Total Borrowings                     188            193            314            240            179
TOTAL, SOURCES             381            400            614           569            562
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
<;S           >,                             276            280           471            407            377
Income Tabi_Li                                 $              6            19             20             20
Debt Service
Amortization of Non Government Loans         3              4              6              9            11
Interest                                    97           110            118                           15
Total Debt Service                   100            11442
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         381            400            614           569            562
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by
Internal Cash Generation                       1.9           1D8            2.4            2.3            2.3
Net Internal Cash Generation as a % of
the capital expenditure                        32%           31%            j3%           41%            52%
1/  Maturities of non Government loans payable only from the cash generated by  Depreciation. No                        1
provision is made for repayment of Governmenit loans.
February 16, 1973
1                                                                        i V



INDIA - Mysore State Electricity Board                                                              i
Income Statement for Fipcal Years 1970 and 1971 (Actuals) and 1972 through 1976 (Forecasts)
(In Millions of Rupees, except as otherwise stated)
March 31                                   Actual                                       -Forecasts
1a9703       1971        1972         1973         1974         1975          1976
1.  Total Installed Capacity (MW)                       221          221          221          221          221         2221          221
2.  Maximum Effective Capacity (MW)                     165          165          165          165          165          165          165
3.  Simultaneous Peak Demand (MW                        770          852          893          755         1000         1100         1150
.4.  Thermal Generation (Gwh) 
5.  Hydro Generation (Gwh)                             1252         1236         4933         4312         5142         5142         5142
6.  Energy Purchased (Gwh)  /                          1971         3497          -            -            317          840         1147
7.  Total Generated and Purchased (Gwh)                3223         4733         4933         4312         5459         5982         6289
8.  Losses (Gwh)                                        560          697          782          647          819          897          943
9.  Sales (Gwh)                                        2663         4036         4151         3665         4640         5085         5346
10.  Average Revenue per Kwh sold (Paise)                8.7          7.6          8.o          7.6          8.4          8.5          8.7
Operating Revenne:
11.    Sales of Electricity                              232          305          333          280          391          432           463
12.a   Subsidy - Rural Electrification                    -            -                         -             65           67           68
12.b   Miscellaneous                                        9          15           22           25           25           40            56
13.      Total                                            241         323          355          305          401          539           507
Operating Expenses:
14.  Cost of purchased power                               71         105           -            -            16            42           57
15.  Lease of Sharavati and Bhadhra 2E                     -             1         101           96           96           96            96
16.  Other Operating and Maintenance                      62           88          109          117          103          108           113
17.  Depreciation                                          33          37           34           41           58           65           73
18.     Total                                            167          231          24h          254          273          311           339
19.  Operating Income (before Interest)                    75          89          111           51          208           228          248
20.  Less Interest  3/                                    (58)        (63)      ,  (66)          (72)         (78)         (82)         (82)
21.  Net Income                                            17          26                        (21)        130          146          166
22.  Rate Base                                           925         1010         1025768
Percentages
23.  - Rate of Return (19 related to 22) *          o    8.1          8.8          9.8          4.0         13.8          13.7         13.7
24.  - Interest for Year (20 related to 22) /    3    6.3             6.2          5.8          5.7          5.2           4.9          4.5
25.  Operating Ratio (18 related to 13)            %     69           72          69           83           57           58           58
v  Up to FY 71 MSEB purchased energy from Mysore Power Corporation's hydro plant and from FY 72 leased the plant at Sharavati and
Bhadhra. From FY 74 MSEB will require to purchase energy from neighboring states.
J Lease still not finalized.
,   Six percent of average work in progress is capitalized interest and has been deducted. ( from FY 72)
February 16, 1973                                                                                                                             42
PtI



INDIA -Ywsore State Electricity Board
Statement of Source and Ap lication of Funds for Years 197Touh196
TIn Milli-ons of Rupes
As at March 31                  1972           1973           1974           1975          1976
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                                          5.            208            228            248
Depreciation   .34                                        41             58             65             73
Total Internal Cash Generation       145             92                           293            321
State Government Loans                      64           130 .           22             37             19
Mysore - SEB Bonds                          70            66             48             50             40
Life Insurance Corporation Loans            20             30            30             30             30
Rural Electric Corporation Loans            20             26            10              8             20
Total Borrowings                     174            252            110            125           109
TOTAL SOURCES              319            344           376            418            430
e   c         :S=:=s=                        =
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Ependit-ure                          220            258           270            290            300
Debt Service
interest ia/                               66            51             78             82             82
Amortization of Non Government Loans 2/   33               35            28             46             48
Amortization of Government Loans            -
Total Debt Service                    99             86            io6            128            130
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         319            344           376            418            430
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by                                          -              -
Internal Cash Generation                       1.4          2.1            2.5            2.3            2.5
Net Internal Cash Generation as a % of
the  capital expenditure                      17           115            59             57             64 11
1/ Net of interest capitalized at six percent of average work in progress.
2/ Maturities of non Goverment loans payable only from the cash generated by Depreciation.  No
provision is made for repayment of Government loans.
February 16 1973



A    l
INDIA - Orissa State Electricity Board
Income Statement for Fiscal Years 1970 and 1971 (Actuals) and 1972 through 1976 (Forecasts)
(In Millions of Rupees except as otherwise indicated)
Actuals                            Forecasts
March 31                                          1970      1971          1972       1973      1974       1975      1976
1.   Total Installed Capacity (Mw)                                      280       520          530        520        520       520        520
2.   Maximum Effective Capacity (MW)                                    120       274          2h5        274        274       274        274
3.   Simultaneous Peak Demand (MW)                                      299       280          260        400        364       505        475
4.  Thermal Generation (GWh)                                             -        455           518       893        711      1385       1235
5.   Hydro Generation (GWh)                                             806       999          1107      1005       1005      1005       1005
6.  Energy Purchase (GWh)                                               623       299           267       245        592       531       1306
7.  Total Generated and Purchased (GWh)                                1429      1753          18-9      2143       2308      2921       3546
8.   Losses (GWh)                                                        98       218           230       265        269       373        416
9.   Sales (GWh)                                                       1331      1535          1661      1878      2039       2548       3130
LO.   Average Revenue per KWh sold - Paise                              7.2        7.3          7.2        8.5       8.8        8.5        8.8
)perating Revenue
Ll.   Sales                                                              93        110          120        153       177        207        255
,2. a Government Subsidy-- Industrial Tariff                              3          3             3         3          3         9         21
L2.b  Government Subsidy - Rural Electrification                         -          -            -          -          14        18         18
L2. c  Miscellaneous                                                     10          8            13        17        16         17         18
L3.  Total Revenue                                                       106       121          136        173       210        251        312
)gerating Expenses
L4.  Fuel                                                                 1         13           15         ?2         17        33         30
5.  Other Expenses                                                       33        51            52         52        52         53        53
L6.  Cost of Purchased Power                                             18          9             7         7         21        19         50
L7.  Depreciation                                                        20         27           28         33         36        41         45
-8.  Total Expenses                                                      72        100          102        114       126        146        17(8
9.   Operating Income (before Interest)                                  34         21           34         59        84       105        134
'O.   Less Interest (net of capitalized interest)                        (28)      (40)          (41)      (64)       (74)      (81)       (87)
'1.  Net Surplus or (Deficit)                                             6        (19)           (7        (5)       10         24         47        1 
)2.  Rate Base                                                          695        852         1037       1159      1225       1328       1391         o
?ercentages
'3.   Rate of Return (19 related to 2,2)                                4.9       2.5            3.3       5.1       6.9        7.9        9.6         N
)4.  Interest for Year (20 related to 22)                               4.o        4.7           4.0       5.5       6.o        6.1        6.3        t
15.  Operating Ratio (18 related to 13)                                  68         82           75         66         60        58         57
February 16,1973



INDIA -~ Orissa auate Electri2-it  Bord
Statement of Source and A ication of Funds for Year 2Through976
pIn Mi llions
As at March 31                   1972           1973          1974            1975           1976
cSORCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                            34             59             84            lo6            134
Depreciation                                28             33             36             42             45
Total Internal Cash Generation         62             92            120                           179
Borrowings
State Government Loans                      67             64             -
Orissa SEB Bonds                            40             70             70             -              -
Life Insurance Corporation Loans            17             20             30             35             40
Rural Electric Corporation Loars            20             31             16             39             26
Total Borrowings                                                     76
TOTAL SOURCES              206            277            236            222            2445
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure                          169            183            153            136            136
Income Tax
Debt Service                              /
Amortization of Non Government Loans  /    3               35              3              3             20
Amortization of Government Loans       /    -              -               6              2              2
Interest covered by operating income-    34                59             74             81             87
Total Debt Service                     37             94                                          109
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         206            277            236            222            245
Times Arnual Debt Service Covered by                                                          -
Internal Cash Generation                      17              l.O            1.4            1.7            1.6
Net Internal Cash Generation as a % of                                                                              o
the  capital expenditure                      15%              _            24%            46%            51%  M
r\)
1/   Maturities of non Government loans are only payable from cash generaed by Deprealation.                         $
Maturities in FY 73 in excess of depreciation wIll be financed by the Government.                   r
21'   Shortfalls of operating income leaves arrears of interest of Rse7 million in iY 72 and
s5 miiUion in FY 73.
February 16, 1973



INDTI - Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
Income Statement for Fiscal Years 1970 and 1971 (Actual) and 1972 through 1976 (Forecast)
(In Millions of Rupees except as otherwise stated)
Actuals                             Forecasts
March 31                                            1970      1971          1972       1973      1974       1975       1976
1.   Total Installed Capacity (MW)                                       1220      1365          1475       1681      1654       1874       1874
2.   Maximum Effective Capacity (MW)                                     1116      1155          1326       1569       1569      1777       1977
3.   Simultaneous Peak Demand (MW)                                       1116      1155          1326       1500       1740      2000       2180
4.   Thermal Generation (GWh)                                             220       474           534       1314       1872      1872       2392
5.   Hydro Generation (GWh)                                              2869      3043          3739       3600       3670      3670       3746
6.   Energy Purchased (GWh)                                              2463      2588          2449       2579       3084      4268       4722
7.   Total Energy Generated and Purchased (GWh)                          5552      6105          6722       7493       8626      9810      10860
8.   Losses                                                               978      1047          1265       1280       1466      1572       '737
9.   Sales                                                               4574      5058          5457       6913       7160      8238       9123
10.  Average Revenue per KWh sold - Paise                                 11.5      11.8          i2.3       13-3       13.7      13.1       13.0
Operating Revenue
11.   Sales                                                                526        595          671        825        953       1078      1201
12.a  Government Subsidy re Concessional Tariffs for Industry              -           10           13         10         28         37        38
12.b  Government Subsidy re Rural Electrification                          -           85           87         80         81        106       126
12.c  Miscellaneous                                                         28         15           18         20         23         25        28
13.   Total                                                                554        705          789        935       1085       1246      1393
O erating Expenses
14.  Fuel                                                                   20         32            38        72        100        100       126
15.  Other Expenses                                                        152        214           248       258        276        295       340
16.   Cost of Purchased Power                                              140        143          141        195        236        317       356
17.   Depreciation                                                          99        102          116        133        151        167       181
18.   Total                                                                411       491            543       658        763        879      1003
19.   Operating Income (before Interest)                                   143        214           246       277        322        367       390
20=   Less Current Interest Chargeable to Revenue                          (162)     (177)          83)       (202)     (219)      (235)      (246)
21,   Net Surplus or (Deficit)                                             (19)        3;         _63          75     _  103        132       144
0
22.  Rate Base (adjust,ed to include capitalized interest)                2222       2408          2897      3261       3473       3573      3763
Percentages                                                                                                                                              r 
23.   Rate of Return (19 related to 22)                      %             6.4        8.9           8.5       8.5        9.3       10.3      10.4        I
24.   Interest for Year (20 related to 22)                   %             7.3        7-4           6.3       6.2        6.3        6.6       6.5
25.   Operating Ratio (18 related to 13)                     %              74         70            69         70        70         71         72
February 16, 1973



INDIA - Tarnai Nadu Eleectri eivoad
Statement of Soarce and Application of Funds for Years 1972 Thogj976
at_at rch 31  _        _         1972          1973           1974           197             1976
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal. Cash Generation
21`6          277            322            367             390
Depreciation                               116            133            151            167            181
Total. Internal Cash Generation                      to10          W77              T4
Borroig
State Government Loans                     130            100            190             80             80
Tamil Nadu SEB Bonds                        85            100            150            100            100
Life Insurance Corporation Loans            45             33             40             40             40
Rural Electrification Corporation Loans   20               30             36              37            55
Total Borrowings                      80 
TOTAL SOURCES              642            673            889            791            846
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure                          372            401            626            466            500
Debt Service
Repayment of Non Government Loans I         87             70             44             90            100
Interest covered by operating income       183            202            219            235            246
Total Debt Service          .                                         3
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         642            67389                         7 91           846
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by
Internal Cash Generation                       1.3           1l5             1.8            1.6            1.7
Net Internal Cash Generation as a % of
the  capital expenditure                      25%            34%            33%            45%            45%
1/   Maturities of non Government loans payable only from the cash generated by Depreciation.  No
provision is made for repayment of Government loans.
February 16, 1973



IM   -        E ,,lectric SHUyly Unduertaking (DeLu)
Income Statement for Fiscal Years 1970 to 1971 (Actual) and 19'72 through 1976 (Forecast)
(In Millions of Rupees, except as otherwise stated)
Actual                             Forecast
March 31,                                                     170       1971        1972      1973      1974     1975      1976
1.  Total Installed Capacity (MW)                                       291       284          363       358      353       373       360
2.  Maximum Effective Capacity (MW)                                     207       242          278      273       263       278       265
3.  Simultaneous Peak Demand (MTW)                                      244       268          275       300      330       360      400
4. Thermal Generation (GWh)                                             836      1027         1088     1280      1300      1300     1300
5. Hydro Generation (GWh)                                                 -        -           -          -        -         -         -
6. Energy Purchases (GWh)                                               422       362          420       420      597       838      1122
7.  Total Generated and Purchased (GWh)                                1258      1389         1508     1700      1897      2138      2422
8.  Losses (GWh)                                                         201      230          234       273      292       316       345
9.  Total - Sales (GWh)                                                1057      1159         1274      1427     1605      1822      2077
10.  Average Revenue per KWh sold - Paise                                14.9     15.0         15.2      15.1     15.2      15.3      15.-,
Operating Revenue
11.  Sales of Electricity                                                 157      174          193       216      244       278
12.  Other Operating Revenue                                                9       13           14        16       18        20
13.  Total 'Operating Revenue                                             166      187          207       232      262       298       34-
Operating Expenses
14.  Fuel                                                                  41       51           54        64       65        65        65
15.  Other Costs                                                           54       68           70        70        77       85        9t
16.  Power PTrchases                                                       18       16           19        18        31       49        70
17.  Depreciation                                                          16       17           18        23        26       29        32
18.  Total - Operating Expenses                                           129      152          161       175      199       228       261
19.  Operating Income (Before interest)                                    37       35           46        57       63        70        79
20.  Less Interest on Loans 1                                             (34)      (37)         (30)     (34)      (39)      (44)     (49)
21.  Net Surplus or (Deficit)                                               3        )16                   23       24        26        30
22.  Rate Base                                                            352      377          465       570      659       742       818F
Percentages
23.  Rate of Return (19 related to 22)                                   10.5      9.3         11.2      10.0      9.6       9.4       9.7
24.  Interest for Year (20 related to 22)                   %             9.7      9.8          6.4       6.o       5.9      5.9       6.0
25.  Operating Ratio (18 related to 13)                     %              78       81           75        75       76        77        77
Six percent of average work in progress has been treated as capitalized interest and has been deductled effective from 1972.
October 24,1972



INDIA - Delhi Electicita   Bar
Statement of Sourcea  Al9ation of= Funds for Years 1972 ThrouRh 1976
(In Milli ons of Rupee s
As at March 31                        1972           1973            19714          1975           1976
ORCES OF FUNDS
Intermal Cash Generation
Operating I:ncoe                             52             57             63             70             79
Depreciation                                 18             23             26             29             32
Total Internal Cash Generation          70              0                            99            111
Borrowinxs
GO  Loans                                    148            93             88             84              88
Capital Contributions:
Consumer Contributions                      3              3              4              4              4
TOTAL SOURCES              121             176            181            187            203
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
aiL  Expniue                                   714           115            111            110             110
Income Tax                                      6              9                             8             12
Debt Service
son  GOI Loans ./                            30             34             39             44             49
Repayment of Principal                       11             18             23             25              32
Total Debt Service                     T9
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         121            176             181            187            203
Times Annual Debt Service Covered by
Internal Cash Generation                        1.7            1.5            1.14           1.4             1.14
Net Internal Cash Generation as a % of'
the  capital expenditure                        31           17              17             20             16
1/ Interest has been capitalized at 6% of average work in progress.
February 16, 1973



INDIA - Tata Hydro-Electric Power Supply Company Limited
Andhra Valley Power Supply Company Limited
Tata Power Company Limited
Consolidated Income Statement for Fiscal Years through 1976 - 77
(In Millions of Rupees, except as otherwise stated)
March 31                                                          Actual                            Forecast
1971     1972        1973     1974      1975     1976      1977
1.   Total Installed Capacity (MW)                                                    613.5    613.5       613.5    613.5    613.5    613.5    613.5
2.   Maximum Effective Capacity (MW)                                                  613.5    613.5       613.5    613.5    613.5    613.5    613.5
3.   Simultaneous Peak Demand (MW)                                                    838.1    876.1       910       995    1,080    1,165    1,245
4.   Thermal Generation (NKWH)                                                      1,764    1,930       2,119    1,900    1,900    1,900-   1,900
5.   Hydro Generation (MKWH)                                                        1,301    1,595       1,113    1,150    1,300    1,300    1,300
6.  Energy Purchased (MKWH)                                                         2.484    2.485       2.693    3.479    3          4,334    4j828
7.   Total Generated and Purchased (MKWH)                                           5,549    6,010       5,925    6,529    7,069    7,534    8,028
8.  Losses and consumption by station auxiliaries (MKWH)                              298       331        329       359      389       414       441
9.   Total - Sales (MKWH)                                                           5,251    5,679       5,596    6,170    6,680    7,120    7,587
10. Average Revenue per KWH sold (Paise)                                                7.63      7.71       8.35      9.14      9.11     8.91      8.83
Operating Revenue
11.  Sales                                                                            395.4    437.7       467.1    564.2    608.5    634.4    669.8
12.  Miscellaneous                                                                      7.6       9.8        8.1       7.8       7.9      8.0       8.1
13.  Total - Operating Revenue                                                        403,0    447.5       475.2    572.0    616.4    642.4    677.9
Operating Expenses
14.  Fuel                                                                              73.8      90.1      101.9      91.5      91.5     91.5      91.5
15.  Other Expenses                                                                   110.7    132.5       134.5    153.2    165.6    156.3    157.0
16.  Power Purchases                                                                  145.9    148.6       173.2    249.9    278.0    311.4    346.9
17. Depreciation                                                                       19.9      20.5       21.7      22.5      23.9     25.1      26.0
18.  Total - Operating Expenses                                                       -350.3    391.7      431.3    517.1    559.0    584.3    621.4
19.  Operating Income  (before interest)                                               52.7      55.8       43.9      54.9      57,4     58.1      56.5
20.  Less Interest on Loans                                                            21.8      23.3       24.8      27.6      28.5     29.6      29.3          ( 
21.  Less Dividends                                                                    17, 1     18.2        18.2     18,2      18.2     18_2        _ 2
22.  Net Surplus                                                                       flW       14.3         0.9      9.1      10,7     10.3       9.0          0 ~
23.  Average Rate Base                                                                648       662        667       678       698      703       700            X
24.  Rate of Return (19 related to 23)  %                                               8.1       8.4         6.5      8.1       8.2      8.3       8.1          O
25.  Interest & Dividends chargeable to Revenue as percentage
of rate base (%)                                                          6.0       6.3        6.4       6.7      6.7       6.8       6.8
26.  Operating Ratio (18 related to 13) %                                              87        88          91       90        91       91        92
January 15, 1973



INDIA - Tt  HyoElectric Power Supply Company Limited
Andhra Valley Power Supply CoTmpany Limited
Tata Power Company Limited
Consolidated Statement showing the Sources and Application of Funds
(In Millions of Rupees, except as otherwise stated)
March 31.                                                                        Actual                               Forecast
1971     1972          1973      1974     1975      1976      1977
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.   Operations:
a)  Operating Income (before interest)                                       52.7      55.8         43.9      54.9      57.4      58.1      56.5
b)  Depreciation                                                             19.9      20.5         21.7      22.5      23.9      25.1      26.0
c)  Write-off of Miscellaneous  expenditure                                   7,4       2.8         10.4      10.8      11.2       5.1       3.2
2.   Borowngst
a)  Long-term Loans                                                           -         -            -        90.0       -         -         -
b)  Cash Credits with Banks                                                  13.6      11,3         12.9       -        28.7       1.1       -
c)  Unsecured Loans                                                           1.5       5.0          2.0       -         -         6.9       1.2
TOTAL SOURCES                       95.1      95,4         90.9    178.2    121,2        96.3      86.9              X
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
1.   Capital Expenditure                                                          38.1      31.2          22.2     45.9      38.9      25.5      18.3            a
2.   Debt Service                                                                   .Q
a)  Interest                                                                 21.8      23.3         24.8      27.6      28.5      33.6      33.3
b)  Repayment of loans                                                       20.7      16.2         25.2      26.2      27.0      12.4       8.0
c)  Repayment of Cash Credits                                                 -         -            -        25.2       -         -         -
3.   Dividends                                                                    17.1      18,2         18.2      18.2      18.2      18.2      18.2
4.   Increase or (decrease) in Working Capital                                     (2.6)     6,5           0.5      35.1       8.6      6.6        9.1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                  95.1      95,4         90,9    178.2    121.2        96,3      86.6
January 15, 1973



ANNEX 12
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                              Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                 at end of Quarter
(Thousand US$)
1973/74
June 1974                                     1,000
1974/75
September 1974                                4,000
December 1974                                16,000
March 1975                                    24,000
June 1975                                    32,000
1975/76
September 1975                               38,500
December 1975                                 50,500
March 1976                                    65,500
June 1976                                    72,500
1976/77
September 1976                               79,500
December 1976                                 82,500
March 1977                                    84,500
June 1977                                    85,000



I



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION III PROJECT
The Organization of and Interaction Between
Agencies in the Indian Power Sector
1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROBLEMS
1.1       The number of organizations directly or indirectly involved at both
the policy-making and operational levels, renders the organizational struc-
ture of the power sector in India cumbersome and complex. This institutional
complexity can be attributed to:
(i) conceptual weaknesses in constitutional provisions with
respect to (a) the manner in which responsibility is
divided between the Central and the State governments
for the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity and consequently, (b) the nature, role and
number of institutions required (or thought desirable)
for the rational development of the sector as a whole;
(ii) deviations from the intentions of extant constitutional
provisions in the way institutions have developed -
which has had a qualitative detrimental impact on policy
and operational decision-making within and between institu-
tions.
The Constitutional Aspect
1.2       With respect to point (i) above, the manner in which responsibility
is divided between Center and States derives from the constitutional status
of "electricity" as a "concurrent subject" (i.e., within the jurisdiction
of both Central and State governments). The Constitution is not specific
as to whether the responsibility for any or all of the processes of generation,
transmission or distribution of electricity, is concurrent. The Electricity
Supply Act of 1948 (amended to 1969) however, bestows primary responsibility
for generation, transmission and distribution on the States, and makes the
Center primarily responsible for national power policy and for coordination
of the programs of individual States, Institutional and processual complexity
is therefore inevitable since policy plans and implementation have to be
articulated between several agencies at two intervening levels of government.
1.3       To alleviate these problems, it is generally recognized that
ideally the Center should be endowed with responsibility for generation and
transmission and the bulk supply of electricity to the States. The States
would then be responsible for distribution. Although this would not violate
the constitutional status of electricity as a concurrent subject (it
would simply be a more specific division of responsibilities), it would



ANNEX 13
Page 2
require the Electricity Supply Act to be rewritten, and more importantly,
would require States to concede control of a massive investment and
spending sector to the Center.  It would be clearly unrealistic to expect
such changes to be achieved over the foreseeable future.
The Role of Central Government Agencies
1.4       Currently, at the uppermost inter-sectoral policy making level,
several agencies influence the resource allocation and utilization decisions
affecting the power sector. These include the Ministry of Finance and the
Planning Commission which attempt to reconcile the needs of the power sector
with those of other sectors; the Ministry of Industry and Supply which
greatly influences the capital investment programs of the power sector;
the Ministry of Irrigation and Power which represents the sector itself;
the Department of Atomic Energy which, although involved in the power sector,
remains an autonomous agency with probably more leverage at the Center than
the Ministry of Irrigation and Power; and the Ministry of Mines and Metals
which influences the overall availability and application of fuel resources.
At this level, the power sector as a whole does not seem to have representa-
tion commensurate with its importance or size as the largest single invest-
ment absorbing sector in India.
1.5       At the intra-sectoral level of national planning and coordination,
constitutional provisions (in the Electricity Supply Act) envisaged a central
Authority (CEA) responsible for the development of national power plans
and coordination of the utilization of power resources. Currently, for all
practical purposes the CEA is a non-functioning entity except for a minor role
as arbitrator. It is the Power Wing of the Central Water and Power Commission
(CWPC) which discharges the planning and coordination functions. Its
effectiveness in this capacity is constrained by an important limitation
which does not bind the-CEA.  The CWPC is simply a technical advisory
subordinate agency of the Ministry of Irrigation and Power. It has no
independent statutory status (as does the CEA), and no legal powers to direct
or control, or to carry out investigations. To achieve its objectives it
relies solely upon its powers of "persuasion."
The Role of State Electricity Boards
1.6       At the operational and state level, the E. S. Act provides for making
an SEB responsible for developing the generation, supply and distribution of
power within each State. The SEBs were intended to be operationally autono-
mous but dependent on State governments for guidance on "policy" matters.
In fact, SEBs possess little autonomy. They have difficulty in viewing
themselves as separate entities; for all practical purposes they still
function largely as state government departments as evidenced by the selection
and promotion of personnel at senior and intermediate administrative and
technical echelons, their attitudes towards their finances and the manner
in which they conduct their investment planning process.



MNNEX 13
Page 3
1.7       The development and utilization of power resources on a national
scale is generally recognized as being suboptimal.  This is attributable to
(i) the dominance of the parochial state perspective in governing the
development of generation and major transmission facilities, when the
individual state is too small a unit upon which investment decisions of this
nature can be based (ii) the relative lack of authority to instigate or
take direct action on the part of the CWPC-Power Wing (iii) major policy
conflicts at central policy making level without any adequate mechanism for
arbitration or speedy resolution of these conflicts.
1.8       A major conceptual weakness in the E. S. Act is that although
it intended the creation of operationally autonomous and viable SEBs as
entities distinct from state governments, it subverted this intention by the
financial provisions stipulated. These provisions render it difficult for
SEBs to function as entities distinct from state governments.
Regional Electricity Boards
1.9       At some time in the future, Regional Electricity Boards (REBs)
may emerge as effective functional entities. Five REDs were set up
between 1964-66. They have not as yet proved to be effective, largely
because they are voluntary associations between member SEBs, performing
an advisory role. They have no statutory recognition and depend entirely
on the actions of individual SEBs for the acceptance of their recommendations.
Some tangible incremental progress towards simple coordination of SEB
operations on a regional basis is being made by the Southern and Northern
REBs. The attainment of integrated regional operations is currently among
the CWPC's higher priorities. The setting up of effective REBs and
integration of operations on a regional basis are necessarily long-term
objectives, but as long as they are held in view, the necessary incremental
steps toward achieving them become more readily identifiable.
The Re-activation of the Central Electricity Authority
1.10      To guide the development of the power sector in a rational manner
the principal agency at the center (currently the CWPC) requires greater
powers for more effective direction and coordination. Although various
committee reports present dissenting opinions on the issue, the only short-
term option within the confines of the E. S. Act is the reactivation and
full constitution of the CEA to discharge the functions it was created for.
1.11      The issue of re-activating the CEA, and establishing the CWPC-
Power Wing as its administrative organiztion was broached by the Bank as
early as 1965. The Indian authorities had then advised that changes were
imminent. Since then a succession of committees, recognizing the obvious
necessity for this action have raised the question in 1967, in 1969 and
again in 1971. To date nothing has been done by the Indian authorities
toward reinstating the CEA with the powers vested in it by the Electricity
Supply Act.



ANNEX l3
Page 4
1.12      The re-activation of the CEA is a vital step toward more coherent
development of the sector. Furthermore it is not impeded by legislative
provisions - in fact, it would correct a fundamental deviation from the
letter and intent of the Act. As the CWPC has an adminstratively autonomous
Power Wing secretariat, the change could be effected with minimum administra-
tive effort. It has no direct costs associated with it and could be accommo-
dated without encountering the problems of discontinuity which arise with
the creation of a new agency.
2. PROBLEMS OF INTERACTION BETWEEN AGENCIES
2.1       The character of extant agencies at center and state levels
influences the nature and intensity of interaction required for the organized
and rational development of the Indian power sector. Whereas interaction
was originally intended to be concentrated between CEA and individual SEB's,
the current situation is characterized by the involvement of several agencies
at various levels.
2.2       Center-state interaction occurs in several processes which directly
affect power sector development. These include: load forecasting; establish-
ing the feasibility and viability of capital projects; determining the avail-
ability of capital resources and foreign exchange for executing sanctioned
projects; and obtaining clearances for procuring capital equipment.
oad Forecasting
2.3       The primary responsibility for load forecasting rests with the
SEBs. Recently some serious doubts have been raised at the Center, about
the reliability of these forecasts and their usefulness as a basis for invest-
ment planning. Individual SEB load forecasts are reviewed by the CWPC and
serve as inputs to the annual power surveys. At this stage interaction
occurs primarily between the CWPC and SEB and to some extent involves the
power survey committee which includes members from the Department of Atomic
Energy, the Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of Industry and Supply. A recent controversy over the basic assumptions
made and the methodology employed in load forecasting reflect weaknesses
in both aspects which require rectifying. Considering the sheer size of
capital investment involved, efforts spent in improving the quality of fore-
casts at central and state levels may be worthwhile.
Developing Plans and Acquiring Resources for Investment Programs
2.4       In developing schemes for capital investment in generation and
transmission facilities, the onus is upon the SEB to propose and the CWPC
to dispose. However, the CWPC has very limited powers in directing or
controlling state capital investment. It is at this stage that the estab-
lishment of a comprehensive national plan, and its use for guiding indivi-
dual projects proposed by States would prove most beneficial. The CWPC



ANNEX 13
Page 5
does apply some criteria to the plans it rev:Lews in order to teconcile them
to some degree with broad national considerations. Nonetheless the manner
in which capital expansion has been sanctioned so far, indicates that it is
still the limited State-wide perspective which predominates in the growth of
the power sector, rather than the requirements of a national plan.
2.5       The question of capital availability for sanctioned projects and
schemes reveals another weakness in the institutional set-up of the sector.
Neither of the principal agencies involved - i.e., the CWPC or SEB - has
any direct influence or control over securing adequate resources for capital
expenditure. The SEB's ability to raise resources is largely contingent
upon the state government's capacity to provide a large part of the funds.
The Indian system of federal financing renders the state vulnerable to the
resource allocation decisions made by the center.  It is the Finance Commi-
ssion at the Center, together with the Planning Commission who are the
ultimate arbiters of resource availability with respect to plan and non-
plan expenditures. The CWPC and SEBs provide the inputs for capital
requirements to their respective ministries at central and state levels, but
they play very little part in the bargaining for aggregated resources.
Procurement
2.6       The procedures involved in the procurement of equipment, whether
domestically manufactured or imported, constitute a significant problem area
in center-state interactions. The source of the problem is central govern-
ment policy which is based upon two related considerations - (i) the maximum
promotion of indigenous manufacture and (ii) the absolute minimization of
imports in order to reduce technical dependence and conserve foreign exchange.
The chief implementor of this policy is the Directorate-General of Technical
Development (DGTD) - a subordinate agency of the Ministry of Industry and
Supply. Regarding procurement problems with the center, the SEBs deal with
the DGTD entirely through the CWPC. Cases involving equipment import
generally require processing and clearance by the DGTD, after which the
CWPC recommends that the Ministry of Irrigation and Power approach the
Ministry of Finance for the allocation of requisite foreign exchange.
The Ministry of Finance undertakes its own involved procedures for finding
the foreign exchange which is released to the SEB through the Ministry of
Irrigation and Power. Upon release of the exchange the SEB applies to the
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports through the CWPC for an import
license. It is only after the import license is issued that the SEB can
place the order. In some cases the entire procedure has taken up to 2-1/2
years, by which time costs have spiralled and the SEB has had to go through
the entire process again to secure the additional foreign funds. In such
cases costs of equipment have often risen by between 30-75%.
2.7       The intervention of the CWPC in dealing with the 'Iinistry of
Industry and Supply is often sought by the SEBs in the procurement of
domestically manufactured heavy equipment, the production of which is below
installed capacity and delivery dates are often extended.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
2.8       It is apparent that SEBs view the role of CWPC as that of a
valuable intercessor between themselves and central government agencies,
rather than as a filter in the direct channel of communication. Several
SEBs have expressed the view that without the assistance of the CWPC,
action by other agencies would be slower and involve greater procedural
delays than is presently the case.
2.9       The CWPC by virtue of its nature as a subordinate advisory agency
does not have any leverage in negotiating with the Ministry of Industry and
Supply to alleviate the problem. Currently no arbitrating agency exists
which can speedily resolve major policy conflicts between sectors. Where
such conflicts involve even single items of equipment, the matter has to
be carried to the Cabinet for resolution. The time delays inherent in
this procedure have a detrimental impact on the development of the power
sector. A reactivated CEA could, with extended powers, serve as arbitrator
for procurement issues.
2.10      The growth rate and demands in the power sector will impose
critical strains on the current institutional set up. There is a need for
deeper understanding of how resource allocation decisions regarding the
power sector are made and the limitations or constraints place on the role
of representatives of the power sector in making this decision. There is
also a need for examining major policies and policy conflicts which affect
the power sector, e.g., the classic conflict between nuturing domestic
industrial development and rapid power sector development, so that appropriate
short-term measures can be suggested which do not necessarily conflict with
longer-term objectives of either sector.
December 13, 1972



BR D-2833R
SEPTEMBER 1972
,"              ~~~~~~-'.
I NDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION -THIRD PROJECT
JAMMU AND KASHMIR                                                           REGIONAL POWER BOARDS
RI,*   DlAGAR     LE          g
i  ,   _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~?                                         X~~~~     MAJOR CITIES
,-2             *                                                  *        MAJOR SUESTATIONS
-'5 HIMACHAL PRADES1H0                                                                  REGIONAL EOUNDARIES
+                  + AMhl~ETISAC   Dehar                                                       ___            STATE OR UNION
PUNJAB                                                                                   ------                        0 Al
z                      #~~\~ 1AmrdtarE(       r        \                                             - -            NTERSATIOSAL BOUNDARIES
,J\N    OC Sh-Adi -                                                                                  Th  E 3 0 I0S 140
\ _<,~~~~~~*Ehains 8AosL'eofl                                               ,          "NA                        MILES >
,   /                                              - A~ia Pavulipat Nerr=t                                                                                       5 '\ et ) ;t > q>l,Si 
/  V~~~-?R~~~-~~  000G0 ~~be1i)
HARYANA-O-'              f   GAL IO   )          L   N                                                                                                      1        ( *\
\OGADGE .                                                                                                                                            lEJEAR PR ADDSH
RAJASTHAN ANEAR                                                                                                                                 ZEAG MAGR
D(aanBrd        SOIDOREL                                                                   OGEATSSKBDPU0               00500   ,%  *al u tt L     YEGALcVTA     'N 
\DhCRAUD ghAvnaR:r R *                                                              * SItpura  (                      (ISEAA71R t1ST
E.AEAD                          I~~~ -_f ,BANGLADESH                   s'
GhpMADHYA PRADESE  fS M             A                                                                                     * 5ACCA
BHOPAL                                   -.~~~~~EGCaB    ?..WEST BENGAL'~\                              (         -
D.                   "IE            h        ai  s-.                                                                  ;c7 GBm
BOkAAAY oi0/aEr    *R9
DEE      -ik5
Usohay         An ramUhaE                            C
*E0y00                     /          *flTda~o                                             _____             ISAY
Sholapl_{   c    YD.RRABA  G
\ 1 ( '~~~~~~~~E.N6AL 
\  \t                (    ~~~ANDHRA  PRADI
GOA %,   /                     \         | | |           <                                   DEMARCAtION Cf TIEE COUNTRY INTO VARIOUS REGION$
kBELGAGK   }                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i NORTidERN REGION
KARNATAKA                                                                                         P-550 t dT KDYSI .fpARJ, Ho  so,  Rajo*hn, UIIRs
A,odeoh, DOMI, HT-Iis 1, PSOdRA
ARABIAN                                                                                                               I I Coddspah  N  11 WESTERN REG;ONoREGIO
\   ~ ~ ~ nX      /&                                         Gsinrur, ~~~~~~~~~~Modhy. Ptcdith, Mtha.-ihtA
SSA  \  UAXGAA1AO  BABGALORB                                                II7 SOUTHERSN REGION
ADdhto fEodRsAh, KR,-I., M=dt, KcrRootko (Myse) R
L.)*;  TAMIL NADU  t  ADRAS                               iV EASTERN REGiON
V NORTHEASTERN REGION
C01B-. Tr~
A-0RDI/1 P10d00,1
M,    ADURAI            tX
\ 5 2 9 R j I L *&,,N K  A^                                                                        lhe b-ad,ilt MRn    o IAw. dis  -
;E --   .O lAS 50,0 SUP 0 /01






BRD 3023
'5                   J A AMMU  AND   K ASH MIR
F~~~~~~~~~~ -   ........  , <LK                                                               T SALAL CHINRNif  > 
PHARYANA    > HIMACHAL PEADESH                                                pRWAH
JAMMI                           N.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
HiA177%6                                                            RXl               UL                         "'i'  /                                       POWER TRANSMISSION ]I[ PROJECT
>t                                                                      VANG NOD  A P R A   INDARNEAAR                                                         Northern  Regional Grid
IN  D2    A
TAMR.IAAN  0JA   4'UR(RI)L        DHA
TARN 3AA3 V  B-" iBI33PJB   A /                         ~~       ~~       ~    ~ ~~           ~~~~~~~~~C  H  I  N  A
4    3332303K        .<wNtsxI$                       SSr--H                                I        N          A                                                   DELHI AREA
IT AREA:                                 7 IROZPS                                                . m)      -                      ( T  i b  e TA   T LO PAN IP
,,D-.      ADRI v   S   GAN  RA~A   /~r       EA / < c_- ,fMUN A I
________________                    I                      / PC.R              .0   0          \a X DR     Al JADAG I /            HAAP               HRl'    :E                                                                       FROM PAR  A  _ 3
N        t0-TS3R      P U N  J/  ~~~~~~~~~~B   AMAD                 N1JKONEPAT
>  3$-2Lt~~~~ ~$t.                     \~DEHRA'DUNN
GANGANrTk            AR 1I                                                                               U          A        ; IHATINDA-  AP  O A   THRIA
333t P H U L e RAN I -U I- 92 HARATPLIRX      H I K  O H  A  3         NAII \K K  RAMGAN A JP  AAHAHGA              Jp 
0                                 30                                                                          J   NA AD UGARHRA AOR -A   I lRGA N                                                                           o     i  ,G R  TSING  EXON5  3.313 030
loo _200+jEAWA3                                                                           I        OMABO-ASA         30 3,                 .                   /
I   K                                                    R AJ-A R D   3 ;- -  - -  - - - - - -A   AORER Y A A            O  >S                                                                                                     TNXE X T N 'V 5   1 M   s
ED NAR      O         RA,a ) < S/ALW    EHTRORT
30-33    -                   A\                                                                                                                                    AI AA
J,,A OLA ~ ~ ~ ~~3A                    A/NA   "                                   /-RM33
|   G    U    J    A    R   A    T   Z    tw               \ M    A       D      H /Y0333    A TPT             R     PA       AD    E       S    H~'                       f                                     0--31337               2BALL300AR
Al                                                                                  / /          J         ADRAJMAIN S -R-Internationol /oundA
RAJGARHLBHIWAN            AA         MEER0T3R3 3
N..)                                          I1A          Nt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOlUT NOW%     SCHWA,NRAAI ARPUR3
CHA                                                                    AN3C
BIKANREA.ERRI                                                        AWALDRA             EILLYKDO   "A                                                                       A      yr pwrstto
I                                                            AWOt 0    PUB                            033       0303333    X                33330333          MA   N  .            -                Therma Rower sDatio
NIRI ~~HETP               RDUAGAN I          SHAHJAFANEPUR\                       BANR                             4          C     NoeaRwrstin
()  LAKOERI  I      2t  3033                                            \  ~~~~~~~~~OHAZi                             0    Die station   FM HI
JAWA ARSADAR ~~~ 3073 bN2R33   5   THR     TAH,                         R                                    L CRI                         43AKHTRemisin Ho
N,IJKA    F                         'i23 ALRANAIP              31
RANIN MAINP                                                                                                  -        22   V  rasoso  ln
PP  A               6 MTAAA                             -,JPL                                    H     R--  -                      22RSTrnmiso  ln (/Nn  Ktoes
rRNA00R              A          s              H                N12  VTrnmisinlie(SCo ALtwes
GU  I    A    R    AT                                                                                                                                                   '-6'        -~~~~~~~~~~BAWR    SGNP I  Al    State Kou-rdar,
rE'  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR                            W                                                     HT.- .  Lt
a,                                                                                                                                     -. -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~,FAW  2 Ineraioa boundaryE






1,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J'  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    OD9 
A 4                                                                                                                            p'-t N  PA 
)ARAOOR=ORRRU T                                                                                                                                                         T T A A R            P R A  D  E S H
)0$/ ,--        2R  A  J  A  S  T  H  A  NOWA2-R
A     f                                                                           3h LWAhA    hOTA S \'A- R\\   t                         | r28AAS_JA
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                                       SI Ph99 JE    I.RA5'AA H R A A p C A t  U       O i       t b z
_  'I-,   ,    eT    >    <    4                                EA-hlMtAHER:%,%pCTSERAR                   I                                      AIB 
-ARI.E-]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    RE                                                 '
4 R  PP                      '~~~~~~~~~e 
.t 0                              S3DHAPURt             X                      z\\h NU      5        t    \                         < 2                            fUPF                         RIHANDDAIPU  RA  MTAfl-
~~~       Vt~~~~~~~~~1r>  "'                     _                A                                                                  14944                                               B  I  H  A  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-7IH   
_-                  SARARMAV -~1                                 2          AO M~  A   U   H   Y  A  R                                           -A$t D    E   S ''H  >
KANDLA_                              vo        /tlA               %     BALM            \JI                        BSPL\                                  //                                                                                            ES
PAq - A-                                                                           < -R'                                       '       -                           N  A   N A AR       " 3
P O R B A N D A R/           tAV>~~0019,24AG             ,oUt;        /'k                         NU R                                       -.                       9>- S A TU R     31    A   P'V I S                 A  AI A.
--91\  -IM/                      A   9 _                                   CO r A lu^;                   .                                                       VS    E D H, U   
S444  e GA Hi,o    -,A2    9000                                                       /5U VRAt1DA                                                                                                                                   2
FAI904AA                                                                                                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KOREA  K>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RHAII
9 AVAGR   RAC2E                                            S    HA     T     R                                                                                   >2 /       A A                     2 .nA I I <   ;tDGA 
BCR909   SAPR               E          / 4QRCA994A       PAR--- //                                                                                                                                                     992 20 1J,0    2-'-'. A etr eilGi
G   u    i   A  A'    ~  ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ IWAX'~~~~~~~0EFCF 
94/0900000'  /          AUARNAI0 \                                                    EELH -HSA                                         A             PA \      R2 0        D5,         E/
BARCOL                                                  A \ CA            FAAT' / L   -' Therm    o       l pwEST
_  11   = <~~  ~~.   i   |          i     hOIrAPIR |    **/;H!EsaV<           144000         AA   N9RCH   R2 VA P12                          R4                                                     ulr      e  tto
. APrlAr   t Y    i  '   XHOPOL                  R~~~AF                                                PIERASAR          A                                                                               --=A  2  1/AANC                        onDW      es
w,  SJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   SB, PRBNA
~~< -           1l   \HIP4              H9200 VADAENA   <FVAT.KA              0.21, EMN Y    SC OA R         E       2                 A2AOR SGI0ZC                     /l            J>           - -1012K   .nr15o
APIAa  ojoQ  <         H    A    D9999    214      MOi         HJ B_AU    R    A- S                     RK' lon,9 /t1                                                            >''T r .                                                      0  5.....12VT'xs sinm (    nD 
TO~~~~~~9                                                                  HG  TA  /                     3     i      Th   ~ to               Kt                                                    j   i RJC HW IN RDIA
IAI                                                                                    .1AAA    RILHI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F, 21 9  I
PORBANDAR                                                                                                                                                             A          II IIA IA II-Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,-'   XSE-C  NERKNSRCTO-  RPOE
A  a    i a  n                                                    HAI I                           u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ,'
K.AEECJO9 Al,                                                                                                                                0      Rols  00919090
OATEERANAOARK  ~ ~ ~ ~~1 1,L                      R A____
a a  TARAIPU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   214  9ERFR 99  009000RR
PAWL<~                             HI R,s-00A, H90I                                                                                       AXTF2KToRs,9II/oDO0RR
RHFRo  ~~~~~~~                 'BIVLJ             AH  -_------                                                                                                          -   -'-OWER '  HoANSMISIONEI9PROJEC
11.:J~~IAY'A'RIAFFTR4M0                     H29        POL,                                                     NWo -VesternE  Region                                                                                        al ,n    Griodo
~~C4FRCA100              04990, I'  pLATLIA                                      LA049--    99990200
910r09199  <9                                                                                                I                                            P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XSlN    UCE    CSRO.RTOE SH ROOWN NERD






IBRD 383; -
(Nt'                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER 9?7?<
INDIA                                                                                                                                                     R      I            S      A
:POWER TRANSMISSION III PROJECT                                                       V.                                                        /
S$outhern Regional Grid                                                                                                                     DY
RADF-$ANEGRRI ~ ~  ~              ~             ~            ~            ~            ~            RAES
CANEVALI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~WPLNA
~~~~~~NABAD ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~        C          RH              MATR ~ T
0 TANDUR  NALGONDA~a/TIER                                                              SHRAU           '          SWST            E~
KOLHAPUR  11.                                                  R_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.PACTA
ATPRABHA MA  I                                                                                  K T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  A  P0T 
MUYAR
Arabian                         -   :BH~~~~~~~~~GOADRK                             R~HRA  NDl PAIA                 P RENIA     NTDAC                                                                  PYKARA          YRPD
\    IL         KAN\KSPLRA
EAA AC,DA     N        MANDTAX                                                                                                    ZHAAODEu                          TTUPPANLR   PUIYMPRATT
0  30  JOE~~~~~~~~~~A/                                 0                                                                     NO
Eitor~~~~~~~~~rptsmn ~ ~ ~      ~           ~          ~           N
D     AA  C> 'NP7ERES
JOG               ATAKA                      EEYAGIN                                                           ---                    6Taurtpinm
TA    HADRksPOM  REKA -                                                                                                                      I -
A JRAL  t1N                              ir*emo,ep I- ?     AQIfO.roIfat
S  WPPTEEEAAEAAES5A.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JJE* "Es~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~






GANDA  1"'      F                                             ISIKK IM N
Y>  \                                  RAXAUL E P AL   .    LDHHA   U T A N
GA ILI SI.A,,)-
AAADHUBANI"~~~~~~~~~~'~~'                    _,,~~~BC)NGAIGAON
U  T  T A   R    P R A  D  E S  H                   \              MUZHJBARI /  SAHARSA            )     :           IPD          A    S       S
\  \     \\   /          ~ ~~~~~~~~O_ \ DAUK.Llw,                      z ;       1
SAMASTIPUR            LKOLAS   '
PURNEA
-/      -ARRAH  PATNA \\..'                                        
MIUGHAL SARAI   -/   O DUMRAON     11    BARUNI                     O                                  M   E  G   H  A   L  A  Y  A
s f.KARAMNASA I   JAMANAAAL BIHARSA     _       -            S     ADA.
A4    Sa             f          |~~~~~~~~~                      ~          ~~~~~~~B   "O                   Th  KEUIA    J   l h, "W" ",Tn a6 c  {bp
K1v                    0DEHRI                                                                         It /  F ARAKKAt    S I 411Th
.   /FBARUN  : GAYA                               Er3H~~~~   ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ULIAN.
TO RlHA<tSonolptl   E/\z\ j   CHAN~XDRAPRMA  DEOGHAR     )1\ ATHGANJ                            F.        LO
TOl RIHAN                              CHANDRAPL,RA 
GARWA                  TILAIYA    IRIDIH    RANIGANJJS   /
HAIA                             m MAV(H    GOKARNA
LATE AR   OE  AH                        HIN
MADHYA   PRAD ESH                                       RAIRASAA /S *DAMBUGR   OS UA                                                        9OIS
/RHAJRAJNAG R                 RA__ _  GHAT
RAIGCIIRANGP GAS H                                                        Z N +                     \\{ XI  PROJECT AREA W1
BSRGARH  \ S/            X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIA
J RAR  HIRAKUD 11\          f 
ou    NDOP R R    I   SJ>UINDIA
J BALANGIR  KNAGPOWER TRANSMISSION                       B PROJECT
MADHYA  PRADE SINGA                   RAJKHAR    UBWANESastern   Regional  Grid
~~~w_ t_                  /             /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING  UNDER CONSTRUCTIO-N /PROPOSED
>>1   '             /- c?  -fv                                     * ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ A    1-ydro power stratton
INOSAVATI A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UT .                                                            RJETAE
44 INDRAVATIA     O>                                               F          o~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Thermal power stotion
.RGANGMARH
_   A         BERHARPUR H                                                              O    Sub stRtion
H   PEAVLI/
TaPAGAD                                            <                                              X B a  TA  220 KV Transmission line
IJ///BAYPUR                             80y                                                         / 132 KV TrAnsmission line
TO RODAGHAT /                                                       ofSCAKDA   / j..                                       132 KV Transmission line (S/C on D/C towers)
(AIILj                                                                                            ----S-   - ARVII  -1    en ga     .   .  66 KV Transmission line  2
ALlMIL~~~~~~  LALAGI
/EfSING GAZUVAK<OJ4A     KHLJ|   0  50Elooaxoo                                            Eastern Regional Grid Boundary
y,  r    ~.GAZUPPERA                                   SI    L      L      V SIMM   |           K      ;I OV S     -   State boundaries
A N D H R A   P R A D E S H    zJsh#hepetnom}                                           PROJECT SHOW2N IN R;D    -*-International boundary






INDIA
POWER TRANSMISSION 1m PROJECTS                                                                                         c H I N A
North Eastern Regional Grid   SJ
C   H  I N  A                                                                D                
(T Ib e)
C,          ~~~~~DIBRUGARH  NIJKHAAI
BANGIA NARANGI  SAMGURI  /    NAZIR
B     H       U      T    A      N      .                        A  ,    NAZALAND
_RTEZ   PUR >
~~- -    *~~~~~~~*_rrJ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~           GVOLAGHAT ~~~~~~~~~~~B          U        R       M        A
W E S T                                                                       / BONGAIGAON  RANGIAS/PROPOSED
AL T.,oIPUlUAR  AM  AN S                                             PU R                                        Hd peALANr t
*J  R- oU1S    ~~        q         X \?FUMT1{R                     5 \  KOHIMA       { 
ZZ         UMIASIIUM,  1    UIAMP PH.I           /  1
Se~,.-e Ll                           DHANANANGALBIBRA    SHLL6NG  G
M  EG  HA  L AY                            K  HIHI  OPIL                       0 \0           10             200             300
/   CHERRAPUNJI     \                                                                                    _  \I
,   _   ,/*,_   o   tv     (         \                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kilometers
_>   DARPUR  /        {IMPHAL 
/IA~               h SLOKTAK ,fEXISTING   UNDER CONSTRUCTION/PROPOSED
_   A  _                           >  1       / \  ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ANI  p U R      A *                Hydro power station
AC P 6..f-F7, l"                         SL   HRAAGAR 
-            ~~~~Thermal power station
7     JR 'JoAL                                        ;                  Sub station
ASSAPA             A * ML                                                                       220 KV Transmission line
* < J TAMARPUR                                                                 132 KV Transmission line
\ I N   D  I A                                                                   ,J,0N ltlGUMTI { > > * j . . * - 66 KV Transmission line
s            S~~~~~WEST BENGAL     \     i        ; 
]            Iz -- tz   h   }                     North Eastern Regional Grid
1 .  ~- \ . .. N                                  Boundary
\ - ,    ---State or Union  Territory
Boundaries 
X  g  PROJECT AREA [IhZ                                        I  I'h. darils sil,, /l I.,/ [1.1D m.lp dt, 11ol  International boundary  UJI
PROJECT SHOWN IN RED            04



