CONFORMED COPY
S
CREDIT NUMBER 377 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 377 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h); and
(c)   paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The Term "Borrower" means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "State" means any of the following six States of India: Kerala, Madhya
Pradesh, Mysore, Orissa, Assam and Tamil Nadu;
(b)   "Electricity (Supply) Act" means the Borrower's Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, as amended;
(c)   "Board" means (i) any of the State Electricity Boards established
pursuant to the Electricity (Supply) Act in one of the States, (ii) the Delhi
Electricity Supply Undertaking, and (iii) the Beas Construction Board, and "Boards"


﻿4
means (except where otherwise indicated) all of such Boards, the Delhi Electricity
Supply Undertaking and the Beas Construction Board;
(d)   "Southern Regional Board" means the Southern Regional Electricity
Board of the Borrower set up by Resolution No. EL-II-35(1)/63 of February 7,
1964;
(e)   "Northern Regional Board" means the Northern Regional Electricity
Board of the Borrower set up by Resolution No. EL-II-35(3)/63 of February 13,
1964;
(f)   "Company" means the Tata Power Company, Ltd.;
(g)   "Loan Agreement 416-IN" means the Loan Agreement (Power
Transmission Project) between the Borrower and the Bank, dated June 11, 1965;
and
(h)   "Development Credit Agreement 242-IN" means the Development
Credit Agreement (Second Power Transmission Project) between the Borrower and
the Association, dated May 3, 1971.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in   various currencies equivalent to  eighty-five  million  dollars
($85,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) no withdrawal
shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories, and (b) no withdrawal shall be made
with respect to contracts for the purchase of goods and services which are awarded
more than eighteen months after the date of this Agreement.


﻿5
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid is a Foreign Bid (as defined in paragraph B(2)(c)
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), the Borrower shall immediately grant permission
to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews of such permission
to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies, including
the Directorate General of Technical Development. When, with respect to any
contract, the lowest evaluated bid is a Preferred Domestic Bid or a Non-preferred
Domestic Bid (as defined in paragraphs B(2) (a) and (b) of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate
applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
*       promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor; and
(iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Crf.dit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1983, and ending February 15, 2023, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1993 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall obtain from each Board and the Company,
respectively, an undertaking, in a form to be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association and (except in case of the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking,
the Beas Construction Board and the Company) endorsed by the State in which
such Board is established and in the case of the Assam State Electricity Board,
also endorsed by the state of Meghalaya and the Union Territory of Mizoram:
(i)         to carry out its part of the Project under the general supervision
of the Borrower with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices;
(ii)       to obtain the goods to be acquired out of the proceeds of the
Credit free and clear of all encumbrances; and in accordance
with the provisions set forth as referred to in Section 2.03 of
this Agreement and to use such goods exclusively in the carrying
out of the Project;
(iii)      to furnish to the Association through the Borrower promptly
upon their approval by the Borrower the plans, specifications,
justification, and construction schedule for its part of the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein, in
such detail as the Association shall from time to time request;
(iv)        to maintain records adequate to identify the goods and services
acquired out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use
thereof in the Project, to record the progress of its part of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound public utility accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of such Board
and Company;
(v)         to allow the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the


﻿7
sites, works and construction included in the Project, the
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(vi)        to insure with responsible insurers, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, all goods acquired out of the proceeds of
the Credit; such insurance shall cover such marine, transit and
other risks incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation; shall be for
such amounts as shall be consistent with sound business
practices; and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the insured party to replace or
repair such goods;
(vii)       in addition, to insure against such risks and in such- amounts
as shall be consistent with sound business and public utility
practices or to make other adequate arrangements to cover
promptly any damage or losses resulting from such risks;
(viii)      to inform   the Borrower and the Association promptly of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the carrying
out of its part of the Project, or which shall increase or threaten
to increase materially the estimated cost of its part of the
Project;
(ix)        to give all such information as the Borrower and the Association
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
financial condition, the operation and administration of such
Board and Company;
(x)         to furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning its part of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds;
(xi)        except for the Beas Construction Board, to (a) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements in respect of each fiscal
year) audited; (b) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but, in any case no. later than six months after the end of each
such year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (ii) report of such audit; and (c) furnish


﻿8
to the Association such other information concerning the
foregoing accounts and financial statements as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request;
(xii)       except for the Beas Construction Board and the Company, to
perform its obligations in accordance with the obligations set
forth under Section 7.03(a)(ii) of Loan Agreement 416-IN as
the same may be modified from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(xiii)      except for the Beas Construction Board and the Company, to
transmit to the Borrower and to the Association for the fiscal
year ending March 31, 1973, and for each fiscal year thereafter,
financial data (including, inter alia, pro forma income statements,
statements of sources and application of funds, rate bases and
details of indebtedness) in the form prescribed by the Borrower,
such data (A) to be separated relating to rural electrification
and relating to such Board's other supply functions, and (B)
to be submitted to the Association no later than November 30
following the end of the respective fiscal year, except if the
Association shall otherwise agree.
(xiv)       except for the Beas Construction Board, the Delhi Electricity
Supply Undertaking, and the Company to agree to the provisions
set forth in Section 4.04 hereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make available, or cause
to be made available, to the Boards, promptly as needed, all sums, including the
proceeds of the Credit, which shall be required for the carrying out of their
respective parts of the Project, all such sums to be made available on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action which shall
be necessary on its part to enable the Boards and the Company to carry out their
respective parts of the Project and shall not take, or permit any agency of the
Borrower to take, any action that would prevent or interfere with the prompt
carrying out of their respective parts of the Project by the Boards or the Company.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Board in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and in
particular to cause each Board and the Company to carry out its respective


﻿9
obligations under the undertakings referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and under the assurances specified in Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
(d)   The portion of the proceeds of the Credit to be made available to
each Board, the Southern and Northern Regional Boards and the Company,
respectively, shall be as allocated in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, subject to
modification by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the part of the Project to be carried out by
the Borrower on behalf of the Southern and Northern Regional Boards, respectively,
the Borrower shall:
(i)         assume the obligations specified in paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (iv),
(v), (vi), (vii), (viii) and (x) of Section 3.01 hereof; and
(ii)        provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose, including such amount
of the proceeds of the Credit as is allocated to the Borrower
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, subject to modification by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower undertakes to strengthen the coordination of
its power sector planning with that of its other economic sectors and with the
work of other of its agencies operating in the field of energy planning, to extend
the scope of such planning to cover a 15-year period and to initiate forthwith
the preparation of a comprehensive power development plan to be updated
annually.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall constitute an expert committee within three
months of the date of this Agreement to consider amendments to the Electricity
(Supply) Act, in regard to the financial and accounting provisions contained therein.
The Borrower shall keep the Association reasonably informed as to the work
progress and recommendations of the expert committee.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree no later than
December 31, 1973, the Borrower shall (i) provide all states of India as well as
their Electricity Boards with appropriate guidelines for the capitalization of interest


﻿10
during construction and (ii) obtain from each State an assurance satisfactory to
the Association to cause its Board to capitalize interest during construction in
accordance with the said guidelines.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall obtain from each State an assurance, in
a form to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association:
(i)         to provide its Board with an annual subsidy equivalent to the
amount by which such Board's operating expenses in respect
of its rural electrification operations exceed its revenues from
such operations; and
(ii)        to waive. or to make other arrangements acceptable to the
Association for the disposal of, any claim such State may have
against its Board for payment of interest arrears accumulated
up to March 31, 1970, or such other later date as may be
mutually agreed to between the States and their Boards with
respect to the respective loans made by each State to its Board,
provided, however, that with respect to the State of Assam, such
action and all payments of principal and interest on suci loans
shall be deferred until such time as the division of the assets
and liabilities of its Board between the States of Assam and
Meghalaya and the Union Territory of Mizoram shall have been
determined.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later than
one month after the date of this Agreement, a feasibility study in regard to the
setting up of a load dispatch center for the Northern Regional Board, satisfactory
to this Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the Boards


﻿11
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the Boards
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
*         thereof or the performance by either of them        of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall have occurred on the part of any Board or the Company
in the performance of any undertaking referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
of the Borrower under Loan Agreement 416-IN, or in the performance by any
Board (as defined in Section 1.02(c) of this Agreement) of any undertaking referred
to in Section 7.03 of such Agreement.
(c)  A default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
of the Borrower under Development Credit Agreement 242-IN.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
any event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. This Development Credit Agreement shall not in any event
come into force and effect in respect of any portion of the Credit until the


﻿13
Association shall have dispatched to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the
evidence called for in Sections 10.01 and 10.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, this Development Credit Agreement shall come into force and effect in
respect of the portion of the Credit allocated in Schedule 4 to this Agreement
to any of the Boards, the Company or to the Borrower, respectively, as follows:
(a)   with respect to the portion of the Credit allocated to any Board (except
the Beas Construction Board and the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking), when:
(i)         the Association shall have received such Board's undertaking
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and
(ii)       the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its
acceptance of such respective undertaking.
(b)   with respect to the portion of the Credit allocated to either the Beas
Construction Board, the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking, or the Company,
when:
(i)         the Association shall have received the undertaking referred to
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement in relation to the Board in
question or the Company; and
(ii)       the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its
acceptance of such undertaking.
(c)   with respect to the portion of the Credit allocated to the Borrower
for the Southern and Northern Regional Boards, respectively, when the condition
specified in Section 10.01(a) of the General Conditions shall have occurred.
Section 8.03. (a) The date of September 30, 1973 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
(b)   If by the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section 8.03, there
shall be a portion of the Credit in respect of which this Development Credit
Agreement shall not have come into force and effect, then all obligations of the
parties hereunder with respect to such portion of the Credit shall terminate and
such portion of the Credit shall be deemed to be cancelled pursuant to Article
VI of the General Conditions, unless the Association, after consideration of the
reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for purposes of this paragraph. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿14
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III and IV of
this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 7.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or Deputy
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower,
acting singly is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Eric Gonsalves
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Conductors and                20,730,000          100% of total
groundwire                                       expenditures
II.  Towers                         8,550,000          100% of total
expenditures
III.  Insulators                    2,940,000          100% of total
expenditures
IV.  Substation                    28,740,000          100% of total
Equipment                                        expenditures
V.   Load Despatch                  9,670,000          100% of total
Equipment                                        expenditures
VI.  Miscellaneous                  2,610,000          100% of total
Equipment                                        expenditures
VII. Unallocated                   1 1,760,000
TOTAL              85,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)  payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,


﻿17
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   payment for any local equipment or materials except the ex-factory
cost thereof; and
(d)   expenditures for freight and insurance within the territories of the
Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any of the
Categories I through VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's Development Plan covering the period
of 1972 through 1977 and consists of the supply and construction of about 4,000
km of transmission lines operating at voltages between 110 kv and 400 kv, about
60 substations with an aggregate capacity of about 4,600 MVA and communications
equipment for two load despatch centers. The Project is to be carried out by:
(i) the Borrower on behalf of the Southern and Northern Regional Boards,
respectively (ii) the Boards of the States of Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Mysore, Orissa,
Assam and Tamil Nadu, (iii) the Beas Construction Board, (iv) the Delhi Electricity
Supply Undertaking, and (v) the Company.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for machinery, equipment or material estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Except if the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, such
standard conditions of contract shall be used in inviting bids as were agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association for the purposes of procurt nent under
Development Credit Agreement 242-IN.
(c)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borr6wer and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿20
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's prior concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were
asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for machinery, equipment or material,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Identical or similar items of machinery, equipment or material shall, to the
extent possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purposes of bidding
by each participant.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight, insurance and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account
in the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
India for which the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.


﻿21
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in India.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Categories I through VI of the table set out in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted
by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by
adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred
Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal
to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared             Preference
1.              All Preferred Domestic Bids and            None
Non-Preferred Domestic Bids.
11.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1,        Add Domestic
if Preferred Domestic Bid, with all        Preference
Foreign Bids;                              Margin to
Foreign Bids
U1,
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I,         None
if Non-preferred Domestic Bid,
with all Foreign Bids.
III.            If lowest evaluated bid under Stage        None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage I, all Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to 'referred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Millions
of (JS$ equivalent
State Electricity Board of Assam                                  2.47
State Electricity Board of Kerala                                 8.39
State Electricity Board of Madhya Pradesh                         8.93
State Electricity Board of Mysore                                12.21
State Electricity Board of Orissa                                12.69
State Electricity Board of Tamil Nadu                             8.49
Beas Construction Board                                          15.89
Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking                              4.56
Tata Power Company Ltd.                                           5.89
Borrower for the Southern
Regional Electricity Board                                        0.48
Borrower for the Northern Regional
Electricity Board                                                 5.00
TOTAL               85.00


