D)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAAL USE ONLY
CA' 2 Z Z                              0 ;
Report No. 8979-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 15, 1991
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tbeir offical duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENCY UNITS
Currency Unit - Boliviano (Be)
Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 1990
US$1.00 - Bs 3.13
US$0.32 = Bo t.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASDURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND AjRONYMS
CIAT        -     Centro de Investigaci6on de Agricultura Tropical
CIFP        -     Centro de Investigacion Fitogen6tica Pairumani
CINMYT      -     Centro International de Nejoramiento de Malz y Trigo
CIP         -     Centro Internacional de la Papa
CNIEA       -     Consejo Nacional de Investigaci6n y Extension
Agropecuaria
COTESU      -     Swiss Fund for Technical Cooperation
EMBRAPA     -     Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
GOB         -     Government of Bolivia
IBTA        -     Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia Agropecuaria
IBTN        -     Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia Nuclear
ICA         -     Colombian Agricultural Institute
IDB         -     Inter-American Development Bank
MACA        -     Ministry of Agriculture and Campesino Affairs
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pace No_.
I.    CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Structure and Performance  . . . . . . . . . .    . . .       5
Agricultural Development Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Agricultural Research and Extension in Bolivia . . . . . . .   6
IDA Strategies for the Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . .   9
Project Strategy for Agricultural Research . . . . . . . . .  11
III.  THE PROJECT.............. . . . .               .     .       13
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Project . . . . . . . .  13
Objectives ....*   14
Project Components . 1 S .  .  . . . . . . . .  .  .         1s
Detailed Project Description. . . . .  .     ...             16
The National Council for Agricultural Research
and Extension         . . . . . . .        . . . .         16
The Bolivian Institute of Agricultural Technology  . . . . .  17
Project Organization and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . .  27
Project Costs          . . . . . . . .  ...   .              28
Financing Plan . .  . . . . . . .           ..    . .        29
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Disbursements       . . .  .    . . . . . . . .  .    30
Project Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Role of Women  . . . . .  .   . .   .  . . . .               31
Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . ..       31
Project Risks  . .....   . . . . ..                          32
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .     .  .  .  ..  .   32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bolivia in June/July 1990. The mission comprised Messrs. James H. Cock (Team
Leader/Agriculturalist). Douglas Masterton (Consultant/Agronomist).
Robert Etheredge (Consultant/Architect) and German Vargas (Consultant/
Institutional Specialist).  Messrs. Matthew McMahon and Dirk van der Sluijs
reviewed this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents
Paae No.
Table I - Project Cost Summary  .......... ... .            .   35
Table 2 - Summary Accounts by Year  . . . . . . . ..  *   . . . . .  36
Table 3 - Summary Accounts Cost Summary. ............   37
ANNEX 2
Table 1 - Field Research Staff by Program. & Year . . . . . . . .  38
Table 2 - Staff Positions at End of Project by Stations
and Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
Table 3 - Summry of Total IBTA Staff by Year . . . . . . . . . . 39a
,-NNx 3
General Organizational Chart  ... .  ...  .............  ........   40
AIfNN= 4
Table 1 -List of Proposed Positions  .4.44444444444              41
Table 2 - Proposed Grade Structure & salaries . . . . . . . . . .  43
1UNNE 5
Degree Training Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
ISTA Performance Indicators . . .* 444.44444* 4                  45
ANNX 7
Program of IBTA Activities  ... .  .  .  .  .  .    ............. .....   49
ANNEX 8
Notes on the Working Paper  . . . . . .         . . . . . . .    50
AfIE 9
Selected Documents end Data Available in the Project File . . . .  51
AMU 10
The Cosmodity Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  52
Map: IBRD No. 22554



BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:            Government of Bolivia
Executnag Aaenc:s  The Consejo Nacional de Investigacion y Extension
Agropecuaria (CNIEA), an agency of the Borrower, and the
Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (IBTA)
Beneficiaries:       The project focuses on the highlands where 802 of the
population lives. Poverty is rife in the area among the
target population of 2-3 million smallholder farmers,
livestock producers and their families, who produce most
of the staple food for the whole country, on small- or
medium-sized farms with very low levels of productivity.
Credit Amount:       SDR 15.0 million (US$21.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancina:         US$3.5 million from the Swiss Fund for Technical
Cooperation (COTESU) of Switzerland
Project Objectives
and DescriDtion:    The proposed project would have two main objectives.
Firstly, to improve the overall efficiency of research
and extension and, secondly, to directly support
tecnnology development in the highland agricultural
sector. The project would establish a Consejo Nacional
de Investigaci6n y Extensi6n Agropecuaria (CNIRA) to more
effectively coordinate research and extension in the
country as a whole. The project would also strengthen
the national agricultural research agency, the Instituto
Boliviano de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (IBTA), and focus
its efforts on developing technology suitable for
smallholders in the highlands. The new IBTA would be
reorganized on the basis of commodity programs, and be
charged with overall responsibility for developing
agricultural production, processing and marketing
technology, and for demonstrating its technical, economic
and social viability within the constraints of the rural
conditions. The commodities to be researched would be:
potato, cameloids, sheep and forage, maize, small grains,
grain legumes (Faba beans and peas), and quinoa.
The project would be implemented over seven years. The
IDA credit would finance 702 (US$21 million) of
incremental project costs during the period. Bilateral
financing from Switzerland's Technical Cooperation
program (COTESU) would provide US$3.5 million and the
Government of Bolivia would finance the balance of US$5.3



- 2 -
million (182 of project costs).  Government would be
required to maintain a ratio between personnel costs and
recurrent operational costs of about 65:35 to ensure
adequate operational funds for effective research.
Governme.t would assume an increasing share of the total
recurrent costs as the project proceeds increasing from
10% in Year 4 and reaching 652 by Year ..  Support would
be provided fort (i) commodity research programs;
(ii) staffing; (iii) training of research and
administrative staff; (iv) renovation of existing
infrastructure plus limited additions; (v) vehicles and
equipment; (vi) technical assistance; (vii) studies into
ways of meeting long-term extension and research needs;
(viii) improved administration and personnel management;
(ix) a mid-term evaluation of the project including a
review of mechanisms for obtaining stability of funding
for IBTA; (x) subcontracting of specialized research to
other agencies; and (xi) establishment of CNIEA and
implementation of its program.
Project Benefits:   The project risks can be divided into those normally
associated with research projects and those specific to
this case. In the case of the former, the basket of
programs in the project spreads the normal risk that
individual research programs may not reach their planned
goals. Furthermore, the planning and evaluation
processes built into the project design would allow a
flexible approach to resolving unexpected problems in the
development of technology. One of the common failings of
agricultural research programs is that they produce
technological packages that are technically sound but
that are not socially or economically viable in the
environment of the producers, processors, marketing
agents or consumers. The pilot project approach to
technology testing and adaptation under the project is
geared to avoiding this problem. A further risk is that
of the transfer process not being effective. The project
includes a special study of the technology transfer
process which should provide recommendations on how this
can be improved as a basis for a follow-up project. In
addition, the pilot approach to technology testing would
involve technology transfer and should give insights into
deficiencies in the process that need to be corrected.
A major uncertainty in this project is the capacity of
IBTA and the CNIEA to execute and manage a program of
this magnitude. The project provides for technical
assistance and funding to allow for a twinning
arrangement, with an experienced national agricultural
institution. Moreover, the project actually involves a
reduction in the scope of IBTA's activities, a reduction
in its personnel and in the number of research stations.



3-
This in itself may be politically onerous to achieve and
considerable political commitment would be required to
carry out these measures. However, already staff numbers
have been substantially reduced.
Proiect Costs
Local          Forejgn           Total
--(US$ Millions)------------
Training                     0.34           2.20             2.54
Tecenical Assistance         0.43           2.96             3.39
Infrastructure               0.79           0.40             1.19
Equipment & Vehicles         0.42           2.43             2.84
Other Investment Costs       0.37           0.33             0.71
Personnel and Operations   10.10            3.60            13.70
Total Base Costs            12.45          11.92            24.37
Physical Contingencies       0.17           0.30             0.46
Price Contingencies          3.22           1.71             4.93
TOTAL           15.84           13.93           29.76
Financinft Plan
Government of Bolivia        5.3           --                5.3
COTESU                       2.6             .9              3.5
IDA                          8.0           13.0             21.0
TOTAL                       15.9           13.9             29.8
Estimated Disbursements   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997   1988
Annual                      0.8   2.3   2.7   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.6   1.4
Cumulative                  0.8   3.1   5.8   9.2  12.6  16.0  19.6  21.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
IBRD Map No. 22554



- 4 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structure and Performance
2.01        Bolivia hae a population estimated at approximately 7 million.
The country covers an area of 1,098,581 k12. The three major ecological
regions are the Altiplano in the couthwest, the Vallee and Yungas of the
mountainous chain running from the central western area to the central south
and the eastern plains of the Chaco and Beni. The Altiplano is a highland
plain with an average altitude of 3700 m and average temperatures of 10°C.
This region includes the major city, La Paz and the major mining areas of the
country. Although this semi-arid region occupies only 232 of the total land
area, it possesses 382 of the population. The mountainous chain (Yungas and
Valles) consists of small areas of flat valleys and mountains. The major flat
lands are the three semi-arid valleys of the Cochabamba region with a total
area of about 100,000 ha. The mountains and valleys occupy 27Z of the area
with 422 of the pcpulation. Together the Altiplano and Valles comprise the
highlands and are home to close to 802 of the rural population. The vast
eastern plains, the frontiar lands of Bolivia, cover 50Z of the total land
area but are sparsely inhabited with only 20% of the population (Perfil
Ambiental de Bolivia, USAID, 1986).
2.02        The last effective census in 1976 indicated that 581 of the
population was rural. Projections suggest that at present slightly more than
502 of the population is rural. The female population employed in agriculture
is undoubtedly high as the women commonly tend the crops and livestock,
particularly in the highlands, however, no concrete data are available on this
aspect. The 1976 census indicated that 542 of the total male labor force was
occupied in agriculture. Nevertheless, on average in 1978, 282 of the total
household income of farm families came from farm activities (some of this
income may still be in the agriculture sector as hired labor either in the
region or as migratory labor in other regions). The percentage was highest in
the Altiplano (28-56%), and lower in the Valles and Yungas (7-312) and the
eastern plains (172). The severe cutbacks in the employment in the mining
industry in the Altiplano have undoubtedly reduced the level of off-farm
income in the Altiplano, especially in the department of Oruro where more than
half the total income of farm families came from non-agricultural activities
in 1978. These data indicate the importance of agriculture as a source of
employment in the Bolivian economy. As the population is concentrated in the
highlands its importance in these regions is evident.
2.03        Bolivia has a very low population density estimated at 6.4
inhabitants per square km. The level is greatest in the Altiplano (10.6) and
Valles (9.6) and lowest in the eastern plains (2.6). The total cultivated
area was estimated from satellite imagery to be 2.9 million ha in 1978. It is
likely that a major proportion of this was in fallow, and current estimates
are of the order of 1.1 million ha in crops at any one time. The total
cultivated area is less than 3X of total area and the possibilities for
expanding cultivated area are great in the lowlands. On the other hand, in
the Altiplano and the Valles the limiting factor to expansion of cropped area
is topography and water availability, with the latter constraint being of



- 5 -
parsmount importance in the Altiplano. Increasing the availability of water
requires investment in infrastructure which is unlikely to be available for
large areas in the near future.
2.04        Bolivia is among the poorest countries in Latin America with a per
capita GDP of US$750. It has been estimated that most of the two million
people who live in critical levels of poverty in the rural sector are peasants
of the Altiplano, Valles and Yungas. The average family income in the
Altiplano zone is one-third of that in the departments of Tarija and Santa
Cruz. The large proportion of the rural population that depends on
agriculture in the Altiplano and the Valles and Yungas, the greater severity
of poverty in these areas, the difficulty of expanding the production area,
and the lack of viable alternatives for these areas, highlights the need for
improvement of the productivity of the agricultural sector in these regions.
2.05        The Gross Domestic Product of Bolivia suffered a continuous
decline in the period 1980-1984 of 2.6% per year. The New Economic Policy
instigated in 1985 has stabilized the economy and since then it has
recuperated with an annual growth rate of over 21 since 1986. On the
contrary, the agricultuzal ,DP grew by 3.51 per year in the period 1980-1985
and then declined by 21 per year in the period 1986-1988. The agricultural
sector in 1988 comprised 22.6S of the value added, of which the livestock
subsector accounted for 19Z. The overall production of the agricultural
sector has remained relatively constant between 60 and 68 million m ton from
1980-1988, except for the dry year of 1983 when total production declined to
50 million m ton. There has been no discernible trend in agricultural
production, either to increase or decrease with variation largely attributable
to climatic variation. Productivity per hectare has also shown no noticeable
trend to increase or decrease.
2.06        Of the most important crops, the largest increases in total
production in the period 1980-1988 have been in the lowland crops, rice (81%)
and soybeans (217X) due to increases in both area and yield, and in cassava
(951) and plantains (731) due to increases in area planted- In the highlands
and valleys there has been no tendency for an increase in area planted or
yield of the traditional crops planted, and no new crops have become well
established in a similar manner to soybeans in the lowlands. Nevertheless,
the highlands still provide the basic foodstuffs of the Bolivian population.
Of the basic staples 541 of the grain production, 671 of the tuber production
and close to 100% of the grain legumes for human consumption come from the
highland areas.
Agricultural Development Polica
2.07        A turning point for the agricultural sector was the revolution of
1952 followed by the land reform laws of 1953. Under these laws the land of
the latifundistas was to be returned to those that work the land. This policy
still remains in force today, however, land distribution has not been as
equitable as strict interpretation of the laws would suggest. Neverthelesi,
in the highland areas the large rural population does in general have access
to land, although units are generally small and mostly without registered
title.



- 6 -
2.08        In Decree #22407 January 1990, the Government lays out its
policies for consolidation of the programs for stabilization of the economy,
growth, employment and social development. The recent decree requires that
the Ministry of Agriculture and Campesino Affairs (MACA) will establish
priority support programs for soybeans, wheat, silk, beef, quinoa, wool and
cameloid fiber, coffee, flowers and garlic. But it is noteworthy that these
priority areas do not include the most important traditional staples of the
Bolivian diet: potatoes, maize, and grain legumes produced mainly by the
smaller farmers of the highlands. Nevertheless, the GOB has recognized the
importance of this sector and has initiated a study of crop insurance that
includes hail and frost damage. In addition, the GOB has recently simplified
the processes for obtaining land titles, a problem that has been psaticularly
intractable for the smaller producer in the highlands. Furthermore, the
coverage of "School Food Programs" will be amplified starting with the rural
sector. This action indicates the GOB's concern with the nutritional status
of the poor, while pointing to the importance of ensuring the availability of
staple food supplies for this program.
2.09        The overall policy framework in Bolivia is one of decentralization
of activities wherever possible. This gives increased responsibility to the
Regional Development Corporations for many of the activities previously
assigned to centralized entities such as MACA. Within this policy it is
expected that only those activities that are most efficiently concentrated in
one agency will be centralized (e.g., research on commodities of national
importance) and other activities (e.g., extension, adaptive research or
research on commodities of local rather then national significance) will be
carried out by decentralized agencies.
Agricultural Research and Extension in Bolivia
2.10        Back_round.  Agriculture was not seen as an important sector in
the overall growth and development of Bolivia until recently. Until the 1970s
agricultural research was extremely limited.   The national agricultural
research agency in Bolivia is the Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria (IBTA). The other main agricultural research ogencies are: IBTA
Chapare which operates independently of IBTA headquarters and is supported
almost entirely by USAID; the Centro de Investigaciones Fitogeneticas de
Pairumani (CIJP) which carries out research on maize, grain legumes and durum
wheat with support from private foundations; the Instituto Boliviano de
Tecnologia Nuclear (IBTN) which is a Government agency with limited funding
that has recently concentrated its efforts on agriculture in the highlands;
the Centro de Investigacion Agricola Tropical (CIAT) in the Department of
Santa Cruz and a large number of NGOs and special programs financed with
external funds. Coordination between different research agencies is limited
and there is no single entity charged with setting national research
priorities and coordinating the efforts of national research agencies or the
support given to them from international sources. The total direct public
sector support to agricultural research in Bolivia, excluding foreign
assistance, is less than US$2 million per year with approximately US$1 million
for CIAT in Santa Cruz and considerably less than US$1 million for IBIT. This
contrasts with a total contribution of agriculture to the GDP of the order of



- 8 -
2.13        The total budget of IBTA (including special project and bilateral
support) in dollar terms has fluctuated wildly in the period from 1984-1988.
In 1989 the central budget of IBTA assigned by the National Treasury, for both
research and extension activities, was approximately US$750,000, of which
slightly less than 302 was for operations with the remainder being largely to
cover salaries. This relation of salaries to operational costs appears
reasonable in comparison to other research agencies. However, the comparison
is Jistorted by the fact that the salaries paid to staff are too low. In
reality, therefore, funding is not sufficient to effectively maintain
operations. Bilateral projects exceed the direct Government support for
agricultural research by an ample margins the Swiss-financed potato project
alone has a budget of US$2.5 million for research for a two-year period from
1989-1991.
2.14        IBTA has a central administrative unit in La Paz, 12 experimental
stations, 13 nurseries and an office in each department. The research
stations are moderately well equipped and possess good basic infrastructure.
3uildings are in relatively good condition, but equipment has not been well
maintained and much is now beyond its useful life (the last major purchases of
machinery occurred in the period of 1981-1982). Research is diffused with a
large number of commodities being covered including cameloids, sheep, cattle,
pastures, potatoes and other highland tuber crops, small cereal grains, rice,
maize, field beans, soybeans, peanuts, sunflower, brazil nuts, cassava,
quinoa, coffee, cacao, citrus, and rubber. The programs on each commodity are
small, and it is only those crops that receive bilateral aid th t have
effective research, at least for as long as the bilateral aid is maintained.
2.15        In spite of this rather dismal picture of IBTA, it has been
successful in certain fields in providing technology that has been adopted and
used by farmers. IBTA varieties of quinca and wheat are now widely grown by
farmers, and oats have increased in importance as a grain, rather than forage
crop, due to the availability of technology and varieties developed by IBTA.
2.16        CUIP, one of the executive branches of a consortium of private
foundations (Fundacion Universitaria Simon Patino, Pundacion Simon Patino and
Fundacion Pro-Bolivia) is located in Cochabamba. Its objectives are to
develop new varieties of maize, durum wheats, and grain legumes (field beans,
lupins and Faba beans), and to make available basic seed of new varieties of
these crops. The work of the CIPP is closely coordinated with the MACA, which
gives CIFP the responsibility for certain areas of research, including
coordination of research throughout the country in some commodities. CIFP,
however, concentrates its efforts on research in the department of Cochabamba;
it does little adaptive research in other departments at present and its
linkages with extension services are tenuous.
2.17        The budget of CIPP, provided by the above-mentioned foundations,
is currently US$160,000 per year. This budget supports 9 researchers (1 PbD,
and 2 MSc). Sixty percent of the budget is for personnel costs and the
remainder for operations and investment.
2.18        The main efforts of the CIUP have been in maize production.  The
small, well managed team has done effective applied research that has lead to



- 7 -
US$1,000 million. Research supported by the public sector is less than 0.21
of the agricultural GDP and 61 of the public sector investment program for
agriculture. The World Bank, Agricultural Research Sector Policy Paper (1981)
suggests that 1-2S of AGDP be invested in research. Foreign aid supports the
agricultural research budget to the tune of another 2-4 million per year,
however, these efforts are often uncoordinated and may actually disrupt
activities financed directly by the national treasury by diluting the efforts
of the scarce human resources available to carry out agricultural research
programs. More than US$10 million is channeled to agricultural extension
through a multiplicity of loosely related organizations, which often have
extremely limited links with research agencies. Thus, in the case of
extension, the critical constraint appears to be more one of organization and
coordination than a lack of overall financial support. This situation
contrasts with that of research, which is generally poorly funded outside the
department of Santa Cruz.
2.11        IBTA.  The Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (IBTA)
formally has the responsibility for technology generation and transfer
throughout the country. IBTA was established by special decree in 1975 as an
autarkic institute within the M&CA structure. According to the decree it has
technical, economical, administrative and financial sovereignty. However, in
practice it is dependent on the MACA for its budget allocation. Its
independent board, which is supposed to meet each month, is rarely convened,
and its director general has been subject to frequent changes in spite of a
statutory period of four years.
2.12        Over the last three years the total technical staff in IBTA has
fluctuated around 250 professionals. Of these, approximately 401 are
dedicated to research and the remainder to administration, support services
and extension. The professional level of the staff is low for a research and
extension organization, with only two PhDs (one of whom is the director) and
17 MSc. The majority of professional staff are students who have not yet
graduated and graduates from technical schools. Staff are supported by a
fluctuating number of workers, mechanics etc., that brings the total personnel
to over 500. Staff morale is extremely low. Turnover of professional staff
is high, averaging between 22 and 301 per year for the years 1986-1988. This
high turnover appears to be related to low salaries and limited opportunities
to carry out effective research as operational budgets are too low. Salaries
of professional staff are frequently paid late and average less than US$50 per
month. In many stations staff salaries are either topped up through the
production from the experimental stations and researchers are more interested
in production than research per se. Aid agencies have been attempting to
mitigate the hardships of such low salaries in joint projects by topping up
the salaries of the civil service staff with which they cooperate. This
reaches absurd levels at times with the topping equal to several times the
official salary. In this situation the rational official who has good skills,
and no private income, looks for aid projects in which he can work and also
feels that his interests are best served by following the directives of the
aid agency rather than the official ministry policies. The result is close to
anarchy on the planning, evaluation and implementation of projects, causing
major distortions in the use of limited research funds.



positive results at the farm level. It is estimated that all the maize for
silage in Bolivia is produced using CIFP varieties, 82 of the corn for human
consumption and 22X of lowland maize used for animal feed is from CIFP lines
developed in cooperation with CIMHYT in Mexico. The CIFP estimates that as a
result of its efforts for maize for human consumption, yields in the Valles
have increased from 2.20 to 2.40 ton/ha on an area of 100,000 ha in a ten-year
period. The gross value of the incremental production can roughly be
estimated at US$2 million per year, a figure that is more than ten times the
annual research budget.
2.1-9       IBTN.  The IBTN is a small Government institute just outside
La Paz that is now concentrating its efforts on agriculture. In spite of low
salaries its staff morale has remained relatively high due to good leadership
of young, dedicated scientists. It has managed to maintain its equipment and
infrastructure. Its excellent facilities, obtained through bilateral support,
particularly in the areas of chemical analysis and in vitro culture techniques
are at present not effectively linked with the other national or regional
research efforts. IBTN also has expertise in the area of soil water
management and conservation of fertility in the Altiplano.
2.20        NGOs.  There are a large number of NGOs and bilateral agencies
that research various topics, mainly related to appropriate technology for
small producers. Most of this research is carried out by testing new ideas,
often obtained from other countries, on farmers fields and modifying them in
the light of experience gained on an operational basis. Technology transfer
is the strongest aspect of the NGO programs. Although IBTA had responsibility
for extension services according to its mandate, it is doing little in this
area. The main extension efforts are carried out by the NGOs and the regional
corporations. The efforts of the multiple NGOs and the other agencies are in
general poorly coordinated with farmers often times receiving conflicting
advice and recommendations from diverse agencies present in the same region.
IDA Stratexies for the Agricultural Sector
2.21        IDA's strategy for Bolivia's agricultural sector reflects its
support for the market and private sector-oriented agricultural development
policy of the present Bolivian administration. IDA's strategy in Bolivia has
four main thrusts. Firstly, to consolidate the macro-economic stability that
has recently been achieved; secondly, to increase the level of efficiency of
investment; thirdly, to support measures that generate employment and income
for the poor (with particular emphasis on women); and fourthly, to improve the
delivery of social services by better targeting, increased efficiency and
extended basic services to underserved populations. In the short term, the
largest contributions to growth are seen to be from operations in transport
infrastructure, hydrocarbons, mining and commercial agriculture. Furthermore,
it is indicated that IDA lending should primarily be for investment lending
and institutional development support. In the shorter term in the
agricultural sector, this strategy is reflected in the Eastern Lowlands:
Natural Resource Management and Agricultural Production Project (Cr. 2119-BO).
The project is geared largely towards increasing foreign exchange earnings
through the export of soybean, produced by the medium to large commercial
farmers from the lowland tropical areas of the department of Santa Cruz. Over



- 10 -
the longer term, the strategy is embodied in assisting in: (a) the
administrative, financial and legal reorganization of MACA and laying the
groundwork for improving the services offered by the remaining public sector
institutions through the Economic Management Strengthening Operations Project
(EMSO); and (b) expanding the production of the agricultural commodities in
the context of the long-term rational utilization of the country's natural
resources, so as to promote a balanced and environmentally sound base for
development. The Agro-export Development Project (ADP), which is in
preparation, is an innovative approach to increasing incomes through linkage
between the small farmer and export markets. The commodities likxly to be
included in the ADP project are cameloid fiber products, quinoa, cochineal,
Brazil nuts, Angora hair, and cut flowers. This Agricultural Technology
Development Project covers overall institutional support for technology
development for some of the ADP commodities (cameloids and quinoa) and also
the basic staples.
2.22        Over the longer term, IDA strategies are geared to improving the
linkages between technology development and technology transfer. For
effective technology transfer it is essential to possess technology that is
appropriate to farmers' needs and well adapted to the local socioeconomic,
edaphic and climatic conditions. Present mechanisms for ensuring that
technology meets these criteria are not vell developed in most cases. This
project would include as a major part of the technology development process
mechanisms to test and adapt technology with active participation of extension
agencies and farmers themselves. In agricultural research, the gestation time
is normally long. To produce a new variety of most crops takes 5-10 years.
Hence, installation of research capacity, in the absence of transferable
technology, should logically precede a major effort in the field of extension.
Nevertheless, in the case of Bolivia there is already a limited amount of
technology ready to be transferred to producers. At present, there are myriad
extension agencies including the public sector regional development
corporations and many NGOs. Their activities are at present not well
coordinated. This project would place major emphasis on more rational use of
the resources available for extension by setting up a mechanism for
coordinating their efforts.   Thus the IDA strategy is, first of all, to
assist Bolivia in the establishment of research capacity and better
coordination of present extension capacity and then later, if necessary, to
reinforce the technology transfer capacity.
2.23        A total of eight agriculture sector projects totalling US$102.8
million have been financed by the Bank in Bolivia to date. Three of these
projects were for livestock development, one was for general agriculture,
three were for rural development in the Altiplano and one for the Eastern
Lowlands development. The earlier projects in general agriculture and
livestock were deemed successful, however, the more recent projects in rural
development faced serious problems in their implementation due to their
overall complexity, coupled with general economic and political instability,
shcrtage of counterpart funds, rapid changes in political appointments, and as
a result of these problems, periodic suspension of Bank disbursements. During
the last five years, the country has experienced greater economic and
political stability and a general atmosphere more conducive to establishing
viable projects.



- 11 -
Progect Strategy for Agricultural Research
2.24        Research by its very nature is an open-ended process in which
successive stages build on results and findings of the preceding phases. The
outcome of research programs is difficult or impossible to predict ex ante
with certainty. Nevertheless, applied research can be directed to achieve
specific objectives and outcomes and the probability of reaching them can be
estimated, even though the exact means by which they will be achieved may not
be precisely defined. Thus, research planning must be a flexible ongoing
process. Within a flexible approach there are certain inherent
characteristics that can be built into a research organization so as to
increase its efficiency in reaching its objectives. The following points (a)
to (f) are crucial elements of agricultural research programs. The manner in
which they would be addressed under the proposed project is indicated and
detailed in Chapter III.
(a)   Organization Goals.  Critical elements of an applied research
agency are clearly defined overall goals of the organization and
global strategies for reaching those goals. The Supreme Decrees
that would govern this project would clearly spell out the goals
and strategies of the major participating agencies;
(b)   Reward System.  The organization must possess a system that
recognizes and rewards those who contribute to meeting the
organizational goals. It is essential to obtain effeutive and
creative researchers and administrators, and to provide them with
a harmonious environment in which they may use their creative
ability to develop solutions to problems and innovative
alternatives that may lead to improvements in the livelihood of
their target audience. A content scientist also requires the
wherewithal to bring to fruition his ideas in terms of resources
such as equipment, supplies and technical support. The proposed
project includes in its design provision of transparent recruiting
procedures, systems for adequate remuneration based on function
and performance of personnel and a continuity of career
opportunities;
(c)   Budaetina Balance.  A common failing of agricultural research
programs is an imbalance in the allocation of resources to labor,
operational costs and investment. Investment programs, including
training as an investment in human capital, tend to be "lumpy" and
it is difficult to determine guidelines for the relative level of
investment costs and other costs. Furthermore, investment costs
can be delayed or reduced for periods of several years with little
loss in efficiency of the operation of a research program. On the
other hand, an imbalance in the relation between operational costs
and personnel costs can rapidly incapacitate a research program.
A common problem in research is that as the budget is squeezed the
operational costs are reduced and personnel are maintained. In
these circumstances staff are unable to function and the research
program rapidly grinds to a halt. The other alternative is to
reduce staff and maintain operational budgets. This has high



- 12 -
long-term costs as it is expensive and difficult later to obtain
staff with the requisite training and experience when the budget
situation improves. Hence, it is essential to maintain adequate
funding and a balance between personnel and operational costs.
While there is no golden rule for this balance, observation of
productive research entities indicates that when the balance moves
out of the range 60-702 personnel and 30-40Z operational costs,
the efficiency of the organization tends to decline. In the
proposed project the aim would be to stay within these limits and
project financing would be geared to supporting continuity of the
overall program and maintaining this balance;
(d)   Commodity vs. Systems Research.  Farmers normally produce a mix of
products or commodities. In recent years much attention has been
paid to looking at the farming systems to see how farmers can best
coordinate their activities so as to optimize their overall
farming operation. This approach presupposes that technology
exists for the individual components or commodities that make up
the farming system. In the case of Bolivia, the small farmer in
the highlands has through centuries of trial and error, developed
sustainable production systems based on crop rotation and fallow
periods. It is unlikely that research can significantly improve
these systems unless new improved technologies are developed for
the individual commodities. On the other hand, development of
improved technology for the small producer must take into account
the idiosyncracies of the production systems into which they must
fit. This suggests that in the first place studies must be made
to thoroughly understand the farming systems and then the
commodities can be researched so as to develop improved technology
which then needs to be tested and adapted so as to fit into the
systems. On the other hand commodity research may precede systems
research and come up with solutions that can radically alter the
overall system. There is no easy solution to this conundrum and
in a situation with ample resources for agricultural research it
would seem appropriate to do both systems and commodity research
in parallel with close coordination between them. This is clearly
not the case in Bolivia at present, nor is it likely to be in the
foreseeable future. Experience in other regions indicates that
the highest payoff will come from a commodity research approach
that maintains close contact with the farmers who will use the new
technology. Hence, this project would focus on commodity research
programs; the technology developed would then be adapted to fit
with local agricultural systems;
(e)   Anplied Research.  Agricultural research increases productivity in
two principal manners: firstly. through technological
breakthroughs such as was the case of the miracle rices and
wheats; and secondly, by maintaining close contact with producers
and making small incremental, rather than quantum leaps, by
rapidly and continually moving new ideas for testing at the farm
level. The similarity with industrial research and development
exists in that the first approach is like that of the change from



- 13 -
the valve to the transistor and then on to the integrated circuit,
whereas the second is akin to the development of the home video
recorder from the original studio machines. The incremental
development approach would be the mainstay of this project.
However, the possibility of breakthroughs type research is not
precluded, particularly for those commodities that have not been
heavily investigated in the past; and
(f)   Dissemination of Technoloav.  The problem of linking research and
extension is alwvays present and the question arises of how they
can be most effectively brought together. When the two are placed
administratively under the same roof two major problems frequently
occur. Firstly, the researchers normally consider themselves
intellectually superior to the extension agents and friction
develops. Secondly, the weight of numbers normally falls on the
side of the extension agents (allocation of resources to extension
is frequently 1-3 fold that applied to research in developing
countries) and hence they tend to dominate the organization. In
order to avoid these problems research and exteLsion
responsibilities are not combined in the proposed project. The
main problem with this separation is that researchers may become
divorced from reality and do research for research's sake. Under
the proposed project, this problem would be obviated by ensuring
that researchers maintain close contact with producers and by
ensuring that their finished product has been demonstrated to be
technically, economically and socially viable under farmer's
conditions. Furthermore, extension services are dependent on the
existence of proven viable technology to extend. In the case of
the Bolivian highlands, there is little existing technology, apart
from improved varieties which tend to sell themselves, albeit
slowly in the absence of good extension services, if they are
good. Hence, research should precede extension. However, in the
longer-term research can only provide good payoffs if it reaches
farmers rapidly and hence effective extension is a necessary
adjunct to the research effort. The proposed project would
instigate detailed studies on the present extension services and
how they could be improved. This could lead to a possible future
extension project and close linkages with other projects, such as,
the ADP project (see para. 2.21) which is under preparation with
IDA support.
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Proiect
3.01     In 1989 the Minister of Agriculture and Campesino Affairs (MACA)
indicated interest in an IDA project on agricultural research. The Minister
of Agriculture subsequently requested assistance from the International
Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) to review the structure,
function and management of the national agricultural research system, focusing
on needed changes including decentralization, that would permit improved



- 14 -
execution of the state research and extension activities. The work of ISNAR
in mid-1989 was coordinated with that of IDA and the FAO/CP in preparing the
proposed project. The project was prepared from late 1989 to April/May 1990
and was appraised in June/July 1990. Negotiations took place in Washington
from January 22-25, 1991.  The Government team was led by Dr. Hernan Zeballos
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Campesino Affairs.
3.02        Following the successful stabilization efforts embodied in the New
Economic Policy, IDA's strategy for Bolivia consists of assisting the
Government in its efforts to increase growth and diversify productive
activity, both through the private sector and improvement of support and
services of the public sector. The emphasis of IDA up to now has been on the
larger scale commercial productive sector. The small subsistence farmer who
is at best only marginally linked to the cash economy, is not common in the
Bolivia highlands: most crop and livestock farmers in the Altiplano and
Valles are actively involved in trading their excess production for cash
income or other goods. Although they are amongst the poorest of the rural
population, they often exchange their produce, particularly animal products,
to be able to provision themselves with their daily sustenance. Hence, it is
suggested that even the poorest of the farmers are engaged in "commercial"
agriculture. However, these farmers receive little support in terms of
services, such as research to provide improved technology to allow them to
increase the efficiency of their investment, be it in terms of labor, land or
capital.
3.03        The agricultural sector is the single most important sector in
terms of providing employment for men and almost certainly also for women
(para. 2.02). The low levels of income in the highland rural areas is
indicative of the combination of low levels of labor productivity and few
other employment opportunities in the region. Increased productivity of labor
can only be expected to occur as a result of adoption of more efficient
technology, which in turn assumes that the technology is developed. Support
for development of the national agricultural technology generation systems,
particularly those related to the highland areas, fits with IDA's strategy of
providing services to the poor, strengthening institutions, and stimulating
growth, employment and income generation in the agricultural sector.
Oblectives
3.04        The overall goal of this project is to improve the overall
efficiency of agricultural technology development in Bolivia, with special
emphasis on the highland areas where the majority of the rural poor reside.
The project would build on the investment already made in infrastructure,
financed by IDB and bilateral agencies over the past ten years.
3.05        In order to reach its objective, the project would have three
major strategies: (i) establishment of a mechanism for improving the
coordination of the various existing national, departmental, semi-private, and
private research and extension agencies; (ii) revitalization and clearer
focusing of IBTA's efforts on a limited number of comodities of importance to
the highland areas; and (iii) identification of mechanisms and design of a
follow-on project to further improve the efficiency of technology



- Is -
dissemination. The project would recognize the Government's strategy of
decentralization by concentrating its efforts on problems of importance over a
range of departments and by cooperating with the Regional Development
Corporations and other local agencies in the analysis of research needs, and
verification and adaptation of technology.
Protect Comionents
3.06        The project would have the dual focus of firstly, setting up a
mechanism to coordinate, regulate and rationalize, on a national scale, the
technology development and transfer efforts of diverse agencies through the
Consejo Nacional de Investigacion y Extension Agropecuaria (CNIRA); and
secondly, the IBTA would be reorganized so as to focus on developing
technology, paying special attention to a limited number of commodities of
importance to the poorer farmers of the highland regions. The major
components of the overall CNIEA and IBTA program would be as follows: 11
(a)   Support of CNIEA.  The CNIEA would coordinate and monitor national
agricultural research and extension activities, evaluate proposals
for new activities and advise the Minister on the status of
current activities and assess the projected activities. CNIEA
would also commission specific studies on the agricultural sector
(estimated cost US$0.8 million).
(b)   Reorganization of IBTA.  The new IBTA would be reorganized to
focus on technology generation and adaptation, rather than
technology transfer. A new administrative and management
structure would be established to improve the strategic and
operational planning of the institute; to introduce more cost-
effective budgeting and control mechanisms; to provide effective
information services; to provide more efficient support and
services to research and field staff; and to improve personnel
policies and management (estimated cost US$6.0 million).
(c)   Training.  The staff of IBT4 would receive specialized training
including the training of 8 PhDs and 21 MScs in the research
programs and shorter-term training for the administrative
personnel to improve the capacity of IBTA to carry out effective
technology development (estimated cost US$2.8 million).
1/   The cost figures given are the total cost figures, not incremental
project costs. This method is used as it is not realistic to attempt to
apportion the present costs of IBTA to the components presented here,
due to the change in overall structure of the institute. Without the
project, the estimated expenditure on technology development, projected
over seven years, would be US$4.9 million. Henco the incremental costs
are taken as the total costs presented in this section, US$34.7 less
US$4.9 million to give total incremental project costs of US$29.8
million.



- 16 -
(d)   Research Stations.  The project would provide support to make
three main research stations and three substations fully
operational. In addition, minimal support would be given for the
first three years of the project to three tropical lowland
stations, pending the outcome of the strategic study to define
future activities in the tropical lowlands and such other research
stations as may be acceptable to IDA (para. 3.29). The
operational and personnel expenses of all these stations would
also be covered by the project (estimated cost US$9.5 million).
(e)   Research Pronram SuDPort. The commodity programs would be charged
with producing the results and evaluating the impact on the target
population. The programs for corn, grain legumes, quinoa, small
grains, potato, sheep, cameloids, and pastures and other research
activities as may be agreed with IDA would be supported by the
project. In addition, the project would include exploratory
research needed to assist in the definition of new research
priorities (estimated cost US$11.2 million)
(f)   Strateaic studies would be done on extension strategies, and
priorities for research and extension in the lowlands as the basis
for designing a follow-on project to strengthen their activities
(estimated cost US$0.4 million).
(g)   External evaluation of IBTA and CNITA programs would be done mid-
term by an independent, internationally recognized group to
identify problems and to help direct subsequent research efforts
end achieve further strengthening of IBTA and CNIEA (estimated
cost US$0.2 million).
(h)   Technical Assistance.  An arrangement with a research agency from
another country with past research experience would be agreed
whereby highly qualified staff of such agency would, firstly,
provide continuity in the research programs whilst local staff are
absent on study leave and, secondly, would advise and assist IBTA
staff in planning and operations (estimated cost US$3.8 million).
Detailed Project DescriDtion
The National Council for Agricultural Research and Extension
3.07        At present in Bolivia there is no single agency with the
responsibility for coordinating the research and extension activities of the
multiple agencies involved. Foreign aid programs are at present able to
finance programs of special interest to the donor country that may not
necessarily fit vith overall Government policies and priorities, or that may
duplicate actions taken by other agencies. Furthermore, lack of planning and
coordination of research efforts leads to inefficient use of limited resources
and very little sustainability of effort.
3.08        Establishment.  The CNIEA has been established as an advisory body
that is attached to MACA. The CNIEA is headquartered in the MACA which



- 17 -
provides a technical secretariat including the council secretary. The CNIRA
comprises members drawn equally from the private and public sector, including
the NGOs. The council is permitted to establish permanent subcommittees and
ad hoc committees to facilitate its operation. The CNIEA is established under
A special Supreme Decree. The decree details functions and responsibilities
of the CNIEA as described below. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained
that the Government would not modify the decree without the agreement of IDA
(para. 4.01(a)).
3.09        Functional ResDonsibilities.  The CNIEA will have jurisdiction
over the whole national territory. Its overall objective is to contribute to
the development and improvement of agricultural technology, and its transfer
to those involved in the processes of production, processing, consumption and
marketing of agricultural products. The strategies adopted ares
(i) facilitate the coordination of activities between agencies with a view to
optimizing complementarity and reducing duplication; (il) promote and support
mechanisms for collaboration in the areas of research, pre-extension and
extension; (iii) contribute to the formulation of national and institutional
policies and strategies in research and extension; and (iv) evaluate the
results and impact of research and extension.
3.10        The functions and responsibilities of the CNIEA are: (i) advise
MACA on the formulation of policies and strategies for research and extension,
and to evaluate the overall status of agricultural technology development and
transfer; (ii) advise MACA on the criteria for assignation of international
and national financial resources for research, and extension; (iii) advise the
agencies involved in research and extension on the formulation of their
policies and strategies; (iv) commission studies and evaluations of research
and extension; (v) approve the Institutional Strategic Plans and modifications
of organizational structure, and evaluate the results and impact of IBTA and
other institutions involved in research, pre-extension and extension, that may
be established by Ministerial Decree; and (vi) publish and disseminate the
findings and decisions of the CNIEA in general and to produce a special
biennial report for the Minister of Agriculture on the status of research and
extension.
3.11        Financial Sunport.  The project would provide for the CNIEA's
initial investment in office equipment, support for salaries, its operational
budget, support for meetings of the Council, publication of reports, and
commissions for studies with a total cost of US$0.8 million.
The Bolivian Institute of Agricultural Technology (IBTA)
3.12        Goals and Obiectives.  The new IBTA has established its goals and
objectives according to a Supreme Decree, satisfactory to IDA. The decree
also includes specifics as to IBTA's organizational structure and the
responsibilities of its Board of Directors. The overall goal of IBTA is
defined as: to contribute to the improvement of the way of life and increase
the incomes of those involved in agricultural activities, particularly the
small- and medium-size farmers and the low income rural population engaged in
agriculture. The complementary goals are to contribute to: (i) increased
production and productivity in the agricultural sector; (ii) improved the



- 18 -
competitiveness of the sectort and (iii) increased agricultural exports. At
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the Government would implement
the project in accordance with the Supreme Decree and would not modify the
decree without the agreement of IDA (para. 4.01(a)).
3.13        The specific institutional objectives are tot
(a)   generate and adapt agricultural technologies!' that are
commercially and socially viable and that meet the needs of a
substantial proportion of the rural population;
(b)   transfer the technologies developed to the rural population,
principally through cooperation and collaboration with public and
private agencies or through direct contact with producers; and
(c)   promote generation of technology by other agencies in a manner
that reinforces complementarity and avoids duplication.
3.14     .   t 2 g h  n nn i r a                                         IBTA
3,14  Strnathenin  of Administration. PlanIn_  _an Management.*IT
would be completely restructured in the project according to the Supreme
Decree (para. 3.12). The new organization would be based on a horizontal
structure of commodity programs charged with -.he responsibility of producing
the new agricultural technologies and a vertical structure of spatially
centralized and decentralized services that provide overall management,
coordination and operational support to the commodity programs. The
directorial responsibilities would be concentrated within the Board of
Directors and the Office of the Director General, and responsibility for
execution within the Technical and Administrative Directorates. The latter
would be responsible for providing support for the activities of the former.
The executive responsibilities would be decentralized geographically through
the experimental stations and through the activities of the commodity
programs. Within this overall framework the organization comprises: (a) the
Board of Directors; (b) the Office of the Director General; (c) the Office of
the Technical Director which directs the commodity and special programs; and
(d) the Office of the Director of Administration which oversees general
support services, including personnel, accounting, purchasing, experimental
stations, etc. The detailed functions and organization of these individual
entities is described in detail in the working papers, and the overall
organizational structure is shown in Annex 3. The Technical Director would be
the main contact with IDA on all day-to-day project related affairs,
technical, administrative and financial matters. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that IBTA would maintain the Technical Director and the Director
of Administration for the duration of the project, unless otherwise agreed
with IDA (para. 4.01(f)).
3.15        IBTA would be directly responsible for implementing certain
aspects of its program, while some specific tasks would be subcontracted to
2/    Agricultural technology is used here to denote production, processing
and marketing technology.



- 19 -
other agencies such as the IBTN and CIFP. In these cases, IBTA would provide
partial financial support to the programs of the other agencies. The planning
of these delegated responsibilities would be coordinated by IBTA as an
integral part of its planning and control process. In addition, this project
would provide the basic infrastructure, administration and training for staff
in programs that would form an integral part of the overall IBTA technology
development efforts, but which would be jointly or parallel financed by other
agencies. The externally financed projects cotild complement the six major
commodity research areas already selected or would be new projects that would
have passed through the planning and approval procedures of IBTA and the
CNIKA.  These new programs would be expected to finance incremental costs for
the management, maintenance and support provided by the experimental stations
in which they carry out their work in order not to dilute the capacity of IBTA
by adding new tasks without provision of additional resources (para. 3.19).
At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that TBTA would not undertake any
new or incremental research activity, without specific provision being made in
the funding arrangement for financing the incremental costs of management,
maintenance, and support (para. 4.01(b)).
3.16        The Board of Directors would be the highest authority in IBTA.
Its members would be selected from the public and private sector and would
serve for periods of four years. The Board would formulate the overall
strategies and operational plans of the institute in accordance with the
overall policies and guidelines established by the CNIEA, including those of
all externally financed projects, and would present them to MACA for approval.
The Board would propose and present for approval of MACA, all major changes in
the structure of the Institute. The Board would appoint the Director General.
3.17        The Office of the Director General would be responsible for
ensuring that the strategies and plans approved by the Board of Directors are
implemented. It would directly supervise the Planning and Evaluation Unit,
the Communications Unit, the Technical Department, the Directorate for
Administration, Internal Auditing and the General Secretariat which includes
the Legal Department. The Office of the Technical Director and the Director
of Administration would be the executive arms of the organization
(para. 3.14).
3.18        The nlannint process would be broadly divided into strategic
planning and operational planning. The overall strategies and policies of
IBTA would be determined by the Board of Directors and the Office of the
Director General in consultation with the CNIEA and the Technical Department.
The Institutional Strategic Plan would be long term and as such should not be
subject to frequent major changes. On the other hand, it would need to
reflect changes in internal or external parameters that influence the
institute. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the Institutional
Strategic Plan of IBTA would be approved and published by September 30, 1991,
and that for the five-year major evaluation of IBTA, the Board of Dlrectors
would submit a revised strategic plan, not later than September 30, 1996, for
the following five years (para. 4.01(c)). One of the major functions of the
Institutional Strategic Plan would be to provide the guidelines for the
assignation of resources within the institute. The individual programs would
also produce strategic plans to fit into the overall strategic plans of the



- 20 -
institute. The individual program strategic plans would be developed in
conjunction with the Technical Committees established for each program. The
Technical Committees would include participation of individuals from the
public and private sector with knowledge and interest related to the specific
commodities. These strategic planning exercises would form the baois for the
development of the operational plans.
3.19        The operational plans, unlike the strategic plan, would be
produced on an annual basis. The individual commodity programs, in
consultation with the Office of the Technical Director, the Technical
Committees, and the support services (vertical structure of the organization)
would prepare their operational plans by June 30 of each year. The Director
of Administration would prepare operational plans for support services on the
basis of the requirements of the commodity programs. The Office of the
Technical Director would be responsible for consolidation of these operational
plans and their presentation to the Board of Directors, through the Office of
the Director General, for approval by October 30 of each year. Special
externally financed projects must also pass through this process of planning
and approval in order to confirm thieir relevance to the overall institutional
goals and also to ensure that they can be provided with the necessary support.
At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that IBTA would submit the draft
consolidated operational plan to IDA for approval by November 30 of each year
of the project (psra. 4.01(d)).
3.20        The Recruitment and Management of Personnel. The new organization
calls for a reduction of the total number of employees from over 500 to about
355, and radical changes in their responsibilities. The new staffing pattern
is shown in the appraisal mission detailed working cost paper and is
summarized in Annex 2. In the period from July 6 - October 10, 1990 staff
numbers were reduced by 39, and a further 40 by December 31, 1990. In the
initial startup of the project, the precise qualifications required for each
of the new positions would be determined. All staff, except the Director
General or those who have been recruited since August 1, 1989, through an open
exam with international scrutiny that is acceptable to IDA, would resign from
the institute at the time of reorganization. New staff would be recruited in
an open, transparent competitive exam, which would be overseen by an
independent panel of judges. Staff from the old IBTA would be free to apply
for positions in the new IBTA. This procedure was presented to a group of
IBTA staff in a small workshop held in La Paz, February 2-3, 1990, and was
found to be acceptable. A condition of effectiveness would be the hiring of
the leaders of the commodity programs (para. 4.02(c)).
3.21       The salary levels are low in IBTA.  Furthermore, there are large
differences in levels of remuneration of staff of the same level within IBTA
depending on the level of commercial sales from the particular experimental
station or nursery with which staff are associated and also on the amount of
"topping up" provided through special projects or programs. Under the new
reorganization there would be one salary scale for all IBTA employees. This
salary scale would be considerably higher on average than the present scale
and would be set so as to be in line with the market. Locally hired personnel
working in special projects within IBTA would be subject to conditions similar



- 21-
to those of the core programs and all "topping up" of salaries by external
agents will be prohibited.
3.22        All job categories would be covered by the new salary scale, and
these would be organized on an equivalency basis into individual salary
categories. In each of these categories there would be a salary ranges the
individual salary level would be based on a basic salary determined by the
salary scale, a component related to the individuals performance and special
qualifications, and a component related to the responsibilities. The salary
ranges for the individual categories would overlap so that excellent staff
could be well rewarded without necessarily being promoted into positions for
which they may not be qualified or competent.
3.23        The salary categories determine the relative levels of salaries
within the organization (Annex 4). The absolute salary levels would be
designed to be in line with the labor market, both public and private, and
would be reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that levels are competitive.
Under the present labor laws in Bolivia in the public sector, salaries are
limited to being no more than 15 times the maximum salary in the minimum
salary range, for the central administration. Under the public sector
management program certain positions can be declared "cargos criticos" and
salaries fixed according to the guidelines set out by the Ministry of Finance,
which is responsible for personnel management matters under the SAFCO law. In
order to attract people of the calibre required to manage a first class
research organization, the following positions should be declared as "cargos
criticos": the Director of IBTA and the Program Leaders, the Secretary of the
CNIEA. At negotiations, Government provided assurances that the "cargos
criticos" positions, acceptable to IDA, would be accepted and the new salary
scales would be adopted before effectiveness (para. 4.02(e)). An assurance
was also obtained at negotiations, that Government would annually review the
salary levels so as to attract and retain qualified staff and take all steps
necessary as reasonably recommended by IDA to change such salary scales as
deemed necessary (para. 4.01(k)).
3.24        A staff evaluation svstem would be established to, firstly, assess
the performance of staff and, secondly, to evaluate their potential. This
latter would be of particular importance for the selection of candidates for
further training.
3.25        Operations and Eauinment for Central Headquarters.  The project
would provide equipment of central headquarters and the support for salaries
of staff.
3.26        Technical Assistance.  A major limitation on the reorganization
process would be the lack of staff with experience in management of a vibrant
research agency. Technical assistance would be provided through a twinning
arrangement with a country which has a strong and effective agricultural
research program, in the areas of higher level administration and management
and research. The administrative and management component would comprise a
Senior Researcher, Senior Technology Transfer Specialist and a Senior



- 22 -
Administrator. The research component would be made up of three researchers,
one for each of the selected commodity programs to be financed directly by IDA
in the project. In addition, provision is made for short-term consultants
(totaling 26 man-months) to assist in setting up specific aspects of the
commodity research programs and specific project administration components
such as bookkeeping, computerization of management information systems and
management in general. A crucial element of technical assistance component
would be to provide support to IBTA during the early part of the project when
new IBTA staff still have little experience and when several key staff would
be absent for training.
3.27         Twinning arrangements have been found to be particularly
effective in projects such as this. Within the region twinning arrangement
possibilities exist with the Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) and the
Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA). The consultants would
require vehicles, personal computers and a small budget for operational
expenses. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that IBTA would enter
into a technical assistance arrangement with a research agency with overall
qualifications and under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 4.02(a)).
3.28        Strategic Studies.  IBTA would carry out two major studies and one
mid-term evaluation of the project. The first of the studies would be to
define the present extension systems operating in the country, and to make
recommandations on how they can be improved, and more effectively linked to
the technology development efforts.  This study would be carried out with the
assistance of consultants. It is recognized that technology development
without an effective technology transfer process would be inefficient in
providing benefits. On the other hand, technology generation is a long-term
process. The philosophy of this project is to get the technology development
process started quickly and to use the study to develop a transfer system that
would be implemented as the new technology comes on stream in the future. The
results of the study may form the basis for a future IDA credit for technology
transfer. The technology transfer study would be carried out in the first
year of the project.
3.29        The second major study would be on the research requirements for
the lowland tropical areas to provide guidance for the Board of Directors of
IBTA to define IBTA's strategies for this ecological region. The total cost
including contingency for these studies would be US$0.43 million. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that IBTA would hire consultants
satisfactory to IDA, to undertake the study on technology transfer by
December 31, 1991 and on the research requirements of the lowland tropical
areas by September 30, 1992, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(pars. 4.01(i)).
3.30        TraininQ.  The present staff of IBTA is not adequately qualified
to manage and implement a major program of technology development. The staff
of the CITP are on average better trained, but the total number is limited.
Through a comprehensive training program the project would increase the level
of qualifications of its staff, and maintain this level through its new
policies of remuneration and human resource management. The main emphasis



- 23 -
would be on higher degree training for research staff, study leaves for more
senior researchers and shorter training courses for management, administrative
staff and technicians.
3.31        The degree training prograsm is designed to minimize disruption to
the ongoing research program (Annex 5). The training would be phased so that
a nucleus of staff would always be present in the programs. Furthermore,
cofinancing would be sought for a partnership with an external research agency
to obtain expatriate researchers to fill the gaps during the training periods
(paras. 3.26, 3.27). In addition to filling the gaps, the expatriates would
play an on-the-job training role by aiding and assisting the new IBTA staff in
program development. The degree training program would concentrate on MSc
level training in the first years. When these trainees begin to return the
emphasis would be on sending the more experienced and capable staff for PhD
training. The selection of candidates for the degree training program would
be closely coordinated with the evaluation process for recruiting and
subsequent evaluation of performance (para. 3.24).
3.32        The project would provide support for training of central
headquarters staff, research staff and staff in the services and support
units. The research training would provide a total of 8 PhDs and 21 MScs, and
additional short-term specialized courses. Those trained to the level of PhD
would be expected to return to IBTA (or to work in the CIFP subcontracted
programs) as the program leaders and the MSc staff as researchers within the
program. IBTA would set up a mechanism whereby those who receive support to
obtain postgraduate degrees would be required to serve the IBTA for a period
double the length of the training period. At negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that IBTA would put into effect a policy requiring that employees
receiving training under the program for MSc, and PhD would provide two months
of service for each month of training received (para. 4.01(j)).
3.33        The Commodity Programs. Under the project, IBTA would initially
focus efforts on six commodity programs. This would narrow IBTA's present
program which included research on more than 20 crop and livestock
enterprises, so as to ensure that each program reaches a critical mass and has
sufficient resources to make an impact. Key criteria used for the selection
of the programs vere: total cultivated area, total and per unit value of
production, number of producers, importance in the Altiplano and Valles,
availability of technology that can be adapted to local conditions,
probability of obtaining major impact, and present capacity in IBTA and other
agencies to implement a program.
3.34      The individual commodity and the special research programs would be
led by program leaders who would have a critical mass of professional staff to
assist them. The commodity program leaders would be responsible for ensuring
that their programs develop agricultural production, processing and marketing
technology that meets the overall institute's goals. The IBTA would test the
technology it generates in pilot projects on a semi-commercial basis with the
technology being managed by producers, processors and marketers themselves.
IBTA would observe the performance of the technology under these conditions
and use the information for feedback to direct future research efforts. This
process requires that IBTA be directly involved, in collaboration with other



- 24 -
technology transfer agencies, in the technology transfer process to at least a
small number of farmers. Furthermore, this transfer process should give added
insight into how the efficiency of the transfer process can be improved. Each
of the programs has resources for this technology transfer process. The IBTA
is not, however, directly charged with the responsibility for technology
transfer. Rather IBTA would provide the existing extension agencies, such as
the NGOs with the information that they require to tr.ansfer the technology.
3.35       For the purposes of carrying out specific project-funded
activities, IBTA would enter into contractual arrangements, on terms
satisfactory to IDA, with other participating entities such as CIPP and IBTN.
IBTA would provide assurance thats (a) terms and conditions of such
contractual arrangements would include annual work plans and guidelines for
execution, targets and procedures including funding and reporting; and (b) it
would ensure that each agency submits semiannual reports for inclusion in the
reports that IBTA is obliged to send to IDA. A condition of effectiveness of
the credit would be that contractual arrangements between IBTA and CIFP,
satisfactory to IDA, have been signed (para. 4.02(b)).
3.36      Each of the commodity programs would focus on four major areas:
genetic improvement, crop management, special studies, and field verification
and adaptation. The potato program, which is already well established, has a
slightly different structure, but in general principle follows the same
pattern as that proposed for the other commodities.
3.37      Genetic imorovement activities would be directed towards the
development of varieties (breeds). The basis of the programs would be the use
of imported and local germplasm, either for direct selection or to be included
in breeding programs. Breeding and selection would focus on such
characteristics as tolerance to diseases, pests and natural stress conditions,
such as, frost and drought, yielding ability under farmer management, and
consumer acceptance.
3.38      CroD management would be concerned with developing individual
management components and combining them into viable production packages
suitable for the producers and adapted to their social and economic
circumstances. A wide range of management practices including fertility
maintenance, crop protection, land preparation and general cultural practices
would be covered. It would be the responsibility of those working in crop
management to show how the new tecenology developed can be fitted into the
overall farming systems.
3.39      Special studies would be directed to ensuring that the technology
provides products which are both acceptable to the consumer (either on-farm or
for sale) and that are in demand. Studies will focus on the demand and
consumer preferences for the commodities and the various subproducts that can
be obtained by processing them. This information would be utilized both
directly by the breeders and crop management specialists to guide their
research and also by the special studies group to guide their research on
postharvest processing and handling.



- 25 -
3.40      Field verification and adaptation provides the critical link
between the farmer and the researcher, and the path for feedback on the
progress being made in more basic research. The initial activities vill be to
collect baseline data on the specific commodities through surveys. This
information should provide insights into the problems faced by the producers
and help to define overall research priorities. Furthermore, the existence of
baseline data would in the future provide the initial data for evaluating the
impact of the research programs.
3.41      As new technology is generated it would be tested and adapted to
local conditions by this group at the farm or village level, with the active
participation of local producers and processors in the design, implementation
and interpretation of the trials. In the case of processing technology, the
group may assist in the establishment of pilot plants, which once proven to be
successful, can be used as training sites for those interested in developing
the technology.
3.42      Potato.  This is a major crop in Bolivia in terms of area planted
and total production. Potatoes are grown by small farmers in the highland3
but it is of major importance in the diet throughout Bolivia, providing energy
in the form of carbohydrates and significant amounts of good quality protein.
Yields of potato at less than 6 ton/ha are low and a priori improvements in
productivity should be possible. The proposed project would support potato
research through the general institutional assistance being provided to IBTA,
but financing of the potato program and Toralapa station operations would be
supported under parallel financing from COTESU and CIP, expected to amount to
about US$3.5 million.
3.43      Maize is the most important crop in Bolivia in terms of area
planted. It appears possible to increase yield with a concerted research
effort. Under the project, CIPP efforts would be strengthened and linked to
IBTA's program. CIFP would be subcontracted by TBTA for the implementation of
a major part of the core research program, with IBTA taking major
responsibility for the adaptive research. The project would provide
laboratory equipment, farm machinery and two vehicles for CIFP, but no other
investment costs as CIFP is already well equipped. The total cost including
contingency would be US$0.89 million plus a further 0.24 million for contract
research by CIPP.
3.44      Sheep numbers are estimated at 8 million and cameloids (llamas,
alpacas, vicuMas and guanacos) at 1.5 - 2.5 million. These are almost
exclusively owned by poor herders in the highland areas, and provide
them with their major source of income. Production is based on grazing of
unimproved native pastures with little pasture management. Research is
minimal in this area. However, the export market for high quality llama and
alpaca wool appears to be promising, and an analysis of the industry done in
conjunction with the preparation of the ADP project suggests that technical
and social improvement could lead to substantially greater profits by the
herders. Under the project, IBTA would establish a research program on sheep
and cameloids that would include the all important aspects of pasture
production and processing of wool and fibers. The research program for this
part of IBTA's program may be partially financed by the IFAD livestock program



- 26 -
for the Andean zone and the United States Small Ruminant CRSP. The estimated
cost of this component of the project would be about US$2.9 million.
3.45      Ouinoa is exclusively grown in the highlands.  Its resistance to
frost, drought and salinity allows it to be grown under extremely harsh
conditions, where farmers have few other viable alternatives. Both internal
and export markets for quinoa show promise. The quinoa program would be
strengthened under the project, with the project supporting the incremental
project staff costs, operational research and somicommercial testing, as well
as subcontracting part of the research to IBTN. The total cost of the quinoa
research program would be US$2.8 million.
3.46      Faba beans and peas are grown throughout the highlands although
official estimates of area planted probably do not reflect their true
importance. The grain legumes have two vital roles to play in highland
agriculture. Firstly, they are one of the few "protuin" sources for the
population of the area. Secondly, their ability to fix nitrogen makes them of
critical importance in the rotations used to maintain fertility in a country
where fertilizer use is minimal, particularly in the highlands. Research on
these crops has been minimal. The project would be phased to start in earnest
in Year 3 as there is little to build on at present. Both CIFP and IBTA would
be involved in the project with overall coordination under the control of IBTA
which would contract CIFP for certain aspects of the research related to plant
improvement. The total cost of the bean research program is US$2.0 million
with a further US$93,000 for contract research with CIFP.
3.47      Small grains (e.g., wheat, barley and oats) are grown mainly in the
highlands of Bolivia. Wheat is important for food, and barley for the malting
industry. Until recently oats were grown mainly as a green forage, hut new
grain varieties developed by IBTA, have increased its importance as a food
crop. Yields of the small grains are generally low by world standards and
potential for improvement, good. CIUP has been doing limited plant breeding
on the durum wheats: IBTA would lead and coordinate the overall activities on
small grains, but could, at its discretion, contract CIPP to continue durum
wheat improvement. The small grains program would be supported at a project
cost of US$2.5 million.
3.48      Svecial Research Proarams.  Approximately 4S of the research budget
would be set aside for exploratory research, amounting to US$0.55 million over
the project period. The special research program would be expected to
identify new potential areas of research for IBTA and develop a portfolio of
possible special projects that could be presented to donors. In this manner,
it is expected that IBTA could capture funds on a more rational basis than at
present.
3.49      Support Services and Exoerimental Stations.  Each commodity program
would be centered on a research station, and would have access to facilities
at other substations with different ecological conditions. The main IBTA
stations are Patacamaya, San Benito, and Toralapa. The CIFP has its own
station in Cochabamba. The IBTA managed substations would be Ulla Ulla,
Iscayachi and Chinoli. In addition, IBTA staff would be posted to stations
managed by the Regional Development Corporations or other agencies so as to



- 27 -
obtain a vide range of geographical and ecological coverage. Patacamaya would
be the main station for work on quinoa and cameloids, sheep and pastures; San
Benito would be the main station for work on small grains and grain legumes;
and Toralapa would be the main potato station. The corn program would be
based on the CIPP center. The potato and small grains programs would also
utilize the Patacamaya station. The Ulla Ulla substation would be for
pastures and livestock work; and the Iscayachi and Chinoli substations for
potatoes, small grains, quinoa, livestock and pastures and legumes. The
stations do not require major infrastructure development and no new stations
are envisaged under the project; the number would in fact be reduced. Project
funds would be used to renovate the existing station infrastructure and to add
a small number of essential components. Much of the testing of technology
would be off-station. This indicates the necessity of effective means for the
researchers and technology transfer personnel to get to the field, hence the
vehicle pool would be completely renewed at the initiation of the project and
in the fifth year (road infrastructure in the highlands is extremely poor and
vehicles effectively have to be written off in four to five years even when
maintenance is good).
3.50      The administration of the IBTA research stations would be handled
by a division, under the Director of Administration, led by the Head of
Research Stations. The administration of the stations and substations would
be the responsibility of the individual Station Chief who would provide the
services required by the commodity programs. The Station Chief would report
directly to the Head of Station, both in the case of the substations and the
main station. The Station Chief would be assisted by support staff including
an administrative head responsible for personnel administration, finances,
maintenance and general services. Each station would have its assigned budget
under control of the station manager for providing services and each commodity
would have its own budget for its specific progrsm in the stations.
Proiect Ortanization and Implementation
3.51      The IDA credit would be made to the GOB which would make a
subsidiary agreement with IBTA for the technology development component of the
project. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the subsidiary
agreement would be signed as a condition of effectiveness of the credit
(para. 4.02(d)). Assurances were also obtained that: (i) the Government
provide, as needed, funds and the resources for project implementation;
(ii) beginning January 1, 1992, a ratio of about 65:35 between personnel and
operational costs would be maintained; and (iii) Government's share of
incremental recurrent costs would commence at 1OZ in Year 4 and increase to
652 by Year 7 (para. 4.01(g)).
3.52      Proaress Reportint.  The Technical Director would prepare and send
to IDA progress reports on the items and activities outlined in the
operational plan and budget. The report, covering the period January 1-
December 31 would be sent to IDA by March 31 of the following year starting
March 31, 1992. It would present project progress in quantitative form
through key indicators. In addition to providing the quantitative information
of progress during the year, it would provide a descriptive and analytical
account of the program achievements and problems encountered in the previous



- 28 -
years work. It would also include copies of any special studies carried out
in the previous year. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that IBTA
would submit annual progress reports to IDA by March 31 of each year starting
March 31, 1992, and that by no later than June 30, 1993, an indepth review
vould be undertaken by the Borrower and IDA of the progress under the project
in implementing the organizational and procedural measures to be undertaken
and monitored through key indicators (para. 4.01(e)). The key indicators
which would be reported on in the annual progress report (such as completion
of training, vacancy factors, and extension linkages) are set out in Annex 6.
3.53      The Chief of the MACA Research and Extension Division would be
responsible for the management of the CNIEA component of the project. The
Chief would submit operational plans, reports etc., according to the
guidelines for the technology development component to the Technical Director
of IBTA for inclusion in the reports to be sent to IDA. The accounts for the
research and technology transfer coordination component would be kept by IBTA.
3.54      Mid-Term Evaluation.  In the fifth year of the project a major
external review of the IBTA program would be carried out with consultants.
This review would pay particular attention to evaluation of progress and also
to the means of financing the IBTA when IDA credit ends. The present
philosophy is that IBTA must establish its credentials as a first rate
technology development institute. Once this has been achieved then its
credibility as an institution should be sufficient to ensure that it continues
to receive adequate national and international financing for effective
operation. However, other possibilities for long-term stability of funding,
such as the establishment of an endowment fund, would also be explored. The
project would support the mid-term evaluation total cost ($0.2 million). At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that by September 30, 1994, IBTA would
recruit consultants with qualifications and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA to undertake a mid-term review of IBTA's programs and
performance, and to submit such report to IDA no later than September 30,
1996, and thereafter, implement such recomendations for improvement as shall
have been approved by IDA (paras. 4.01(c), 4.01(h)).
Project Costs
3.55      The total costs of setting up and operating IBTA and the CNIEA,
including physical and price contingencies, are estimated at US$34.7 million
equivalent. Projection of the appraisal mission's estimate of the present
IBTA expenditure on technology development are US$4.95 million over the seven-
year project. Hence, the total incremental project costs of IBTA and the
CNIZA, including contingencies and price adjustments, are estimated at
US$29.76 million. Details are given in Asnex 1 and the working papers on
Detailed Cost Tables. Project baseline costs for the seven-year project are
estimated to be US$24.37 million, including US$0.35 million in local taxes.
The foreign exchange portion of the project is estimated at about 49X of the
total base cost or US$11.92 million. During implementation inflation has been
estimated at the annual rate of 151 for local and 41 for foreign costs.
Physical contingencies have been calculated as 15S of the base costs on
equipment and infrastructure due to uncertainties in the exact quantity of
work to be carried out and the need to define the precise specifications of



- 29 -
equipment. Vehicles are more precisely defined and physical price
contingencies are reduced to 5X. On this basis, physical and price
contingencies have been estimated at US$5.4 million.
Financing Plan
3.56      The proposed IDA credit of US$21 million would finance about 70S of
the estimated cost of the IBTA and CNIEA programs. The remaining financing
for the project (301) would come from the Government of Bolivia (US$5.3
million) and Swiss Technical Cooperation (US$3.5 million), although it is
expected that considerable additional cofinancing through bilateral grants
will be forthcoming during the project once IBTA has reorganized and put in
place the essential features of the project designed to improve its
credibility as a research organization. The Swiss Technical Cooperation
(COTESU) has confirmed its support for the potato program and operations at
Toralaps (see wvrking papers) at a total cost estimated at appraisal to be
US$3.5 million equivalent. The credit would finance 942 of the foreign
exchange costs, and 502 of local costs. The Government of Bolivia would be
the Borrower and a portion of the proceeds of the credit would be made
available to IBTA as a grant through a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to
IDA, in accordance with the amounts and timetables specified in the annual
operational plans (para. 4.01(n)). As described in para. 3.51, Government
would be reponsible for financing an increasing share of the incremental
recurrent costs of the project proceeds, and for ensuring that a balance
between personnel and operational costs is maintained of about 65:35.
Procurement
3.57.       The major items to be procured, the estimated amounts to be spent
and the method of procurement would be as follows: (i) civil works, mainly
new building construction (US$0.9 million) and renovation (US$0.5 million).
Because of the widely dispersed nature of the individual civil works and their
relatively small size, it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be
interested in participating in bidding for contracts not exceeding US$0.5
million. Contracts above this level would be through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), in the unlikely case of this occurring. Hence
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA, would almost
certainly be used for civil works construction. Civil works contracts
estimated to cost individually less than US$25,000 equivalent, but in
aggre8ate not to exceed US$500,000 would be awarded on the basis of price
quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors; (ii) vehicles
and equiiment: estimated to cost a total of about US$3.2 million would be
awarded through ICB when the total cost is estimated above US$200,000 and
through LCB, following procedures acceptable to IDA, when the cost is
estimated at between US$25,000 and US$200,000. Minor items valued at less
than US$25,000 each, and in aggregate not to exceed US$300,000, would be
purchased by the executing agency on the basis of the price quotations from at
least three eligible local or foreign suppliers; and (v) consultants will be
hired in accordance with IDA guidelines. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained thats (i) the Government and IBTA would follow the procurement
procedures outlined above and prepare standard bidding documents on the basis
of IDA sample bidding documents; and (ii) the IBTA would submit to IDA for



- 30 -
review and approval, before bids are invited and contracts awarded, all
procurement documentation for ICB where contracts are above US$200,000
equivalent for goods and those civil works contracts above US$500,000. In
addition the first two contracts for goods and civil works, irrespective of
their amounts, would be reviewed by IDA before being awarded (para. 4.01(1)).
PIUIIWo As2A15031
(08 tilo s)
ICB Procur.snt  LCI PTosAremnt  Otht Procure~mnt  total Procurement
Total  MD   Otber  Ttatl    MD  Total    IDA    Otber  Ttotl    IDA    Other
Infrs truture                1.0  (1.0)  0.5  (0.3)  0.2    1.3  (1.3)  0.2
Tranidg                                  1.9,    (2.4)  0.3  2.  (2.6)  0.3
T.b.U., A*G"t=G*              3.6    ~~~~~~~(3.8)  3.8 $)  ..
V cle    4quipmt  1.6  (1.6)  1.6    (1.6)  0.3     0.3     3.3  3.2)    0.3
Ote                                      0.0   0.)  0.1     0.8  (0.6)  0.2
Increasnal Coete 1a.3                         9o5)  7.8    17.3  (9.5)  7.8
TOtAL         1.6  (1.6)     2.6  (2.6)  23.6    (16.S)  .S  29.8    (21.0)  8.8
The Saes *Und for TSebacial Cogeration wuld fnne US$0.2 illio of civil works. US$0.3 mllion of vehildes and equipment,
VS$0.3 ml1Ion of treinig and $2.7 million of i=crementel operting costs.
Gowerent would finane US$0.2 million of othet invetents ad US$3.1 of nremental operating cost.
Disbursements
3.58     The proposed IDA credit of US$21 million would be disbursed over
7.5 years in accordance with the standard profile taking into account the
retroactive funding from January 1, 1991 for project startup. All
disbursements for contracts for goods valued at less than US$200,000 and for
civil works valued at less than US$500,000 will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures. Documentation for these expenditures will not be
sent to IDA but will be retained by ZBTA and will be subject to periodic
review by IDA staff. All other disbursements will be fully documented.
Retroactive financing for up to US$800,000 (4% of the credit) for expenses
made from January 1, 1991, would be permitted for expenses incurred in
initiating the project. The completion date for the project would be seven
years after signing the credit agreement and the closing date one year later.
3.59       IDA would deposit an initial US$1.0 million in the Special
Account upon effectiveness. Subsequent replenishment by IDA would follow
normal IDA procedures.
3.60     Accounts and Audits.  IBTA would maintain its accounts in such a
manner that the use of project funds can be clearly identified. The IBTA
accounts are audited by the official government auditor. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that the accounts of IBTA and CNIEA would be audited on
an annual basis by an independent auditing agency, acceptable to IDA, and that
the audit reports, including that of the Special Account, would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 4.01(m)).
Pro1ect Benefits and Justification
3.61     The economic rates of return from well organized individual
agricultural technology development projects are variable, depending on the
successful adoption of improved technology by the intended beneficiaries. In
this project a basket of individual programs are supported, thus spreading the
risks. In general, the aggregate returns from such agricultural technology



- 31 -
development projects are high. To give an idea of the potential benefits a
few possible scenarios are given. The costs to the farmer of using a new
(non-hybrid or vegetatively produced) variety are negligible, once he has
obtained his initial seed stock. All costs are essentially borne by the
agency that develops the new variety or line. In this case the costs would be
borne by the project. The following crude estimates assume a 10 yield
increase in individual crops due to improved varieties with no increase in
area planted. Also, it is assumed that with increasing population in Bolivia,
a 102 increase in production would not lead to a decrease in price of the
commodity in question (if prices do drop as production increases, benefits
will still be obtained but will be progressively skewed towards consumers).
The annual gross value of increased production at the farmgate would then be
of the order of US$4 million for potato, US$5 million for maize, US$500,000
for quinoa, US$1 million for barley, and US$1 million for Faba beaus. If the
assumptions are changed and it is assumed that utilizable yields could be
improved by 201 through improved crop management, and postharvest handling and
that the costs borne by the producers of obtaining the increase are 502 of
incremental production, then the net value of the increased production from
the farmers viewpoint is the same as that obtained in the examples given
above. These examples indicate that with the rather conservative estimates of
possible increases in productivity, the potential benefits are high and that
if only one or two programs are successful, the benefits are large as compared
with the investment. Studies in other countries indicate that the economic
rates of return from agricultural research are particularly high when the
current level of technology is relatively low, this is certainly the case of
the commodities that are the subject of this project.
Role of Women
3.62      The traditional crops and livestock enterprises, which are the
focus of this project, are produced by both men and women. But women
generally have the dominant role in the production process once the land is
prepared. In the case of sheep and cameloids, women almost exclusively tend
the animals and likewise women are primarily responsible for processing the
wool and fibers which constitute the major source of cash income for the
family. As such, the technology to be developed under the project would need
to be tailored to the speciAl role women play in the highlands of Bolivia.
Environmental Imnact
3.63      The project is considered environmentally benign.  Good husbandry
is part and parcel of good agricultural technology and husbandry indeed
signifies, among other things, "the control or judicious use of resources".
The emphasis of this project would be on such aspects as varietal resistance
and biological control of diseases and pests which obviate the need for heavy
use of toxic agrochemicals. Furthermore, improved management of pastures and
crops in the Altiplano could help prevent wind erosion, which is a major
problem in the Altiplano.



- 32 -
Project Risks
3.64      The project risks can be divided into those normally associated
with researcl¶ projects and those specific to this case. The basket of
programs In zhe project spreads the normal risk associated with individual
research prjgrams. Furthermore, the planning and evaluation processes built
into the project design should allow a flexible approach to resolving
unexpected problems in the development of technology. One of the common
failings of agricultural research programs is that they produce technological
packages that are techbically sound but that are not socially or economically
viable in the environment of the producers, processors, marketing agents or
consumers. The project has been designed to include an essential component of
technology testing and adaptation to minimize the risk of generating
technology that does not meet producers' needs. A further risk is that of the
transfer process not being effective. The special study and the coordinating
role of the CNIEA should provide information on how to ensure that producers
are aware of the new technology and give insights into deficiencies that need
to be corrected. The pilot approach to technology testing would also involve
technology transfer and should give further insights on how the process can be
improved.
3.65      A major uncertainty in this project is the capacity of IBTA and the
CMIlA to execute and manage a program of this *agnitude.  The design of the
project includes considerable assistance to project staff by international
advisers and consultants to obviate this problem.
3.66      The project involves a reduction in the scope of IBTA's activities,
a reduction in personnel and a decrease in the number of research stations.
This may be politically onerous to achieve and considerable political
fortitude and will is required to carry out these measures.
IV. AGREEMWNTS REACHED
4.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Borrower on
the following:
(a) The Government would implement the project in accordance with the
Ministerial Decrees for the formation of the CNIEA and the new IBTA
and would not modify the Decrees without the agreement of TDA
(pares. 3.08, 3.12);
(b) IBTA would not undertake any new or incremental research activity,
without specific provision being made in the funding arrangement
for financing the incremental costs of management, maintenance, and
support, that would be acceptable to IDA (para. 3.15);
(c) The Institutional Strategic Plan of IBTA would be approved and
published by September 30, 1991. Following the five-year major
evaluation of IBTA, and not later than September 30, 1996, the



- 33 -
Board of Directors would submit for IDA approval, a revised
strategic plan for the following five years (paras. 3.18, 3.54);
(d) IBTA would submit Annual Consolidated Operational Plans to IDA for
approval by November 30 of each year of the project (para. 3.19);
(e) IBTA would submit annual progress reports to IDA by March 31 each
year starting March 31, 1992, which would report in quantitative
form and through key indicators, satisfactory to IDA, on the
achievements during the past year. By no later than June 30, 1993,
the Borrower and IDA would carry out an indepth review of the
progress under the project in implementing the organizational and
procedural measures (para. 3.52);
(f) IBTA would retain a Technical Director and Director of
Administration with qualifications satisfactory to IDA, for the
duration of the project (para. 3.14);
(g) The GOB would assure the provision of counterpart funds for project
implementation and beginning January 1, 1992, maintain a ratio
about 65:35 between personnel costs and operational expenses and
Government's increasing share of incremental recurrent costs of the
project, commencing at 10% in Year 4 and increasing to 65? by Year
7 (para. 3.51);
(h) By September 30, 1994, IBTA would recruit consultants with
qualifications and under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
to undertake a mid-term review of IBTh's programs, performance and
means to ensure the stability of the Institute and submit such
report to IDA by no later than September 30, 1996 and thereafter,
implement such recommendations for the implementation as would be
mutually be agreed upon between IBTA and IDA (para. 3.54);
(i)  IBTA would hire consultants satisfactory to IDA, to undertake the
study on technology transfer by December 31, 1991, and for research
requirements in the lowlands by September 30, 1992, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.29);
tj) IBTA would develop and enter into contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to IDA, which would bind employees, receiving training
under the program for MSc and PhD, to provide not less than two
months of service to IBTA for each month of training received,
before sending any employee (para. 3.32);
(k) Government would annually review the salary scales of IBTA and
CNIA staff so a. to attract and retain qualified staff and to take
such steps as IDA shall reasonably request to change such scales as
deemed necessary (para. 3.23);
(1) The first two contracts for goods and civil works, irrespective of
their amounts, would be subject to review by IDA before being
awarded (para. 3.57);



- 34 -
(m) The accounts of IBTA and CNIEA would be audited on an annual basis
by an independent auditing agency, acceptable to IDA, and that the
audit reports, including those for the Special Account, would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 3.60); and
(n)  The Government and IBTA vould enter into a subsidiary agreement for
the transfer of the proceeds of the credit to IDA and the execution
by IBTA of its part of the projeat (para. 3.56).
4.02      Conditions of Effectiveness of the credit would be:
(a)  I8TA would enter into a technical assistance arrangement,
satisfactory to IDA, with another research agency, with
qualifications and under terms acceptable to IDA, to provide both
institutional and research program assistance (para. 3.27);
(b)  IBTA would enter into a contractual agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
with CTYP to carry out research on corn and grain legumes (para.
3.35);
(c)  IBTA would hire the program leaders (para. 3.20);
(d) The GOB and IBTA would enter into the subsidiary agreement for the
technology development component of the project (para. 3.51); and
(e)  The GOB shall have implemented the new salary scales for IBTA and
CNIIEA, including the positions specified as "cargos criticos"
(para. 3.23).
Recommndailion
4.03      Subject to the above agreements and assurances, the proposed
project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit to the Republic of Bolivia
for SDR 15 million (US$21 million equivalent).
Cs\W1k1\UL\*ut.*w Wt 3\91



Bolivia
Agricultural Technology Developmnt Project
Appraisal Cost Estimates
Project Cost S_mary
Be Millions                    US1  Millions               S Total
-   - --X-    X Forotpn  Base
Local  Foreign    Total        Local Foreign    Total    Exchange    Costs
A. Research Progras
1. Potato Program               4.62      2.63      7.16        1.48    0.77    2.20         86.40      9.03
2. Cereals Program              8.78      2.77      6.66        1.17    0.86    2.01         42,28      b.27
8. Livestock Program            6.00      2.86      7.66        1.S6     0.81    2.36        84.00      9.60
4. Qulno. Program               4.70      2.09      7.40        1.46    0.82    2.28         B8,40      9.34
6. Legume Program               2.89      2.61      6.40        0.89    0.7       1.88       46.47      8.82
8. Maixe Program                 1.30     1.00      2.86        0.40    0.82    0.72         44.90      2.97
Sub-Total                          22.29    14.20    80.60         6.89    4.34    11.23        88.92    48.08
B. Stations and Substations
1. Patacamaya Main Station      4.00      2.83      8.83        1.23    0.87      2.10       41.41      0.63
2. San Bonito Main Station      2.84      2.01      4.86        0.68    0.62      1.49       41.38      6.12
3. Toralapa Main Station         3.00     1.61      4.60        0.92     0.48     1.38       33.46      6.88
4. Three Substations            4.44      2.89      7.34        1.37     0.89     2.28        39.43     9.27
6. Lowlands Stations            1.12      0.41      1.63        0.36    0.12    0.47         28.64      1.93
Sub-Total                          16.41     9.64    2S.06         4.7S     2.98    7.71         38.49    31.63
C. IOTA Headquarters               12.84    13.69    26.44         3.99     4.15     8.13        61.42    33.36
D. Institution Building
1. CNIEA                         1.57     0.43      2.00        0.48     0.13     0.61        21.64     2.62
2. Specil Studies                0.67     0.76      1.33        0.18    0.23    0.41          66.78     1.67
3. Mid-term Evaluation          0.11      0.38      G,A9        0.03     0.12    0.16         78.77     0.02
Sub-Total                           2.25      1.68      8.81       0.69    0.48      1.17        40.90     4.81
E. Without Proj.Staff Costs       -12.80     O.00   -12.60        -3.88    0.00   -3.88           0.00   -16.91
Total BASSENE COSTS                40.20     39.00    79.20       12.46   11.92    24.37          0.00   100."0
Physical Contingencies           0.64      0.98      1.60       0.17     0.30    0.46         63.90     1.90
Price Contingencies             30.86     19.83    60.18        3.22     1.71    4.93         34.81     20.28
Total PROJECTS COSTS               71.59    S9.29   130.08        16.84    13.92   29.78         48.78   122.13
Values Scaled by 1900.0 - 8/8/1990 13:39



Boll via
Agricultural Technology Development Project
Appraisal Cost Estimates
Sumary Accounts by Year
Totals Xnclud)ng Contingencies
USS Millions
91     92      93      94      96      98      97  Total
Z. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Training                       0.35   0.76   0.76   0.46    0.23   0.20   0.13   2.90
B. Techntcal Assistance           0.98   0.76   0.80    0.70   0.47   0.06   0.06   3.79
C. Infrastructure
1. New Infrastructure          1.04    0.26    O.00   0.06    0.00   6.00    6.60   1.30
2. Existing Infrastructure     0.14   0.06    6.06   0.00   6.00   0.06    0.00   0.17
Sub-Total                          1.18   0.29   O.60    6.00   0.08    0.00   0.00    1.47
D. Equipment and Vehicles
1. Equipment                   0.93   0.14  * 0.07   0.09   0.14    0.07   0.00    1.44
2. Vehicles                     1.12   0.00   0.06    9.00   6.00   0.93   0.00   2.06
Sub-Total                          2.06   0.14   0.07   0.09   0.14    1.00   0.00   3.49
E. Other Investment Costa         0.27    0.09   0.08   0.08   0.09   0.12    0.10    0.83
Total INYESTYENT COSTS             4.83   2.03   1.69   1.38   0.93   1.386   0.20   12.48
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Total Staff Costa               1.49   1.80   2.00   2.06   2.30   2.48   2.87   14.81
8. Without Proj.Staff Costa       -0.60   -0.62  -0.66   -0.69  -0.74  -0.79  -0.86  -4.9S
C. Inere.. Operating Costs         0.76   0.80   0.93   1.03   1.21    1.80    1.39   7.42
Total RECURRENT COSTS              1.64    1.98   2.28   2.40   2.77   2.99   3.21   17.28
Total PROJECT COSTS                6.47   4.01   3.97   8.76   3.71   4.38   3.49  29.78
Values Scaled by 1008.0 3/8/1990  13:41
IF!1



Bolivia
Agricultural Technology Development Project
Appraisal Cost Estimates
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
BS Millions                     US3 Millions                  X Total
-    -~ - - -~- -  --- ------ -    - X Forelin  Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Traninng                           1.11      7.18      8.28        0.84      2.20     2.64        88.02      10.43
B. Technical Assistance               1.41      9.61     11.02        0.43      2.96     3.39        87.a       13.91
C. Infrastructure
1. New Infrastructure             2.23       1.20      8.42        0.88     0.87      1.06        34.90      4.32
2. Existing Infrastruct4re        0.38       0.11      0.44        0.10     0.03      0.14        24.92      0.68
Sub-Total                             2.68      1.31      3.87        0.79      0.40     1.19        33.78       4.88
D. Equipment and Vehicles
1. Equipment                      0.80       2.93      3.73        0.25     0.90      1.15        78.68      4.71
2. Vehicles                       0.67       4.94      5.61        0.17     1.62      1.70        89.74      8.96
Sub-Total                             1.36      7.88      9.24        0.42      2.43     2.84        85.23      11.67
E. Other Investment Costs             1.19      1.10      2.30        0.37      0.33     0.71        48.01       2.90
-    ---- --- -------------- - _------ -- -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                7.63     27.05     34.68        2.36      8.32    10.87        78.00      48.79
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Total Staff Costs                 81.77      6.18     87.96        9.88      1.82    11.88        18.27      47.92
8. Without Proj .Staff Costs        -12.60      0.00    -12.80       -3.88      9.00    -3.88         0.09    -16.91
C. Increo. Operating Costs           18.49      6.77     19.16        4.12      1.78     6.90        30.12      24.20
Total RECURRENT COSTS                82.67     11.96     44.52       10.19      3.60    13.70        26.84      58.21
Total BASELINE COSTS                40.20      39.00     79.20       12.46    11.92    24.37         48.92    100.00
Physical Contingencies            0.64       0.96      1.50        0.17      0.30     0.48        63.96       1.90
Price Contingencies               30.856    i.33      59.18        3.22      1.71     4.93        84.61      20.23
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 71.59     59.29    180.88       15.84    13.92    29.78         48.78    122.13
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   3/8/1999  18:42
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@>
0_



ANNEXC 2
-38-                                Table 1
BOLIVIA
AGRICMUL    AL TECHNOLOGY DEMLOPMEW? PROJECT
FeW ReSsarch SW by PrWm  And YO (Owluin sea &din w* at NO).
YEARS             0t1#  93 94 95 90 97           91 92 03 94   93 96P
POTATO                               CEREALS
SniwRR".         0 0 0 1 2 22 2                     O O   a O11 2
Ausoa ROL           5  60         4  4  4        2  t  1  2  4 6  6
Reeoh At          7 7 6 0 0     9    4 0 7 7 7 7 7
Technien ii3 3 333333                            0 2 2 2 22 2
Technicbn1        2 2    2 22 2                  2 2 2 2   2 2
Admir v            1  2  2  2  2  2  2           1  2  2  2  2  2  2
ceFrMe            4   0  0  0  0  0  0           4   0 0   0  S   f  0
WodwA             14 14  14 14  14  14  14       9 0    9  9  9  9  9
MAIZN lirA                            MAIM PAIJUMANI
SnrRFts0 0 0 0 0 0 0 O    2 a 2 2 2  2 2
A$SoctRRee         1 1  1 1 1  1                 11112 4 4
Res-aleh AsL      3 3 3 3  3 33                  0 0 0 0 0 0 0
TehllanU           0 0 0 0 0 0 0                 1  1    1   11 1
Technc  I         a  o   o  o  o  o              2 0  0  0      2  2  2
AdMWUveo  0  0 0 000                             2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Foremen           00 0 0 0 0     0    2 2 2 2 2a2 2
Works              6 5      5     5 66           0 0        0  6  0 a  0 
MAIZE TOTAL                              UVESTOW C
Serldr Res.       2  2  2  2  2 22               I1     1  2  2  2  2
Ausoolat Rw.      2  2  2  2  3  G 6             2  4  6  6  6  6  6
Resutch Ant       3  3  3  3  3  3  3            9  It It1 tO  10 10 10
Tchniian 1        I 1    11  11          1       2  2  3  3  3  3  3
Technicln 1       2  2  2  2  2 22               a  0  0  0  0  0  0
Adm ae            2  2  2  2  2  2  2            1  2  2  2  2  2  2
Foremen           2  2  2  2  2  2  2            2   5 7   7  7   7   7
Workers           11 11 11 11  11 1111          1  22 24 25 2  25 25
LCQUME ISTA                           LEGUMS PAIRUMAN
SeniorRe.         0 0 0  0          1             0         1  1 a  O a  I  I  1
Assocat Rea.      2  1   1  2  4 65              11  1  1  1    I  I
Resarch Aut       4  4  5   6  6  6   5          1  1    1 1  1     1
Technican U       0  1  1  1  1  1  1            0  a  0  0  0  0  0
Technfelanl       0  2   2  2  2  2  2           0  a  0  0  0  0  0
Admin bd          0  2   2  2  2  2  2           0  0  0  0  0  0  0
Foremen           2  4   4  4  4 44              a  0  0  0  0  0  0
Woes              7  9  9  9            9  9     3  3  3  3  3  3  3
LEGUME TOTAL                             OUINOA
Senrc Res.        0               0   1  2  2  2  0  0    0    1  11 
Ausoclau ROL      3  2  2  3   5 00              2  3  4  5  6  6 0
Ressach Asut      5  5   0  6  06        6 0        13 t1a      8      a 8
TQchnican l       0  1  1  1  1 1   1            2  2  2  2  2  2  2
Tehnican I        0  2a2  2  2   2  2            2  2  2  2  2  2  2
Adminlh           0  2   2  2  2  2  2           1  2  2  2  2  2  2
Fwremen           2  4   4  4  4  4  4           4  4  4  4  4  4  4
Wordes            10 12  12 12  12  12  12      11 1t 11 11   11    11
RESEARCH STAFF+ PALUMA           tOTA RESEARCH STAFF (W/O 140)
Son[o Res.        3  3  3  0  10 10 11           1  1  t  3  7  7  8
Assocla ROL       10 17 20 22 27 31 31          14 15 15 20 24 20 28
Reseah Ass.      37 45  43 40 40 40 40          36 44 42 39 39 39 30
Tehnian I            11  12  12 12 12 12         7 10 11 11 11 11 11
Technian I        8  10  10  10  10 1010 t       0          0   8     0 8 
AdminWa           0 12  12 12     12 12          4 10 10 10  10 10 10
Fore8an          127 29 29 29 29 29             10S 252  27 2  2
Workes           73 79 81 82   6 82 82          64 707   73 73 73  73



-39-                                ~~~~~~~ANNIEX  2
Table 2
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTUIRAL TECHNOLOGY DELOPET PROJECT
Two.& 1WPo"uaEmeIa.a               mPaiu
TV  we p_  pg  I   cm U  oo..mg
so"WRM ~    ~     dOWX
legievR         Sb l.  1 0z @h 0t 0   0   0   0
AOGR               S4      0   0    0   0   0   0 
A.sw~D~1   0   *   0   °1   °   0   o 
Twluqm             a   o   O   0   o   O   o   o   1
~~mIaki2t~~   3   0   0   0 0 0 0 0 1
_odtw   I0010                       a   a O   O   O
AWeakenI               a 0      a 0      a   a    0  14
U4W@
T& Ot PO a   g  In  CM UN O    Ol Totd
TnmwRt 30   0   2   0   0   0   0   0   A
~Aeig.OPs.         0   0   4   0   0   0   I   0   3
RNmswskAss        0  0    10    I   I   a   4 10
r*Wwldm a         o      0      o   a   o   1   0   o
?eeIwIog               O      a     0   a   0   0   0
, O   O   a   O   O      a   O 
Fot@IUI      O@    0   3   0           0    1    307
Woeksa                 a0 10 1a   a      a a       t
64
MA=
Tor as  PIS pg  be  Cad UN  oUw TeL PTA
0   0   0                      a 0   0   O   0   a   0
AOM eliR.s.       0a            4   0a       0   0   8   I
Asuch Asg         0   0   0   0   0   0   0   a   a   3
ToolMimU          0   0   0   1   0   0   a   0   1   0
T nMi             O OI  0   0   0   a   0  0     0        0
'..i,u~m             @     001000010  $   t 
Poemea            0 0          0        0   00        1
aosen  0   0   0   6   0   0   0   6  II   S
Tor WSe  Pa  P   be  Cd UP Clow ua  WOTA
*ua i.t           0 O      0   1   0   0   0   0 t        I
Aweeia R.g                     0         0   0   0   5 
;a-M4*            0           2 0   1 t   1   0   I   5
TOOnn 0a          0   1   0   0   0   0   0   0   I   t
Tahi*1mnI         a   a   0   0   0   0   0   0   a   a
AdmknlwaW         03a0 00a0 001   a
.e a k e n         0   1       0    2   a   a   o     4   4
*-4w              a        0  3   2   2   0        1 
.~-
Toro see  Pe  pg  wes  cm up cowMe
8  eelRtAm        0   1   0   0   0   0   0   0   a
uasult         0a             0 a   a       0   a 
*o ad    t a0 a   a       u a0 1
T      "mItMI,    0   a   0   0   0   0   0   0   2
T~uIelmt          0   3   0 00          0   0 a   0   2
ki s                                i   I O      a 0 1 0 0 0 0 0
we~~~~~o a S  t    OW  toc   UN Om   TOW
sonwfTr Pt t               B   0h U8  .0   a   I
PenmnR              0   0   3        3   1
Re   An            0 O                   1 00 6 
TSes      a       °0   0   2            0 0   0 
Agd"MI            0   0   2   0   0   0   0   0   2
TegmIebl          0   0           0   0   0   0   0   a
WakelolmI         0   0        0   0   0   0   0   1
Weaken     0   0  ~~~~7   0   0           0  It
NtGK4W TOTAL
Tor We  PM  Psi In  CM UN 0tw Ton  WA
senletRa.         2   a   a   3   0   *   0   0  i   a 
A,gecIo.Nes       4  11  10   S   0   0   1   0at ias
Rse _u P             I a        1   a 5      a ti 43     |
Ten*miI s.3 a              2   I   2   a 0       0  1St  tt
TegialigI         3   4   2   2   0   0   0   0  10   6
a     _mIhlUr     3   4   4   a   00  0a        0 11         tO
Pneno              0  0  7    a    0 to4    a  go 6
W-                a  10 t2    6   7  11  tO       sa  73
SU7?-l



ANNEX 2
-39a-                           Table 3
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTMWAL TECN_OLOGY DEVELO=   PROJECT
TABLE 3, Summay of Total I1TA staff by yer (not, figures inicude those In traning).
1991 1992 1993 1994 199  19  1997
HM+Special Studhos       53   62  66  66  66  66  66
Ressamh programs        148  183  189  191  199  201  202
Main atlons              54   63  63  63  63  63  63
Sub Progams              12  12  24  24  24  24  24
Lowlarnd Sthna           17  17  17   0   0    0   0
TOaW IJTA Staff         284  337 359 344  352  354  355
STATION OPERATIONS
Tor S8e Pat  Pai iso   Chi Ull  Total
Chie Stalon          1    1   1   0    1   1   1   a
Headsof admin.       2    2   2   0    1   1.  1   9
Admin. per.          4    4   4   0   0   0   0   12
Prod. suppolt        7   7   7   0   4   4   4   33
Mechanics            2   2   2    0   0    0   0    6
Gen. Se,voes         5   5   B    0   2   2   2   21
21  21  21    0   8    8   8   87
LOCATION OF STAFF IN FINAL YEAR
HO  Tor SBe Pat  Pal Iso   Chi UU  Other Total IOTA
TOTAL PERSONNEL          66  43  61   79  25  28  35   20  17 380 355



ANNEX 3
-40-
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cuadro de Organizacldn Genoral
ORGANIGRAMA
Contraloriade oCon                          ACA CseonseoSuperior
la2Repiblica                   Oirectivo           j                  de InvestUgac"n
I~                                          I
Director
General
Planificacion,                                              Se retria
y Evaluaclof                                                 General
Comunaclones |_.__                                            Auditoria
Instiucilonales !                                             Intema
---   I              Comites Formaies                      I
Director                - 0e Planifcaci6n                  Director
Administrativo            - DOe ireccion
- De Recursos Humanos
- De Compras
Recurwso                            Pmgrama      L
_   HIumanos                            O uinua
Finawom                 ~~~Prourama 
Pa1pa    J
y Sumirfistros             e~~~ereales
sstmionos                ~~~Proorama   _
1xeimrt                               Leguminosas
_| Manteninliento  :Programa alo 
y Serv. GeneraXes .        y 6ea;a



-41-                          ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LISTADO DE ,CARGOS CIASIFICADOS (PROPUESTO)
Cat  Salario           T6cnica          Administracion y Apoyo
11   min.| IMax.
1 745.3_968.9                    Jefe de Planif. y Evaluaci6n
Jefe de Recursos Humanos
Investigador III                    Jefe de Comunicaciones
Secretario General
10 1 596-.3l7:75.21                  Jefe de Auditoria Interna
Jefe de Operac. de Est. Expe.
Investigador II                     Jefe Financiero
Economista Programas Espec.         Biometrista
Asistente del Director Tecn.        Analista Programador
9  447   620.1|                     Jefe de Compras y Suministros
I  I                 Bibliotecario
Investigador I                      Editor General
Tecnico II                          Editor Tdcnico
Especialista en Informacion
Auditor Interno
Jefe Estacidn Experimental
Tecnico en Planificaci6n II
8  381.6 496.1                      Contador General
_~                                   Jefe Subestacidn Experimental
T6cnico en Planificacidn I
TWcnico Laboratorista           Tecnico Mant. Electr6nico
7  305.31396.91                     Asistente de Personal
Asistente de Capacitaci6n
Asistente de Compras
TWcnico I                       Secretaria Bilingue
Tdcnico Laboratorista           Contador Proyectos Especiales
Cajero-Pagador
Jefe de Mant. y Serv. Grales
(Oficina Central)



-42-                           ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LISTADO DE CARGOS CLASIFICADOS (PROPUESTO) (Cont'd)
6  244.5 317.2                     Auxiliar Contable
I                  Secretaria
Auxiliar de Laboratorio        Auxiliar Administrativo
5  195.41 254L                      Almacenista (Estaciones)
Aux. Admitivo. (Est.Exp.)
- Personal
- Compras
Supervisor Mant.(Estaciones)
4   156.31 20LjJ2                   Cotizador
Auxiliar de Campo              Auxiliar Admitivo (Sub-Estac.)
3  125  | 162.51                    Chofer Mecanico
MecAnico
Capataz                        Tractorista
Pastor                         Ayudante de Mant.(Sub- stac.)
2  100  |130                        Albafil
Ayudante de Almacdn
Trabajador Especializado       Ayudante Mecanico
Cocinero
1  T0     10                       Aseador
conserje
Obrero                         Mensajero
Sereno



-43-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Grade Structure and Salaries
Sabrlo
12
11-
10                                                                              9$8.9
9 
8-                                                                      7
7
6                                                                          3
1  ~~~~~~~~~~~1.
3
2~~~~~~~0.
80
0~~~0
'    II11    1 111 1  IV* IV       VI    VII   VIII I X          X     I
Categorlas



BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Degree Training Program
The total degree column shows the number of degrees to be obtained and the yearly columns
the number of trainees in that year who will be receiving training.
Type,of,Training           Total Degree   91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Ph.D. Researcher                 8         3      7    7    5    1    1    0
M.Sc. Researcher                21         6    16   14    5    1    0    0
TOTAL                           29         9    23   21   10    2    1   0



-45-                               ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
AOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TZECHNOOGY DEVMUOPMENT PROJECT
IBTA Performance Indicators
In order to monitor the performance of IBTA, the following
indicators would be used. They are mainly related to the institutional
development and management, since it is unlikely that measurable research
results would be discernible at the farm level in terms of improved production
systems or quality of produce before Year 5. The indicator is presented in
the left hand column followed by the measure to be used and the expected value
of that measure. Compliance with these indicators would be monitored during
supervision of the project and would be reported on according to the schedule
set forth in conjunction with the annual progress reports, which are to be
submitted to IDA by March 31 of each year (para. 4.02(e)).
OVERALL INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION:
IZTA and CNIEA Decree         Target date for signing: December 1990.
Organizational Structure      Principle positions of new structure to be
filled by target dates. Directors by December
1990, program leaders by May 1991.
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION:
operational Manuals           The manuals for "Cargos." nFunciones" and
"Organizacion" should be completed by March
1991, and adhered to thereafter except as shall
otherwise be agreed to by IDA.
Systematization               Accounting procedures to be computerized by
December 1991. Monthly statements of expenses
should be available to unit heads from May 1992.
Compliance with this to be reported on in the
annual progress report to IDA.
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT:
Uniformity                    Percentage of personnel working in I8TA not
covered by standard IBTA personnel policies to
show continual decline, reaching 08 three years
after signing of the Supreme Decree for IBTA.
IBTA to prepare a yearly report for IDA as part
of the progress report until Year 3, after which
report only required if conditions not complied
with.
Vacancy Factor                Percentage unfilled positions as compared with
projected staffing plans. The target figure
should decline from less than 20% in Year 1, to
less than 15% in Year 2, and remain below 10%
for the remainder of the project. Yearly report



-46-
Page 2 of 4
to be prepared for IDA as part of the progress
report.
Turnover                      The percentage of staff leaving IBTA on a yearly
basis should decline from the present level of
approximately 30% to less than 10% by the end of
Year 1 of the project, and should stay below 10%
for the remainder of the project. Yearly report
to be prepared for IDA as part of the progress
report.
Absenteeism                   Less than 10% for Year 1, declining to less than
5% in Year 2 and less than 3% in Year 3 and
thereafter. Yearly report to be prepared for
IDA as part of the progress report.
Personnel Evaluation          Expected to be carried out annually on an
institution-wide basis commencing no later than
December 1991. Compliance and experience with
the system to be reported on annually as part of
the progress report.
FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING:
Accounts                      Presentation of yearly audited accounts by no
later than six months after the close of each
fiscal year with satisfactory report from the
external auditors. Recommendations of the
auditor to be followed-up on by IBTA or CNIEA in
following year.
Cofinancing                   Cofinancing sources, including the timeliness
and adequacy of such to be reported on annually
as part of the progress report.
Government support            Counterpart funds provided as percentage of
planned level, target figure of 100%. Yearly
reporting to IDA as part of the progress report.
CIVIL WORRSs                  Twice yearly progress reports would be submitted
on the progress of civil works as compared with
plans and timetables agreed at negotiations.
ERuaimpnt                     Twice yearly, procurement reports would be
submitted on the progress as compared with the
plan for first and second year of the project,
and thereafter on a yearly basis as compared
with yearly operational plan as part of the
progress report.



-47-
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
TRAININGs
Courses                       Number of persons attending courses per year as
percentage of the plan. Target figure to be
better than 80%. To be reported on yearly as
part of the progress report.
Enrollment                    Enrollment of persons in degree training
programs as percentage of planned. Target to be
better than 90% of planned figure and to be
reported on annually as part of the progress
report.
Higher Degrees obtained       Total number as percentage of planned, to be
reported on a yearly basis as part of the
progress report.
PLANNING:
Strategic Plan                Quality to be satisfactory to IDA and to be
published by no later than September 30, 1991
and revised after the mid-term review by no
later than September 30. 1996. Strategic plan
to be consistent with IBTA's pace of
institutional strengthening and capacity, and
with the objectives of the research focus to be
supported under the project as spelled out in
para. 3.04.
Operational Plan              Quality to be satisfactory to IDA and to be
submitted by November 30 of each year commencing
in 1991. Operational plans to be of such detail
as to specify expected annual outputs of
research work and organizational improvements,
as well as physical and budgetary targets for
infrastructure, equipment and machinery
purchase/installation and purpose thereof.
Operational plans to provide an explanation for
any deviation from the appraisal targets.
Budget                        To be prepared consistent with the operational
plan and with the 65:35 ratio of personnel to
operational expenses. Percentage of budget
expended to be compared with plan on yearly
basis. Target figure to be between 95-100% and
to be reported on annually as part of the
progress report.



-48-
Page 4 of 4
RESE M CH PR06RAMS
Annual Reports                Outputs to be compared with operational plan
targets and consistency with meeting the
objectives of the strategic plan. To be
reported on annually as part of the progress
report.
Conclusive Projects           Number of projects completed and written up.
Bulletins/Publications        Number to be compared with targets set in the
operational plan and quality to be assessed in
terms of meeting the objectives of the strategic
plan. To be reported on annually as part of the
progress report.
Validation Yields/Costs       Percentage yield increase (quality is included
here by placing a price on quality improvements)
or cost reduction as compared with traditional
practice on validation plots as compared with
target percentage under the project of 40% for
yield/quality increase and 30% for unit
production cost. Degree to which the target has
been reached/exceeded to be reported on annually
as part of the progress report.
Extension Linkages            Number of joint validation trials, number and
attendance at extension training programs in
which IOTA is involved. To be reported on
annually as part of the progress report.
Adoption/8enefits             Adoption of IBTA technology by producers
(numbers by program) and estimate of the
economic value added by new technology to be
assessed and reported on as part of the mid-term
review of IBTA and part of the completion report
to be prepared by IBTA at the conclusion of the
project.



BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPFTN? PROJECT
ProAransa de Actividades (IBTA)
No  Actividades                    ~~~~~1.990              21.991 __
No jActividades                       | 8  10  I_ 10 |   112 1   1   2        |3    4    5    6   7   8   9 I-10 l11    12
1  Aprobaci6n Decreto Supremo              _
2  Consbituci6n Consejo Oiectivo
3  Selecci6n Drector General
4  Elaboraci6n Manual Organizaa_6n
5 Nombramientos Intednos de:
-DWectores y Secrelario General
6  Elaboracd6n Reglamento Intemo
- Aprobacion en Consejo
- Aprobaci6n en MACA
7  Elaborad6n Manual Cargos
- Aprobad6n en Consejo
8  Convocatoria Concusos
Cargos Critkos y Jefe R. Humnanos
- Evaluaci6n y Decisiones
9  Inventario Recursos Humanos
10  Evaluaci6n General de Personal
11 Convocatoria Concursos
- Jefes Dpto y Estacones Exp.
12 Conwocatoria Concursos
- Colectivos
- Evaluacidn y Decislones
13  Convocatona Concurso Becaios
- Evaluaci6n y Decsiones
14  Retiro de Personal no Selecaonado
15  Retiro de Personal por Jubilaci6n             _
IS  Vaboracd6n de Cargos
- ( Vaidaidn Estructura)
17  Evaluaci6n de Desempeffo_
- Ebboraci6n insumentos
* Evaluac6n Procesada
!                  ._                           -_ _



-50-                              ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes on the Working PaDer
1.    The development of the working papers has been an iterative process,
with certain working papers forming the basis for discussion and decision
making which is reflected in later working documents. As a result there is a
hierarchy of precedence in the working documents such that the working
documents with the cost tables take precedence over the other working
documents on which they were based in terms of the quantities and estimated
costs of project components.
2.    The development of the cost tables and the salary categories were
developed simultaneously by different consultants. They are in general
agreement however there ar minor differences due to refinements made by the
consultant on human resources after the cost tables were made. These
refinements will have minimal affects on the final costs as they tend to
balance out. The salary scales in the working document Administracion General
y Recursos Humanos* are those that are recommended. They can be compared with
those in the final cost tables on the following basis:
CLASSIFICATION
Working paper on Admin.
& Rec. Humanos                      Cost Tables
Cateaorv     Monthly Salary          Cateaory  Monthly Salary
11          745-969                  8            720
10          596-775                  8            720
10          596-775                  7            583
9          447-620                  6            460
8          381-496                  6            460
8*         381-496                  5*           333
7          305-396                  5            333
7*         305-396                  4*           267
6          244-317                  3            233
5          156-203                  3            233
4*         156-203                  24           150
3          125-163                  2            150
2          100-130                  1             85
1           80-104                  1             85
* Denotes very few people in this combination of
classifications.
The salary levels in the cost tables are below the mid point of the salary
ranges given in the tables. This reflects the fact that not all positions are
filled at all times due to vacancies.



-51-
ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Pile
1.    Detailed Cost Tables
2.    Proyecto de Foralecimiento del Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologi
Agropecuaria
3.    Bolivia: Agricultural Technology Development.  Consultants Back-to-
Office Report
4.    Bolivias Agricultural Technology Development.  Research Program
Development
S.   Boliviat Agricultural Technology Development.  FAOJCP Working Papers.
Report No. 48190 CP-BOL 33NP.
6.    Bolivia* Agricultural Technology Development. lAO/CP Updated Project
Brief Report No. 48/90 CP-BOL 33PB.



-52-
ANNX 1Q
Page 1 of 4
The Commodity Prorams
1.          Under the project, IBTA would initially focus efforts on six
commodity programs. This would narrow ZBTAIs present program which included
research on more than 20 crop and livestock enterprises, so as to ensure that
each program reaches a critical mass and has sufficient resources to make an
impact. Key criteria used for the selection of the programs weres
(a)   total cultivated area;
(b)   total and per unit value of production;
(c)   number of producers;
(d)   importance in the Altiplano and Valles.
(e)   availability of technology that can be adapted to local
conditions;
(f)   probability of obtaining major impact; and
(g)  present capacity in IBTA and other agencies to implement a
program.
2.          The individual commodity and the special research programs would
be led by program leaders who would have a critical mass of professional staff-
to assist them. The commodity program leaders would be responsible for
ensuring that their programs develop agricultural production, processing and
marketing technology that meets the overall institutes goals. The IBTA would
test the technology it generates in pilot projects on a semi-commercial basis
with the technology being managed by produeers, processors and marketers
themselves. IBTA would observe the jerformance of the technology under these
conditions and use the information for feed back to direct future research
efforts. This process requires that IBTA be directly involved, in
collaboration with other technology transfer agencies, in the technology
transfer process to at least a small'number of farmers. Furthermore, this
transfer process should give added insight into how the efficiency of the
transfer process can be improved. Bach of the programs has resources for this
technology transfer process. The IBTA is not, however, directly charged with
the responsibility for technology transfer. Rather IETA would provide the
existing extension agencies such as the NGOs with the information that they
require to transfer the technology.
3.          For the purposes of carrying out specific, project-funded
activities, IZTA would enter into contractual arrangements, on terms
satisfactory to rDA, with other participating entities such as CIP and IBM.
4.          Bach of the commodity programs would focus on four major areas:
genetic improvement, crop management, special studies, and field verification
and adaptation. The potato program which is already well estUblished has a
slightly different structure but in general principle follows the same pattern
as that proposed for the other commodities.
5.          Genetic improvement activities would be directed towards the
development of varieties (breeds) suitable for use by the farmers. The basis



-53-
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
of the programs would be the use of imported and local germplasm, either for
direct selection or to be included in breeding programs. Breeding and
selection would focus on such characteristics as tolerance to diseases, pyets
and natural stress conditions such as frost and drought, yielding ability
under farmer management, and consumer acceptance. The genetic improvement
staff would maintain close contact with the special studies and field
verification staff so as to obtain feedback on the performance of new
materials and also so as to ensure that their program is directed to solving
the needs of the producers.
6.          Crop manacement would be concerned with developing individual
management components and combining them into viable production packages
suitable for the producers and adapted to their social and economic
circumstances. A wide range of management practices including fertility
maintenance, crop protection, land preparation and general cultural practices
would be covered. It would be the responsibility of the group working in this
field to show how the new technology developed can be fitted into the overall
farming systems.
7.         S§Mcial studies would be directed to ensuring that the technology
provides products which are both acceptable to the consumer (either on-farm or
for sale) and that are in demand. The unit will carry out studies on the
demand and consumer preferences for the commodities and the various sub
products that can be obtained by processing them. This information would be
utilized both directly by the genetic improvement and crop management groups
to guido their research and also by the special studies group to guide their
research on post harvest processing and handling.
8.          Field verification and adaptation provides the critical link
between the farmer and the researcher and the path for feedback on the
progress being made in more basic research. The initial activ%ities of this
group will be to collect baseline data on the specific commodities thrdugh-
surveys. This information should provide insights into the problems faced by
the producers and help to define overall research priorities. Furthermore,
the existence of baseline data would in the future provide the initial data
for evaluating the impact of the research programs.
9.          As new technology is generated it would be tested and adapted to
local conditions by this group at the farm or village level, with the active
participation of local producers and processors in the design, implementation
and interpretation of the trials. In the case of processing technology, the
group may assist in the establishment of pilot plants, which once proven to be
successful can be used as training sites for those interested in developing
the technology.
10.          =ato.  This is a major crop in- Bolivia in terms of area planted
and total production. Potatoes are grown by small farmers in the highland's
but it is of major importance in the diet throughout Bolivia, providing energy
in the form of carbohydrates and significant amounts of good quality protein.
Yields of potato at less than 6t/ha are low and a pricri improvemento in
productivity should be possible. on the other hand, potatoes are susceptible
to a large number of disease and pest problems, and are also bulky and



-54-
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
perishable after harvest. To resolve these problems would require a major
research effort. At present IBTA in collaboration with the Centro
Internacional de Papa (CIP) has a major program centered in Toralapa, financed
by the Swiss through COTESU. The proposec' project would support potato
research through the general institutional assistance being provided to IBTA,
but financing of the Potato Program and Toralapa station operations would be
supported under parallel financing from COTESU and CIP, expected to amount to
about US$3.5 million.
11.         Maize ie the most important crop in Bolivia in terms of area
planted. It is mainly used for human food and the production of chicha, an
alcoholic drink. Smaller amounts are used for animal feed either as grain or
green silage. The yields of maize at 1.5 t/ha are low by world standards. In
Bolivia, much of the maize research is done by CIFP (paras. 2.17, 2.18). As
yields are still low, prospects for further increases appear possible if a
concerted research effort is mounted. Under the project, the CIFP efforts
would be strengthened and linked to IBTA's program. The CIFP would be
subcontracted by IBTA for the implementation of a major part of the core
research program, with IBTA taking major responsibility for the adaptive
research. The project would provide laboratory equipment, farm machinery and
two vehicles for CIP, but no other investment costs as CIFP is already well
equipped.   The total cost including contingency would be US$0.89 million plus
further 0.24 million for contract research by the CIFP.
12.         Sheep numbers are estimated at 8 million and cameloids (llamas,
alpacas, vicufias and guanacos) at 1.5-2.5 million. These are almost
exclusively owned by poor herders in the highland areas, and provide them with
their major source of income. Production is based on grazing of unimproved
native pastures with little pasture management. Research is minimal in this
area. However, the export market for high quality llama and alpaca wool
appears to be promising, and an analysis of the industry done in conjunction
with the preparation of the ADP project Buggests that technical and social
improvement could lead to substantially greater profits by the herders. Under
the project, IBTA would establish a research program on sheep and cameloids
that would include the all important aspects of pasture production and
processing of wool and fibers. The research program for this part of IBTA's
program may be partially financed by the IFAD livestock program for the Andean
zone and the United States Small Ruminant CRSP. The estimated cost of this
component of project would be about US$2.9 million.
13.         Ouinoa is exclusively grown in the highlands.  Its resistance to
frost, drought and salinity allow it to be grown under extremely harsh
co-ditions, where farmers have few other viable alternatives. Both internal
and export markets for quinoa show promise. Until recently quinoa has
received little attention from researchers, suggesting that crop production
and processing could readily be improved. The IBTA-IDRC project in the
highlands has in a relatively short time produced varieties that are more
productive and that farmers have accepted with alacrity. The quinoa program
would be strengthened under the project, with the project supporting the
incremental project staff c-osts, operational research and semi-commercial
testing, as well as subcontracting part of the research to IBTN. The total
cost of the quinoa research program would be US$2.8 million.



-55-
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 4
14.         Faba beans and peas are grown throughout the highlands although
official estimates of area planted probably do not reflect their true
importance. The grain legumes have two vital roles to play in highland
agriculture. Firstly, they are one of the few "protein" sources for the
population of the area. Secondly, their ability to fix nitrogen makes them of
critical importance in the rotations used to maintain fertility in a country
where fertilizer use is minimal, particularly in the highlands. Research on
these crops has been minimal: IBTA has set up a few trials and the CIFP has
done some work. The possibilities of improving production practices appear
good in the light of the limited efforts to date. The activities of IBTA and
CIFP would be coordinated in the same manner as the maize program with CIFP.
The start of this program would be phased as there are few people with
expertise in this field at present in IBTA and CIFP, and hence the initial
efforts would be geared to training of staff and then in Year 3 the program
would begin to build up rapidly to its designed level. The total cost of the
bean research program is US$2.0 million with a further US$93,000 for contract
research with CIFP.
15.         Small grains (e.g., wheat, barley and oats) are grown mainly in
the highlands of Bolivia. Wheat is important for food, and barley for the
malting industry. Oats were until recently grown mainly as a green forage,
but new grain varieties developed by IBTA, have increases its importance as a
food crop. The CIPP collaborates with CIMNYT on the development of new durum
wheat lines. Yields of the small grains are generally low by world standards
and potential for improvement good. The IBTA small grains program would be
supported by parallel financing by USAID and PL480 under existing
arrangements. The PL480 contribution is however in some doubt at present to
problems related to exchange rates and sales of wheat some years back and
hence other sources of financing may be necessary. The overall program would
be supported by the instituitional strenqthening of ITh. to be supported under
the project. Total project cost would be US$2.5 million.
16.         Special Research Programs.  While the project would focus IBTA's
efforts on main crop and livestock enterprises to ensure a critical research
mass is available to work on the crops of major importance, the door would not
be closed to other possibilities on an exploratory basis so as to later
develop new programs at IBTA. Approximately 4% of the research budget would
be set aside for exploratory research, amounting to US$0.55 million over the
project period. The special research program would be expected to identify
new potential areas of research for IBTA and develop a portfolio of possible
special projects that could be presented to donors. In this manner, it is
expected that IBTA could capture funds on a more rational basis than at
present.



IBRD 22554
4                                . 
B R A Z I L                                                      BOLIVIA
P     OEE2 to2oS.ts                                                      AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY
A ' N                                                                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3    Main Research Stations       -6OO-. lsohyets in millimeters/year
TOWC    8                 / G...,\                                Substations                        ROADS;
_-r   o>¢*J   t<b   -R<{   /  Lto    , Riberne-t (JTAI  4s  Lowland Stations          Main
PoWd      i  N .      -   s,  Collaboroting Stations                                                     Secondary
A N D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~-----Tracks
Vo\    \  /  b' 8tf   500                                                           oa  Towns
*t   \   ,n 7   \  \      \,   .                                                     ®+,,@   Deportment Capitals   it
N 1>  '*  j \   A   1;    >,  ,Ot                            23  Notional Capital
, tj<;Fbelh     e  \         \ \  '-'*~~~plasibs" 1                                           Deportme?nt Soundories
Internotionol Boundaries
P E R U20I                                                                       _                         - -               is
Puerto +KOIlarAs       dv-4j   1    / $                                                   500
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\O    C  H  I L E  \  t;   T O   S  1$$ ;rm           e         ¢    t pCORDErAR1 1                       }        {-'.  T Bresa
0 RUU{RS AO
ARGE4JTIPNARGUA



