Page  1
December  22, 1995
Mr. Fernando Candia
Minister of Finance
and/or Mr. Gonzalo Afcha
Secretary of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Cajon Postal - Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:
Credit No. 2216-BO (Agricultural Technology Development 
Project)
Third Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the DCA) between the Republic 
of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association) dated April 16, 1991, as amended on June 25, 1992 and January 11, 1994.
In response to your May 22, 1995 request to: (a) amend the DCA in order to 
delete Part A of the Project and to reflect the changes made during Project 
implementation; and (b) reallocate some of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the DCA, we are pleased to inform you that the 
Association hereby agrees to amend the DCA as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended as follows:
 
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
'CIFP' means the Centro de Investigacion Fitogenetica Pairumani, the 
Centre of Genetic Plant Research of Pairumani;
(b)
'CIFP Contractual Arrangement' means the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be entered into between IBTA and CIFP for the purposes of CIFP 
assisting IBTA in carrying out part of the research on maize and faba beans under Part 
4 (b) of the Project, and includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to such 
agreement;
(c)
'Consolidated Operational Plan' means the plan referred to in Section 
3.05 (b) of this Agreement, to be produced in each year of the Project, and which 
shall be a plan consolidating the commodity program plans and the support service 
plans of IBTA required for the purposes of the Project during the following fiscal 
year; 
(d)
'Contractual Arrangement' means the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be entered into between a non Bolivian agricultural research 
institution or agency, satisfactory to the Association, and IBTA for the provision of 
technical assistance to IBTA in the carrying out of Parts 1, 2 and 4 (b) of the 
Project;
(e)
'IBTA' means the Bolivian Institute for Agricultural Technology 
(Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia Agropecuaria of the Borrower;
(f)
'HRD' means the Human Resources Division (Jefatura de Recursos Humanos) 
of IBTA;
(g)
'Institutional Strategic Plan' means each of the institutional strategic 
plans referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, and each of which shall be a 
long-term plan which shall reflect changes in internal or external parameters that 
affect IBTA, each such plan to cover a five-year period, and each of which shall 
provide, inter alia, guidelines for the assignation of resources within IBTA during 
such period;
Page  2
(h)
'Ministerial Decree' means Supreme Decree No. 22565, dated August 2, 
1990, under which IBTA is restructured, which became effective under the law of the 
Borrower on August 21, 1990;
(i)
'Program Leaders' means the employees of IBTA appointed to manage the 
research programs under Part 4 (b) of the Project;
(j)
'Special  Account' means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
'Subsidiary Grant Agreement' means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and IBTA, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
(1)
'TC' means the Technical Council (Consejo Tecnico) of IBTA.".
 
2.
Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 this Agreement, and to this end, 
shall cause IBTA to carry out the Project, as provided below, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, agricultural, environmental and research practices and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Ministerial Decree, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.".
3.
Section 3.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) ensure at all times that the 
salary scales of IBTA's staff are maintained at levels equal to those set 
forth in Resolution No. 14/95 issued by the Borrower's Consejo de Desarrollo 
Nacional on August 25, 1995 or any other level acceptable to the Association; 
and 
(ii) cause IBTA to evaluate the qualifications of its staff through the TC 
with 
the assistance of the HRD.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall cause IBTA to hire or reassign its staff (to be financed with 
the proceeds of the Credit) in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.".
4.
The words "Part B.4 (a) (i) and B.4 (a) (ii) of the Project" in Section 3.03 
shall be replaced by the words "Part D (a) (i) and 4 (a) (ii) of the Project.".
5.
The words "Part B.2 of the Project" in Section 3.04 shall be replaced with the 
words "Part B of the Project.".
6.
The words "Part B of the Project" in the second and sixth line of paragraph (b) 
of Section 3.05 shall be replaced with the words "the Project.".
7.
The: (a) dates "January 1 - December 31" referred to in the fifth and sixth line 
of paragraph (a) of Section 3.06 are replaced by the dates July 1 - June 30; and (b) 
words "Part B of the Project" in the fourth and eight line shall be replaced with the 
words "the Project.".
8.
Section 3.09 is hereby deleted.
 
9.
Paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 are hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"(a)
The Borrower shall cause IBTA to maintain separate records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause IBTA to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.".
10.
A new Section 4.03 is added which shall read as follows: 
 
"Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project through 
the Special Account.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.".
11.
Paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.01 are hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"(a)
the Ministerial Decree or  any  provision thereof  shall  have  
been abrogated, amended, waived, repealed, suspended or not enforced;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that IBTA will be able to carry out the Project;".
12.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as set forth in  
Annex  A  to this amendment letter.
13.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as set forth in Annex B to this amendment 
letter.
14.
Section II of Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"Section II.  Employment of Consultants
In carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall cause IBTA to employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by 
the Bank in August 1981.".
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original and shall not become effective until: (a) the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement has been amended under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
which shall include, inter alia, the changes made through the foregoing amendment; and 
(b) a copy of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, as amended, has been received by the 
Association.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this amendment letter.  Upon your confirmation, please return 
one fully executed original to us.
Page  4
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Paul Isenman
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Fernando Candia Casatillo
(Authorized Representative)
Date: January 3, 1996
ANNEX "A"
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated                    % of
                           (Expressed in                  Expenditures
"Category                  SDR Equivalent)                to be Financed
(1)  Works                     786,075                   100% of foreign
                                                         expenditures and
                                                         85% of local
                                                         expenditures
(2)  Equipment               2,100,000                   100% of foreign
     (including vehicles)                                expenditures and
                                                         85% of local
                                                         expenditures
(3)  Consultants' services   2,600,000                   100% of foreign
                                                         expenditures and
                                                         85% of local
                                                         expenditures
(4)  Training                1,710,714                   100% of foreign
                                                         expenditures and
                                                         85% of local
                                                         expenditures
(5)  Research under            400,000                   100% of foreign
     Part 4 (d)                                          expenditures and
                                                         85% of local
                                                         expenditures
(6)  Operating Expenses      7,403,211                   100% until
                                                         withdrawals have
                                                         reached the
                                                         equivalent of
                                                         SDR 3,309,227;
                                                         thereafter, 90%
                                                         until withdrawals
                                                         have reached the
                                                         equivalent of
                                                         SDR 4,606,438;
                                                         80% thereafter.
(7)  Unallocated                    0
     TOTAL                 15,000,000".
Page  5
ANNEX "B"
"SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote agricultural technology development, 
in the territory of the Borrower and particularly in the highland areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
 
Reorganization of IBTA to strengthen its technology generation and adaptation 
capacities; establish a new administration and management structure; improve planning 
and implementation procedures so as to meet producers' needs; introduce cost-effective 
budgeting and control mechanisms; provide greater support to research and field staff; 
balance operational and personnel budgets; improve personnel policies and management; 
and establish procedures to ensure IBTA's focus on a limited number of commodities in 
research areas that are within its capacity to adequately support and manage.
Part B:
Training
 
Provision of specialized training to IBTA staff, including, but not limited to, 
sending research staff on further education programs for MSC, PhD and other courses, 
and the provision of short-term training for administrative personnel.
Part C:
Research Stations
 
Renovations of, and additions to: (i) the research stations of Patacamaya, San 
Benito and Toralapa, and such other research stations as may be acceptable to the 
Association; and (ii) the research substations of Ulla Ulla, Iscayachi and Chinoli, 
and such other research substations as may be acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Studies and Research Programs
 
(a)
Execution of studies on: (i) technology transfer; and (ii) requirements 
for research in the Borrower's lowland tropical areas.
(b)
Execution of research programs consisting of research of tuber and roots 
(including potatoes, papalisa, oca and isano) quinoa and leguminous grains (including 
faba beans, peas and kidney beans), maize, wheat and minor cereals and livestock 
(including sheeps, cameloids and cattle), fruits, vegetables and crop germplasm, and 
such other research activities as may be agreed with the Association, focusing on the 
areas of genetic improvement, crop management, special studies and field verification 
and adaptation.
(c)
Execution of an exploratory research program to identify and evaluate new 
potential areas of research and to develop a portfolio of possible projects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1998.".
