Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2216-BO
(Agricultural Technology Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 16, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2216-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1991, between THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CIFP" means the Centro de Investigacion Fitogenetica Pairumani, the 
Centre of Genetic Plant Research of Pairumari;
(b)
"CIFP Contractual Arrangement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be entered into between IBTA and CIFP for the purposes of CIFP 
assisting IBTA in carrying out part of the research on maize and faba beans and peas, 
under Part B.4 (b) of the Project, and includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to such agreement;
(c)
"CNIEA" means the National Council for Agricultural Research and 
Extension (Consejo Nacional de Investigacion y Extension Agropecuaria), within the 
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Peasant Affairs;
(d)
"Consolidated Operational Plan" referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this 
Agreement, to be produced in each year of the Project, and which shall be a plan 
consolidating the commodity program plans and the support service plans of IBTA 
required for the purposes of Part B of the Project during the following fiscal year;
(e)
"Contractual Arrangement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be entered into between a non-Bolivian agricultural research 
institution or agency, satisfactory to the Association, and IBTA for the provision of 
technical assistance to IBTA in the carrying out of Parts B.1 and B.4 (b) of the 
Project;
(f)
"IBTA" means the Bolivian Institute for Agricultural Technology 
(Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia Agropecuaria) of the Borrower;
(g)
"Institutional Strategic Plan" means each of the institutional strategic 
plans referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, and each of which shall be a 
long-term plan which shall reflect changes in internal or external parameters that 
affect IBTA, each such plan to cover a five-year period, and each of which shall 
provide, inter alia, guidelines for the assignation of resources within IBTA during 
such period;
(h)
"Ministerial Decree" means each of Supreme Decree No. 22599, dated 20 
September, 1990 under which CNIEA is established, and Supreme Decree No. 22565, dated 
2, August, 1990, under which IBTA is restructured, and each of which became effective 
under the law of the Borrower on October 1, 1990 and August 21, 1990, respectively; 
and a reference to "Ministerial Decrees" shall be a reference to both such decrees;
(i)
"Program Leaders" means the employees of IBTA appointed to manage the 
research programs under Part B.4 (b) of the Project;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(k)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and IBTA, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  3
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2001 and ending March 1, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2011, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of  each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  4
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project, through CNIEA, and shall cause Part B of the Project to be 
carried out by IBTA, as provided below, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural, environmental and 
research practices and in accordance with the provisions of the Ministerial Decrees, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) enter into an agreement with IBTA (the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, and which shall provide, inter alia, for: (A) the transfer, on a grant 
basis, of such proceeds of the Credit to IBTA as shall be required by IBTA to carry 
out Part B of the Project; and (B) the commitment by IBTA to the objectives of the 
Project, to the carrying out of Part B of the Project and to the performance of all 
other obligations to be undertaken by IBTA pursuant to this Agreement, all in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; and (ii) 
exercise its rights and promptly carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the salary scales of CNIEA 
and IBTA staff are maintained at such competitive and adequate levels as shall be 
necessary to attract and retain staff of the caliber and ability required for such 
entities; (ii) not later than October 31 in each year during the execution of the 
Project furnish to the Association information on the salary scales to be in effect in 
the following year; and (iii) take all steps on its part necessary to change such 
salary scales as shall be reasonably recommended by the Association.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall cause the salaries of the directors of IBTA, the secretary of CNIEA and the 
Program Leaders to be set at such levels as shall be necessary to maintain in such 
positions persons with the qualifications and experience required therefor. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause IBTA to hire consultants, satisfactory to 
the Association, to undertake the studies under Part B.4 (a) (ii) and B.4 (c) of the 
Project not later than September 30, 1992 and December 31, 1991, respectively, such 
consultants to be hired as provided in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause IBTA to obtain, prior to sending any of 
its employees to MSC and PhD courses under Part B.2 of the Project, a legally binding 
commitment, satisfactory to the Association, from any such employee to the effect 
that, upon conclusion of the course, any such employee shall return to IBTA and remain 
for a minimum length of time calculated on the basis of two months of service for each 
month of training received.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause IBTA:
(a)
(i)
to approve and publish an Institutional Strategic Plan for IBTA, 
no later than September 30, 1991; and
(ii)
to submit, no later than September 30, 1996, to the Association, 
for its approval, a second Institutional Strategic Plan for the 
period of the following five years.
(b)
to submit to the Association, for approval, by no later than November 30 
in each year, throughout the execution of Part B of the Project, starting on November 
30, 1991, its Consolidated Operational Plan for the following year and, without 
limitation to any other provision of this Agreement, to take all measures necessary or 
appropriate to ensure that Part B of the Project is implemented in each year in a 
manner consistent with the Consolidated Operational Plan.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction on the Association's rights 
under Section 9.06 of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall cause IBTA to submit to the Association, and to the 
Borrower, for each such parties' review and comment, by no later than March 31 in each 
year, during the execution of Part B of the Project, starting on March 31, 1992, an 
annual progress report covering the period of January 1 - December 31, immediately 
preceding, such annual progress reports to: report (in quantative form and through key 
indicators) on the progress achieved in the implementation by IBTA of Part B of the 
Page  5
Project; provide an analytical account of achievements and problems incurred; and 
include copies of special studies (if any) carried out and data on such indicators; 
such annual progress reports to be of sufficient scope and detail, and provided in, a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
On receipt of the Association's comments and after its review of the 
annual progress reports submitted to it in accordance with Section 3.06 (a) above, the 
Borrower shall relay the Association's review and comments to IBTA, and shall cause 
IBTA to take into account the Association's comments, and implement the changes (if 
any) advised by the Association's review, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out an internal review of IBTA's progress and 
performance in implementing the organizational and other (if any) changes reflected by 
the key-indicators, and shall submit such interim review to the Association by no 
later than June 30, 1993, for its review and comment.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause IBTA to maintain, throughout the 
execution of the Project, the positions of technical director and director of 
administration, with powers, functions and responsibilities, satisfactory to the 
Association, and to maintain in such positions persons with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause IBTA to refrain from undertaking any 
research activity other than those included in the Project unless: (i) the Association 
consents to any such activity; and (ii) the Borrower or the Association provides funds 
to IBTA to finance such activity, in a manner and in amounts satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause IBTA to:
(a)
employ, not later than September 30, 1994, consultants to assist the 
Borrower in the preparation of the evaluation report referred to in paragraph (b) 
below, such consultants to be employed as provided in Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
submit to the Association, not later than September 30, 1996, a report: 
(i) containing an evaluation of the performance of IBTA in the execution of Part B of 
the Project and an analysis of possible sources of financing for IBTA's activities 
after the execution of Part B of the Project; and (ii) recommending, if necessary, any 
actions to be taken by IBTA to improve such performance; and 
(c)
if applicable, promptly take all such action which shall have been 
approved by the Association.
Section 3.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through CNIEA, maintain, and cause IBTA to 
maintain, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of CNIEA and IBTA respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association such other 
information concerning such records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last disbursement from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause IBTA to achieve, by January 1, 1992, and 
to maintain thereafter a ratio of approximately 65 to 35 between IBTA's personnel 
costs and operational costs.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause IBTA:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, agricultural, environmental and research practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, 
technical and environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
either of the Ministerial Decrees have been revoked, amended, waived, or 
suspended, in whole or in part;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that IBTA will be able to carry out its Part B of the Project;
(c)
any provision of the Contractual Arrangement or CIFP Contractual 
Arrangement shall have been assigned, amended, abrogated or waived without the prior 
writen consent of the Association;
(d)
there shall have been a failure by the Borrower or IBTA (as the case may 
Page  7
be) to enforce, or carry out the obligations under, the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, 
the Contractual Arrangement or the CIFP Contractual Arrangement;
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 6.01  of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly entered into;
 
(b)
that the Contractual Arrangement has been duly entered into;
 
(c)
that the CIFP Contractual Arrangement has been duly entered into;
 
(d)
that IBTA shall have appointed the Program Leaders; and
 
(e)
that salary scales, acceptable to the Association, are in effect in IBTA 
and CNIEA.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered by, the Borrower and IBTA, respectively, and that such 
agreement is legally binding on the Borrower and IBTA in accordance with its terms; 
and
(b)
that the Contractual Arrangement and the CIFP Contractual Arrangement has 
been authorized, or ratified by, and executed and delivered by, the parties thereto 
and that each such arrangement is legally binding on such parties in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 7.03. The date July 16, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
Avenida Arce 2147
La Paz,
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINCORD
3280 MINCORD BV
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  9
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Works                    900,000          100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Equipment     2,100,000                   100% of foreign
      (including                                expenditures and
      vehicles)                                 85% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Consultants'            2,600,000         100% of foreign
      services                                  expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)   Training                1,800,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)   Research under            400,000         100% of foreign
      Part B.4 (d)                              expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)   Operating Expenses     6,500,000          100% until with-
                                                drawals have
                                                reached the
                                                equivalent of
                                                SDR 3,200,000;
                                                thereafter, 90%
                                                until withdrawals
                                                have reached the
                                                equivalent of
                                                SDR 4,500,000;
                                                thereafter, 70%
                                                until withdrawals
                                                have reached the
                                                equivalent of
                                                SDR 5,600,000;
                                                thereafter, 50%
                                                until withdrawals
                                                have reached the
                                                equivalent of
                                                SDR 6,500,000;
                                                and 35% thereafter
(7)   Unallocated              700,000
            TOTAL           15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"operating expenses" means expenses incurred for supplies, services, 
travel and staff salaries required under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  10
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR600,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote agricultural technology development, 
in the territory of the Borrower and particularly in the highland areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
CNIAE
 
Strengthening of CNIAE, through administrative and technical assistance, to 
enable it to contribute to the development and improvement of agricultural technology 
in Bolivia, and its  Transfer to those involved in the processes of production, 
processing, consumption and research of agricultural products by: (i) facilitating the 
coordination of activities between agencies with a view to complement such agencies 
activities and to reduce the duplication thereof; (ii) promoting and supporting 
mechanisms for collaboration in the areas of agricultural research, pre-extension and 
extension; (iii) contributing to the formulation of national and institutional 
policies and strategies in agricultural research and extension; and (iv) evaluating 
the results and impact of agricultural research, pre-extension and extension.
Part B:
IBTA
 
1.
Institutional Strengthening
 
Reorganization of IBTA to strengthen its technology generation and adaptation 
capacities; establish a new administration and management structure; improve planning 
and implementation procedures so as to meet producers' needs; introduce cost-effective 
budgeting and control mechanisms; provide greater support to research and field staff; 
balance operational and personnel budgets; improve personnel policies and management; 
and establish procedures to ensure IBTA's focus on a limited number of commodities in 
research areas that are within its capacity to adequately support and manage.
2.
Training
 
Provision of specialized training to IBTA staff, including, but not limited to, 
sending research staff on further education programs for MSC, PhD and other courses, 
and the provision of short-term training for administrative personnel.
3.
Research Stations
 
Renovations of, and additions to: (i) the research stations of Patacamaya, San 
Benito and Toralapa, and such other research stations as may be acceptable to the 
Association; and (ii) the
research substations of Ulla Ulla, Iscayachi and Chinoli, and such other research 
substations as may be acceptable to the Association.
4.
Studies and Research Programs
 
(a)
Execution of studies on: (i) extension systems; and (ii) requirements for 
research in the Borrower's lowland tropical areas.
(b)
Execution of research programs on potato, maize, sheep and cameloids, 
quinoa, faba beans and peas and small grains and such other research activities as may 
be agreed with the Association, focusing on the areas of genetic improvement, crop 
management, special studies and field verification and adaptation.
(c)
Execution of a study on technology transfer.
 
(d)
Execution of an exploratory research program to identify and evaluate new 
potential areas of research and to develop a portfolio of possible projects.
*           *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1998.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, all contracts for goods exceeding an amount 
of $200,000 equivalent, and contracts for works exceeding an amount of $500,000 
equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
Contracts for purchases of goods shall be grouped, wherever possible, so as to 
permit international competitive bidding.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive Bidding:
 
Works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less but more than $25,000 
equivalent and goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less but more than 
$25,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
International and Local Shopping:
 
Works estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
$25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers or 
contractors, as the case may be, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and for works 
respectively to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part D 
hereof, and to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$500,000 and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
Page  12
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through CNIAE, employ, and cause IBTA to employ, consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  13
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
