Report No. PIC5312
Project Name                            Zimbabwe-Community Action Project (
Region                                   Africa
Sector                                   Multisector
Project ID                               ZWPA45031
Implementing Agency                      Ministry of Public Services,
Labour and Social Welfare
Date PID Prepared                        May 1997
Projected Board Date                     November 1998
Background
1.      Many poor groups in Zimbabwe have limited income-earning
opportunities and are increasingly vulnerable to drought.
Deteriorating environmental conditions are also exacerbating the
problems for many poor communities in rural areas. The government
has established widespread programs to increase food security.
These have successfully provided food to many communities, but have
been insufficiently targeted. They have also created a culture of
dependence in some communities.
2.      Zimbabwe has, however, made remarkable progress in developing
its human capital. Since independence in 1980, the government has
made sustained, broad-based investments in the social sectors and
now has some of the best health and education outcomes in the continent.
3.      Some of this progress is now at risk. Over the 1990s, public
spending on the social sectors has declined in real per capita
terms, although outcomes for education and health (except for those
affected by HIV/AIDS) have not shown substantial decline. Spending
on basic services needs to be restored, but other activities can
also help maintain standards. Some of the social sector
infrastructure is now beginning to deteriorate and will need repair
or replacement to help prevent outcomes worsening.
4.      The low rates of economic growth in recent years have
compounded this situation, and may continue to do so if the fiscal
deficit is not reduced. Direct interventions to reach the poorest
in Zimbabwe are of high priority as many of the poor have limited
access to employment opportunities.
Project Objectives
5.      The primary objective is to strengthen the capacity of poor
communities to plan, organize, manage funds and implement projects
responsive to community-diagnosed problems. In so doing, the
project will also strengthen the participation of these communities
in local resource allocation processes. The second objective is to
strengthen poverty monitoring and analysis through cost-effective means.
Project Description



6.      The Community Action Project (CAP) is central to the Poverty
Alleviation Action Plan that the Government has prepared in
consultation with NGOs, the academic community, the private sector
and donors. Broad and inclusive consultation will continue
throughout the preparation of the CAP. Key early activities will
include providing information about the project's objectives,
procedures and activities and disseminating that information widely.
7.      The CAP would have three components: (a) community
subprojects; (b) poverty monitoring; and (c) institutional support
for CAP administration. The first component would fund projects
that arise from community demands. It would give priority to those
that meet specific, poverty-focused eligibility and targeting
criteria. These would be established in the course of project
preparation, but are likely to target projects that: (a) have been
identified and prioritized by communities; (b) come from the
poorest regions or groups; (c) maintain or improve environmental
conditions; (d) have a positive impact upon women; (e) are small-
scale and technologically simple; (f) conform to sectoral norms and
priorities; and (g) have a high labor component and use local
contractors and workers as much as possible.
8.      Types of projects would vary widely, depending on community
priorities. Typical examples might include:
Rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure in
response to gaps that the community has identified. At this
time, sub-project types include: interventions in primary
education, including teachers' accomodation and provision of
potable water to education facilities at all levels, maternal
waiting shelters, rural water supply and sanitation, small
market places, feeder roads rehabilitation, small dam
construction/rehabilitation, vaccine cold chain
rehabilitation/ establishment, communal creches, granaries,
AIDS-related communal hospices, etc.
Environmental improvement and drought mitigating
activities such as reforestation, dam maintenance, catchment
area protection, grazing management and establishment of
community woodlots.
Capacity-building initiatives for grassroots organizations
and local bodies or institutions.
9.      The second component would help: (a) reduce duplication in
coverage by data collection instruments; (b) improve the
availability of quantitative and qualitative data necessary for
different levels of planners to monitor impact of policies/programs
on the poor; (c) improved capacity in poverty analysis and (d)
increased use of such data to formulate and update the poverty-
reduction strategy of which CAP is an element.
Project Financing
10.     The project cost and financing will be determined during
- 2 -



implementation. A notional IDA Credit amount of US$20 - 25 million
is programmed. For the community subprojects it is expected that in
addition to IDA and the Government's funds communities would
provide some co-financing for individual projects with their labor,
materials or cash.
Implementation Arrangements
11.     The government and the Bank will work out specific
implementation arrangements in the course of project preparation.
Certain general principles have, however, been established:
12.     A national level Steering Committee has been established with
representation from various bodies both inside and outside
government, chaired by the Ministry of Public Services, Labour and
Social Welfare. While the Committee's composition and mandate will
be established over the course of project preparation, it would
broadly be responsible for: (a) establishing project selection and
targeting criteria; (b) monitoring and reporting procedures; and
(c) mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability.
13.     A project management unit (CAP Management Unit) will be
established within the SDF of the MPSLSW to implement and
administer the CAP. The CAP unit will manage the sub-project cycle
according to procedures set out in an Operational Manual and hire
field officers whose numbers will be determined as a function of
the geographic coverage and expected volume of sub-projects. This
unit would be autonomous from regular government procedures, but
guided in policy matters by, and accountable to the Steering
Committee.
14.     Rural District Councils (RDCs) are key to the success of
sustainable investments at the local level. Other local structures
such as village and ward councils are also important. These local
bodies would play a key role in appraisal, supervision, monitoring
and maintenance of individual projects.
15.     Communities, local authority structures or NGOs would be
responsible for identifying individual projects. Communities, NGOs
or contractors would implement them. The funds would flow from the
management unit directly to the communities, irrespective of
whether the community or an intermediary implements the project.
16.     The institutional and implementation arrangements for the
poverty monitoring component will be determined during preparation.
It has been agreed that the scope for a poverty monitoring system
needs to be defined gradually. It should begin with a manageable
focus, expand its scope of activities in phases and respond to
client needs in a flexible manner. The SDF and Central Statistical
office (CSO) officials will continue to discuss the detailed
cooperation arrangements for the short-and medium-term poverty
monitoring activities.
Environmental Aspects
-3-



17.     Because of their small size and characteristics, no community
projects would be expected to generate significant negative
environmental effects. However, the cumulative environmental impact
of many small projects may be significant. In order to cost-
effectively mitigate possible cumulative negative impact,
environmental guidelines would be prepared only for subprojects
that may generate some degree of impact (e.g. erosion caused by
roads, unsustainable use of forest and other natural resources
caused by local methods of energy generation).
Poverty Impacts
18.     The project would be part of the Program of Targeted Interventions.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environment
Major Environmental Issues. Given the demand-driven nature of the
CDP, it is not possible to predict the environmental issues that
will arise as a result of the final composition of sub-projects
demanded by communities and financed under the CDP. However, since
the CDP will finance only small grants, it is anticipated that the
typical sub-projects that are likely to be identified by the
communities will have no major negative environmental impacts.
Still, without proper attention, some activities promoted by the
Project might have negative environmental impacts. For example,
poorly planned infrastructure or supported community activities can
generate adverse environmental impacts, such as erosion caused by
the construction of roads, unsustainable utilization of forest and
other natural resources encouraged by local methods of energy
generation of the local carving industry, contamination of water
caused by unregulated agro-processing or other small-business
activities, pollution of land and water due to improper
agrochemical or sewage disposal, etc. To minimize negative impacts,
the CDP will require that all construction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance of infrastructure will adopt best practices for the
region in terms of technology and sustainable use of local
materials. In addition, environmental assessments and mitigation
measures will be required for any sub-projects with potentially
adverse environmental impacts.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category. The Project
will be designed to promote environmentally sustainable investments
by enhancing poor rural communities' capacity to manage their
natural resource base. The CDP will give priority to sub-projects
that maintain or improve environmental conditions; have a positive
impact upon women; are small-scale and technologically simple;
relieve or mitigate impacts of drought; and conform to sectoral
norms and priorities. Examples include: reforestation, grazing
schemes and establishment of community woodlots. The sub-projects
to be proposed by beneficiary communities and local groups and NGOs
will include an impact assessment to evaluate potentially adverse
environmental impacts result from CDP-funded activities and propose
corresponding mitigation actions. In addition, the CDP will build
on the process of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and
the District Environmental Action Program (DEAP), which the
Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) is currently preparing
using a broad consultation approach. In support of efforts to test
and operationalize MET's Interim EIA Policy (see below), the
Project will support EIC training at the provincial, district and
community level to enable local government officials and community
organizations to evaluate any negative environmental impact of sub-
projects (whether they are financed by CDP or not), propose
mitigation measures, and monitor compliance throughout project
implementation. Because these sub-projects are likely to cover
several sectors, the Project will create environmental clearing
mechanisms to ensure appropriate coordination with local
governments and EIA initiatives by sectoral ministries. Also, it is
- 5 -



important to stress that the Project will be designed around a
series of pilot and phase activities to ensure that administrative
structures, environmentally related eligibility criteria and
procedures adapt to communities' various and/or changing needs
(e.g. occurrence of drought, floods, crop loss, etc.).
- 6 -



