Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 171 15-ZIM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 45.0 MILLION
(US $ 60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR A
COMMUNITY ACTION PROJECT
April 21, 1998
Human Development I
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 19, 1998)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$)
Z$1   = US$ 0.62
US$1 = Z$ 16.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (as of January 1, 1999)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC                Association of Rural District Councils
CAP                 Community Action Project
CBO                 Community Based Organization
CPC                 Community Project Committee
CSO          =      Central Statistical Office
DEAP                District Environmental Action Plan
DLRS         =      Department of Labour Research and Statistics
DRC          =      District Review Committee
DSW          =      Department of Social Welfare
ESAP         =      Economic Structural Adjustment Programme
GOZ                 Government of Zimbabwe
ICES                Income Consumption and Expenditure Survey
IDA                 International Development Association
IPMAS               Integrated Poverty Monitoring and Analysis System
MMET                Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism
MPSLSW              Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare
NEPC                National Economic Planning Commission
NGO          =      Non Governmental Organization
PAAP         =      Poverty Alleviation Action Plan
PASS         =      Poverty Assessment Study Survey
PMS          =      Poverty Monitoring Section
PMU          =      Project Management Unit
RDC                 Rural District Council
RDDC                Rural District Development Committee
SDF                 Social Development Fund
TAG                 Technical Advisory Group
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
VCW                 Village Community Workers
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager: Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader: Laura Frigenti



Zimbabwe
Community Action Project
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .........................................2
B: Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1. Sector-related Country  Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported  by the project .............2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................                                         ;.           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed  by the project and strategic choices .....................................5
C: Project Description Summary ....................................................7
I. Project components ....................................................7
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported by the project ...........................................7
3. Benefits and target population ....................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ....................................................9
D: Project Rationale ............................................                                                                       14
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................   15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies... ......... 1 6
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design .......................................................... 16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................   ..... 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..............................................................                        19
E: Summary Project Analysis ..............................................................                                              19
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                          19
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                        21
3. Technical .............................................................. 21
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                     21
5. Social ..............................................................                                                           22
6. Environmental .............................................................. 22
7. Participatory approach  .............................................................. 23
F: Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                              24
]. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                   24
2. Critical Risks ..............................................................                                                    24
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..............................................................                                    26
G: M:ain Loan Conditions ..............................................................                                                26
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..............................................................                                         26
2. Other ..............................................................                                                             26
H: Readiness for Implementation ..............................................................                                         28
I: Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                                                                             28



Annexes
Annex  1.                             Project Design  Summary .......................................... 29
Annex  2.                             Detailed  Project Description ............................................ 34
Annex  3.                             Estimated  Project Costs .......................................... 44
Annex 4.                              Economic Analysis Summary ..........................................                                           45
Annex 5.                              Financial Summary .......................................... 48
Annex  6.                             Procuremenit and  Disbursement Arrangements ......................                                   .......... 49
Table A.                              Project Costs by  Procurement Arrangements.. ................................... 52
Table B.                              Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ............ ....... 53
Table  C.                             Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds .........                           ................................. 54
Annex  7.                             Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule ..........................................                             55
Annex 8.                              Documents in Project File ..........................................                                           56
Annex  9.                             Statement of Loans and  Credits ..........................................                                     57
Aninex 10.                            Country at a Glance .......................................... 58
Annex  I 1.                           Summary  of the Environmental Analysis .......................                              ................... 60
Map



Zimbabwe
Community Action Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
AFCO3
Date: April 21, 1998                                  Task Team Leader: Laura Frigenti
Country Director: Barbara Kafka                       Sector Manager: Ruth Kagia
Project ID: ZW-PE-45031   Sector: Multi-Sector        Program Objective Category: PA
| Lending Instrumenit: SIL                            Program of Targeted Intervention: [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing I)ata               [  Loan   [X] Credit   [] Guarantee         [  Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amounit (US$m/SDRrn): US $ 60 million/SDR 45 million
Proposed terms:                        [X]  Multicurrency []   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years    [    Standard      [    Fixed        []       LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 35 years
Commitment charge: 0 - 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Finanlcing plan (US$m):
Source                            Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                              2.50                               2.50
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                    58.60               1.40           60.00
Commnunity Contribution                                10.50                              10.50
Total       71.60               1.40           73.00
Borrower: Republic of Zimbabwe
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): i) Social Development Fund and ii) Department of Labour Research and Statistics (Ministry of
Public Services, Labour & Social Welfare)
Estimated disburseiments (Bank FY/US$M):        FY99       FY00    FY01  FY02   FY03
Annual         11.20     12.20   12.80   13.40    10.40
Cumulative         11.20     23.40   36.20   49.60    60.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1998
Expected closing date: December 31, 2003



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Community Sub-Projects Component: Project Development Objective - to assist in reducing the
vulnerability of poorer rural communities through fostering opportunities for such communities to
strengthen their capacity to mobilize, implement self-help projects, collaborate with relevant local
institutions and to benefit from the returns of the communal assets they create and maintain.
Poverty Monitoring Component: Project Development Objective - to assist in improving the design
of poverty reduction policies and programs through promoting improvements in the system to monitor the
impact of these policies on the poor.
CAP Key Performance Indicators: 1) Strengthened capacity of beneficiary local communities to: (a)
identify and prioritize needs; (b) plan and implement solutions; (c) manage and maintain investments;
and, (d) apply the experience and lessons learnt to future needs; 2) observable changes in service
quality, coverage, sustainability and use by beneficiaries; 3) increased productive life of created assets
through community-based maintenance.
Poverty Monitoring Key Performance Indicators: I) Increased frequency and quality of data
collection on key poverty indicators; 2) easier access to household data for studies on poverty; 3)
increased analysis and use of such data by central and local planners; 3) effective institutions fulfilliig
the data collection, analysis or reporting functions for which they have a mandate, and avoiding
duplication of functions; 4) increased cooperation between key institutional stakeholders and greater
client responsiveness.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number: 16541 - ZIM Date of latest CAS discussion: May 1, 1997
The key objective of the Bank's assistance strategy in Zimbabwe is to focus on poverty reduction
through: (a) completing the macroeconomic agenda of reform and private sector development in
order to foster sustained growth; (b) strengthening rural development and natural resources
management including the empowerment of local communities to manage economic and social
development; and, (c) promoting poverty reduction through human resources investments,
effective social safety nets, improved targeting and regular monitoring of welfare indicators. The
project fits well within these objectives by strengthening the capacity of selected poor
communities to participate in local resources allocation, improving their access to social and
economic services and their ability to manage natural resources endowments, and promoting use
of local skills, organizations and firms as partners in sub-project implementation. The project
also complements the Rural District Capacity Building Project co-financed by IDA, which is
strengthening the capacity of local government structures to respond to community needs and
demands. The project complements the Park Rehabilitation and Conservation Project (which has
just been negotiated with IDA) in supporting improved natural resources management
approaches. The improved poverty targeting and monitoring sought under the project will



Page 3
provide the tools to chaninel most benefits of social programs to the poor, The time-series data on
welfare indicators expected to be generated under this component will improve the ability to
assess the impact of structural adjustment and other programs on different socio-economic
groups in Zimbabwe.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(i)    Increases in Poverty and Risks to Progress in Human Development. There are several
indiications, noted in the Bank's report Understanding Poverty and Human Resources in
Zimbabwe (December 1996) and elsewhere, that poverty has increased in Zimbabwe over the
1990s. At the beginning of the nineties, Zimbabwe appeared to have achieved levels of poverty
prevalence, primary health care and education coverage and quality which were very favorable
compared to other countries in Southern Africa and Africa more broadly. Some of this progress
is being undermined due to a combination of factors, including the slow response to structural
adjustment reforms, continued high fiscal deficits, increased drought vulnerability and the
burgeoning AIDS crisis. This has led to increased poverty (estimates for which are being
developed using comparable national household data sets), strains on social cohesion (as
evidenced by strikes and instances of land encroachment), weakening of agricultural support
services for smallholder farmers, continuing soil degradation and deteriorating social and
economic infrastructure.
(ii)    The effectiveness of social assistance programs needs to be improved. In the 1990s, the GOZ
undertook large-scale transfer programs such as the Supplementary Feeding Program and the
Grain Loan Scheme, as well as establishing the Social Development Fund (SDF) to administer
assistance programs which were primarily designed to reach retrenched workers. The SDF was
established as a statutory fund under the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare
(MPSLSW). The first two programs were successful in reaching the rural poor. but were
untargeted, loan recovery was weakly enforced and the large scale of the programs led to
difficulties in sustaining them fiscally, They have also contributed to creating a dependency in
communities for transfers from the state. At the same time, evaluation reports suggest that the
SD]F has reached limited numbers of its intended beneficiaries (mostly retrenched formal sector
employees) and transferred a relatively small amount of resources, largely due to complex
means- tested eligibility requirements and inadequate staffing. Public spending on basic health
and education services have been protected as shares of the public budget, but are at historically
low levels in real per capita terms.
The Government has responded with an explicit focus on poverty issues through articulation of a
Poverty Alleviation Action Plan (PAAP) first tabled in 1994. The PAAP is coordinated by the
MPSLSW. As part of PAAP implementation, the GOZ is restructuring its main poverty
reduction programs. Recovery efforts under the Grain Loan Scheme have reportedly been
strengthened. The SDF, which coordinated the GOZ's Poverty Alleviation Action Plan, has been
restructured to separate the functions of: (a) grants for community mobilization to create
communal assets; and, (b) loans for micro-enterprises. A third function, that of monitoring
poverty, has also been added. The SDF has also been accorded financial autonomy which is
expected to improve its ability to channel funds to the grassroots level with flexibility and
efficiency. The SDF's constitution and functions have been redefined to reflect a focus on
structural poverty rather than transitory poverty. The emphasis of the GOZ's welfare programs is
novw on encouraging self-help rather than on straightforward transfers.



Page 4
The GOZ has also initiated a decentralizationi program. Local governmenit structures, known as
Rural Districts Councils (RDCs), are being strengthiened through a multi-donor financed RDC
Capacity-Building Program. Policies regarding local authorities' responsibilities in raising
revenues, cross-sectoral coordination, financinig and delivery of basic services are, however, at an
early stage. The capacity of RDCs is variable. with weaker capacity expected in poor districts.
RDCs are in the process of developinig their ability to work with village structures to facilitate
participation of vulnerable groups. It is expected that strengthened local government structures
will improve the quality and delivery of services, especially to poorer communities.
(iii)   The Structural Adjustment Program Has Been Unpopular. The structural reform program,
known as ESAP, has been very unpopular in Zimbabwe. Although ESAP was designed through
a broadly consultative process involvinig labor unions, NGOs, the academic and journalist
community, these constituencies were by and large left behind by GOZ during the
implementation phase of structural adjustment. Although key reforms in trade, foreign exchange,
investment and labor regulation undertakeni during the 1990s have placed the economy on a more
competitive footing, the failure to reduce fiscal deficits and the financing of the deficit through
domestic debt has resulted in continued high real interest rates, crowding out private investment,
Furthermore, the continuing high fiscal deficit has led to sustained high inflation, eroding the
purchasing power of fixed income groups, and keeping growth below expected levels.
Moreover, the period of ESAP reforms coincided with a severe drought in Zimbabwe. This led
many people to equate the impact of the drought with the changes in employment and wages
being induced by structural adjustments.
Additionally, in late 1997 and early 1998, Zimbabwe has experienced a severe crisis in financial
markets. These recent problems originated in a substantial drop in the price of mineral and
tobacco exports at a time when imports were rising rapidly due to overvaluation of the exchange
rate and uncertainties concerning the fiscal policy (e.g. how the war veterans pensions would be
financed) and land reform. While the crisis has subsided, the financial situation is still fragile and
a deterioration can be triggered by external or domestic uncertainties. Continued stabilization in
macro parameters and an acceleration of growth is more likely if the GOZ economic reform
strategy were to focus on a combination of tight monitoring of fiscal and monetary policies, debt
composition restructuring (i.e. multi-lateral concessionary for domestic commercial), maintainiig
the country's capacity to deliver adequate social sector services, financial sector reform,
clarification of land policies and accelerated privatization of state enterprises.
Sustained growth is expected to benefit the poor in the longer term through employment effects,
linkages (multiplier and remittances) and increased revenue availability for social service
provision. In the short-term, increased resource flows to poorer regions and groups need to be
ensured in order to arrest further deterioration in living conditions and to build the capital base of
the poor. These resource flows need to be better targeted in order to improve the cost-effective
use of scarce public resources.
(iv)   The Social Crisis Has Deepened In Recent Months. More recently, riots and mass protests
have occurred in both commercial farming and urban areas. These have occurred around, among
other things, the poor living conditions and rights of farm workers on commercial farms, as well
as in response to steep price escalations in essential commodities which have had serious
implications for the welfare of low-income groups in all areas. It is widely acknowledged that
the public are also concerned about the ability of the government to maintain sound fiscal policy.
Furthermore, there is concern in the country regarding the need to strengthen the mechanisms for
public dialogue between the GOZ and civil society on issues of economic reform opportunities,



Page 5
costs, social implications, progress indicators and roles of the various social partners. Thus,
while short-term mitigating measures may assist in alleviating the impact of price increases on
the poor, this cannot substitute for measures to correct and maintain economic fundamentals, and
mechianisms for improved and sustained dialogue between Government and civil society on
economic policy.
The Government is exploring options regarding the most effective way to respond to this crisis.
A National Economic Consultative Forum comprised of Government, private sector, the labor
movement and civil society groups has been established as part of the effort to establish a public
dialogue. Of particular relevance to the poverty and social development programs is the Incomes
and Pricing Policy Sub-Committee of the National Economic Consultative Forum. The terms of
reference of this sub-committee include: looking into the possibilities of sharing the costs of the
economic adjustment program among different social groups; seeking a balance between wage
and price increases including the possibility of establishing a social contract between
goveirnmenit, the private sector and labor; and undertaking research and recommending
appropriate measures to ensure the sustainability of the social contract and enhanced
productivity.
(v)    Poverty Information Is not Well-Coordinated. Relevant data is collected by several
institutions and yet some key data, such as on consumption/incomes, is not available on a regular
enough basis. As a result, there are different interpretations of current poverty levels and changes
over the last decade. Analysis of data is constrained by, on the one hand, institutional technical
capacity to release data while protecting the confidentiality of respondents' information, and on
the other hand, by weak ability of institutions to retain analytical capacity. Channels to ensure
use of analysis of poverty indicators are also fragmented.
A core component of the GOZ's PAAP is the regular production and use of data on poverty
indicators to track the effectiveness of policies and programs in reducing poverty and improving
the quality of life. To this end, the GOZ has conducted a Poverty Assessment Study Survey
(PASS) in 1995. This survey has generated a large amount of information on socio-economic
characteristics of households, but was a one-off survey. The challenge now is to generate
poverty information and stimulate its use in policy formulation on an ongoing and sustainable
basis. Towards this end, the Government has recently (November 1997) initiated the
establishment of an information coordinating framework known as the Integrated Poverty
Monitoring and Analysis System (IPMAS). The goal of the IPMAS is to provide comprehensive
information on a continuous, timely and sustainable basis to create a better understanding of the
poverty situation in Zimbabwe and enable policymakers and other development agents to reduce
poverty. The project concept of this IPMAS is itself being developed through a collaborative
effort under the initiative of the MPSLSW and involving Government, NGOs, research groups
and financing agencies.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i)    Pronioting Self-Help rather than State-Dependency. The Community Sub-Project component
of the CAP will support one of the key components of the GOZ's Poverty Alleviation Action
Plan: empowerment of poor communities. It will support the capacity of communities to
prioritize needs, give recognition to the needs of vulnerable groups, share the costs, implement
activities of communal benefit and manage natural resources well. This approach is consistent
with the Government's new emphasis on self-help, rather than dependency on state hand-outs.



Page 6
(ii)    Complementing Local Government Strengthening. The project will complement the
decentralization and local government strengthening efforts underway. It will strengthen
participation by relatively weaker vulnerable communities in local planning, resource allocation
and project implementation processes. It is expected that increased community ownership of
resource allocation and service delivery decisions will increase the accountability demanded of
local government and sector personnel. A dedicated field officer will be appointed as part of
each RDC staff to facilitate CAP implementation, who will work closely with local government
structures and local sector personnel and NGOs in reviewing project proposals. The RDCs will
be consulted in the process of approval of funding for CAP projects. Through this interaction it
is hoped that local governments will further improve their abilities to coordinate investment
resources in local planning, and to respond effectively to community demands, especially those
generated by poorer communities within the district.
(iii) Promoting Local-level Environmental Planning. The project is consistent with and will
provide financial support for the District Environmental Action Planning (DEAP) process
coordinated by the Department of Natural Resources of the MMET. The DEAP is an ongoing
strategic action planning and implementation process to engage rural communities at the district
level in: (a) assessing their rural well-being and the well-being of their environment; (b)
identifying their needs, priority actions and strategies to meet their needs; (c) empowering
communities and RDCs to meet communities' needs through sustainable development
interventions; and (d) facilitating a process for cross-sectoral planning which is coordinated at the
district level.
(iv)   Targeting Resource Flows. The targeting design feature of the CAP mainly addresses poverty
objectives and will enable the transfer of resources to the relatively poorer regions. It also pilots
resource rules which weight resources to poorer districts, which can be mainstreamed into the
revenue sharing formula across RDCs and the normal functioning of all RDCs at a later stage.
Project operations will focus on the poorest 26 rural districts, as identified through a district
ranking exercise developed for CAP utilizing a composite index of basic needs indicators (see
Annex 4). With these most disadvantaged districts, resources will be earmarked for individual
districts in different proportions, based on the district's basic needs rank and population.
Furthermore, the project will provide support for the development of an intra-district poverty map
for each district, to be developed utilizing qualitative and other information in consultation with
local government, sectoral, NGO personnel and traditional leaders. The poverty maps will be
utilized by the project to monitor resource flows to the poorest communities within a district.
(v)    Promoting Consultation with Civil Society. The approach used during project preparation, and
which will be maintained during project implementation, is a key forum for the continuing effort
by the GOZ and the Bank to be more responsive to the concerns of local civil society regarding
poverty reduction activities in Zimbabwe. The GOZ and the Bank preparation teams have
consulted widely with NGOs, the academic community and other donors, on the content and role
of the CAP project. A first round of systematic consultation with local communities to explore
procedures, implementation arrangements and areas of intervention for CAP, was completed in
July 1997.
(vi)   Improving Availability of Timely, Policy-Relevant Information. The second component of
the project supports another main component of the GOZ's Poverty Alleviation Action Plan:
monitoring poverty, or making information available to track the impact of policies and programs
on economic and social living conditions. The poverty monitoring component will strengthen the
availability, quality and coordination of collection, analysis, dissemination and use of data on



Page 7
poverty and social indicators. It intends to promote greater collaboration between institutions
which have comparative advantage in one respect or the other relevant to poverty monitoring
needs, thereby improving the cost-effectiveness and institutional sustainability of the monitoring
system. A year-long program of poverty analysis capacity-building in the Central Statistical
Office (CSO) and the SDF was initiated in July 1997 as part of project preparation.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component             Category        Cost Incl.    % of        Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total      financing    Bank-
_ _ _ __ _    (US$M)         (US$M)   financing
(i) Community sub-projects       works,
(including social mobilization,  goods,
infrastructure, improved natural  services,      60.5          83%        50.0       83%
resources management, training and  training
capacity building for local
communities)
(ii) Poverty monitoring and analysis  goods,
(technical assistance, study fund,    training,
survey enhiancement, training and    consultant   3.0           4%         3.0        5%
capacity-building, workshops,    services,
dissemination)                   operating
costs
(iii) CAP institutional support  goods,
(administration and operating costs, training,
beneficiary assessments,         consultant       9.5          13%         7.0       12%
Environmental Impact Assessment,  services,
training and capacity building for    operating
CAP staff)                       costs
Total          73.0          100%        60.0      100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Consistency with multi-sectoral Government policies: As mentioned in Section B.3 above, the project
is designed to support two key components of the GOZ's Poverty Alleviation Action Plan: empowerment
of poor communities and poverty monitoring. It will also complement the Government's ongoing effort
to strengthen decentralization, improve targeting of resources and build the capacity of local authorities to
respond to community demands.
Consistency with specific sectoral standards and guidelines: The CAP Management Unit will ensure
that the technical standards of individual community sub-projects (e.g. in rural water supply or teachers'
accommodation, Environmental Impact Assessment, etc.) will be consistent with national standards and



Page 8
guidelines enforced in the respective sectors. However, the labor-content of small infrastructure projects
may be increased to be higher than current standards to better enable communities to contribute labor as
part of their cost-sharing effort.
For the poverty monitoring component, discussions are underway with the CSO on ways to
enhance its technical capacity to release data on official household welfare indicators while
protecting the confidentiality of survey respondents.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
The first component of the project is expected to strengthen the capacity of poor communities to organize
themselves, and to plan and implement activities responsive to their needs. Specifically the component is
expected to result in: (i) shift in attitudes of communities away from passive acceptance of state transfers
to increased reliance on self-help initiatives coupled with more effective demands for accountability of
local service providers (public and private); (ii) improved livelihoods through rehabilitated and new
communal infrastructure, improved quality of social and technical services, improved natural resources
management and drought preparedness, stronger community organizations and partnerships between
communities, NGOs and local government, innovative risk-sharing mechanisms, training, etc.; (iii)
increased investment flows to poorer rural districts and to priority activities of poor communities within
these districts; (iv) responsiveness of RDCs and NGOs to demands of poor communities and the poor
within those communities; (v) improved capacity of NGOs and CBOs to mobilize funds for community
priorities; (vi) strengthened capacity of SDF management and staff, as well as of line ministries, local
governments and other public and private institutions involved in the implementation of CAP-financed
sub-projects; and, (vii) in the longer term, by building social cohesion and capital, the project will
enhance the ability of the poor within communities to take advantage of future growth prospects.
The second component of the project is expected to result in: (i) reduction of duplications and gaps in
coverage by data collection instruments; (ii) increased availability and integration of quantitative and
qualitative data necessary at different levels of planning for monitoring impact of policies/programs on
the poor; (iii) easier access to household data for studies on poverty; (iv) improved capacity in poverty
analysis across different institutions; (v) increased use of such data to formulate and update the poverty
reduction strategy of which CAP is an element; (vi) improved institutional sustainability of data
collection and analysis on living conditions.
Target Population
i. The target population are poorer communities in rural areas. Special consideration will be given to
specific vulnerable and disadvantaged groups (e.g. women, children, landless, elderly, unemployed,
etc.) in the criteria for sub-project selection.
ii. Poorest districts in each province have been identified through a geographic targeting methodology
using available information on basic needs. The project will operate in the 26 (out of 57) rural
districts with the lowest basic needs indicators as indicated in the district ranking exercise developed
for the project (see Annex 4).
iii. A resource allocation formula to guide overall funding ceilings for community sub-projects for each
district has been developed, using a combination of the basic needs composite indicator and the
population of the district.



Page 9
iv. Within each district, poorer communities will be identified using available data on access to services,
and in collaboration with district authorities and the RDC field officer for CAP.
v. NGOs, CBOs and other formal/informal social institutions will be used as intermediary organizations
and paLrtners in the community strengthening and service delivery process.
vi. In the poverty monitoring component, funds for studies, surveys, capacity-building and dissemination
tools will be made available to key data collection and user institutions in the public domain (e.g.
DLRS, SDF, CSO, DSW, line ministries), the research community and NGOs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period for Project: Five years.
Executing Agency: (i) Community sub-project and CAP institutional support components. The
management of the components is placed structurally under the SDF, a semi-autonomous statutory fund
with the administrative status of a full department within the MPSLSW. SDF is headed by a director who
reports to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry. (ii) Poverty monitoring component: The Poverty
Monitoring Section (PMS) of the Department of Labour Research and Statistics (DLRS) of the MPSLSW
will serve as the secretariat unit for the Integrated Poverty Monitoring and Analysis System (IPMAS) of
Zimbabwe. In this capacity, the DLRS through its PMS will manage the activities under the poverty
monitoring component of the project.
An Operational Manual for the community sub-projects component has been prepared by the
Government team. It is a substantially satisfactory document which has been finalized and agreed upon
during project negotiations. It includes the basic guidelines for guiding the sub-project cycle,
procurement of goods and services, disbursement arrangements, accounting and reporting requirements.
The poverty monitoring component is regarded as a consensus- and capacity-building component, and its
design continues to be defined. The main implementation arrangements and program elements proposed
thus far are described at the end of this section. These arrangements are to be finalized in the next
months and will be documented in an Operational Document. The poverty monitoring component will
have separate conditions of disbursement to reflect the different stage of development of the program vis-
a-vis the other two components of the project.
(i) Main implementation arrangements for the community sub-projects component:
CAP Management Unit: The project will be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU) composed
of a Project Manager appointed by the GOZ, supported by three Units: Technical Support Services,
Monitoring, and Finance and Administration Units.
The Project Manager reports to the SDF Advisory Board through the Deputy Director (Operations) of
SDF. He is responsible for the day to day operations of CAP, including the following functions: (i)
facilitate the recruitment and administration of personnel following basic principles laid out in the
Operational Manual; (ii) prepare and submit to the SDF Deputy Director (Operations) and SDF Advisory
Board CAP's Annual Work Program and Budget; (iii) ensure administration of project financial resources
in accordance with the regulations reflected in the Operational Manual; (iv) coordinate, supervise and
provide logistical support to the field activities of CAP; (v) promote CAP's activities throughout the
country; (vi) negotiate and sign contracts related to the management of CAP; (vii) coordinate the



Page 10
preparation of quarterly and annual reports on CAP activities, to be submitted to the Deputy Director of
SDF and SDF Advisory Board; and, (viii) coordinate all relations and communications of CAP with
government officials, political leaders, the private sector, donors and other interested parties.
A PAAP Development/ Training Specialist and two Project Analysts (Infrastructure Planning and
Water/Natural Resource Management) will staff the Technical Support Services Unit. Additional
expertise will be provided on short-term consultancy bases as needed in response to demand during
project implementation. The skills mix of the Unit has been determined by the functions envisaged for the
Unit. The Unit will work with the RDC PAAP Officers in each district where CAP is operational. Its
primary responsibility will be to provide appropriate support systems to ensure efficiency and
effectiveness in project review, implementation, co-ordination and monitoring.
The Unit will be responsible for coordination of community mobilization efforts and ensuring that
standard designs, specifications, quantity-cost schedules for material and labor, and unit-cost estimates
for projects commonly proposed by communities are available. It will assist, on request by the PAAP
Officers, in preparing standard project documentation for new types of projects and documentation for
projects of a complex site-specific nature. Assigned staff of the Unit will ensure that environmental
considerations and the needs of the very poor and marginalized people are addressed at all stages of
project development and implementation.  They will also facilitate environmental assessments for
projects likely to have an adverse impact on the environment in keeping with GOZ Environmental Impact
Assessment regulations. The Unit will ensure submission of community project accounts, quarterly
reports and project completion reports to the RDC and to the CAP MU. The PAAP Specialist in the Unit
will co-ordinate implementation of the CAP's Information, Education and Communication activities (see
below), as well as develop training programs for community committees, VCWs, partners and district
services required for effective project implementation, and determine and arrange for provision of needed
social mobilization support to ensure participation of poor and vulnerable populations.
The Monitoring Unit will be staffed by a Monitoring Officer and two Data Capture Clerks. The Unit will
be responsible for managing and refining over time the project monitoring system. The Unit will
undertake routine data collection and entry, and maintain project databases into a Management
Information System. It will monitor implementation progress, cost and project management, and take
active measures to ensure effective coverage of target populations. It will verify project disbursements
and accounts and monitor progress, quality and financial aspects of on-going projects by means of the
PAAP Officers' reports and targeted site inspection visits.  The Unit will develop reporting and
disbursement formats for the PAAP Officers' monthly monitoring statements, quarterly reports, project
disbursement tranche reports, technical supervisor's monthly summary and project-specific reports, and
the communities' regular project progress checklists. This Unit will be responsible for developing and
maintaining a Unit Cost Database, i.e., a regularly updated cost database for items commonly purchased
for community projects, with national and provincial level data, and ultimately with district level data.
The Unit Cost Database information will be provided by the Unit to the PAAP Officers for use by
communities.
The Finance and Administration Unit will be staffed by an Accountant, who will have two bookkeepers, a
typist/secretary, driver and messenger reporting to him/her. The Unit will be responsible for developing
administrative policies to ensure smooth project implementation and administer conditions of service
(recruitment, staff welfare, discipline, performance appraisal system and day to day duties as specified in
this manual) of project staff. It will procure, manage and distribute equipment and supplies as required
by the Management Unit. It will disburse funds to communities for approved projects and monitor
financial trends, replenishment application, disbursement and reconciliation of accounts for the
community sub-projects and CAP institutional support components. It will also prepare withdrawal



Page I I
applications for submission to IDA and prepare monthly, quarterly and annual financial reports on CAP
activities. The Unit will work very closely with the Department of Finance and Administration of the SDF
and the MPSLSW.
PAAP Officers and RDC committees: At the field level, CAP activities are to be administered through
the RDCs. The decision to integrate social fund implementation fully within the decentralized structures
of government is consistent with Government's policy on decentralization and ongoing efforts to avoid
parallel implementation structures at the district level. The Operational Manual calls for a dedicated staff
member in each of the implementing RDCs, to be termed the PAAP Officer, who is to be identified from
among existing RDC staff or recruited and employed directly by the RDC, based on a jointly (RDC-SDF)
agreed job description and performance requirements. This PAAP Officer would report directly to the
RDC through its internal structure. A reporting relationship would also exist between the CAP
Management Unit and the PAAP Officer for CAP implementation.
The RDC will ensure adequate administrative support for the efficient and timely completion of CAP
activities. CAP will provide a determined amount of funds to the RDC to help defray these costs.
A District Review Committee will be established to review project proposals and oversee all projects
being implernented in a particular district. Its composition will be determined at RDC level in
collaboration with the PAAP Officer. The DRC is not intended to be a separate structure. Rather it is to
be a sub-cornmittee of the Rural District Council. The DRC will recommend projects for approval by the
RDC in cases where the project size is below US $ 50,000. For projects above this threshold. the
approval decision will be taken by a national Grants Allocation Committee (see below).
Legal Agreement between CAP and RDCs: The relationship between SDF and the RDC regarding the
implementation of the CAP is to be formally codified in a legal implementation agreement between the
two parties: SDF of MPSLSW and each involved RDC. The agreement will contain explicit information
regarding the job description and qualifications of the person to be assigned responsibility for
implementing CAP at the district level, performance evaluation criteria and procedures, reporting
requirements, and compensation and motivation norms. The agreement will also contain provisions for
dealing with problems in the implementation of the program in the district and any other issues that affect
the relationship between SDF and the RDC.
Project Coordination: CAP will be coordinated by the overall SDF Advisory Board. The SDF Advisory
Board is comprised of members from the public and private sector and constituted to advise the
Permanent Secretary for Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare on issues of policy affecting all
programs under the SDF. With respect to the CAP, the main responsibility of the Board will be to ensure
that policies and procedures are developed and applied to guide the effective implementation and
successful completion of CAP projects in line with GOZ objectives. It will also recommend to the
Secretary the approval of the annual work plans of the CAP Management Unit, review progress of
implementation and the geographical distribution of projects, and ensure that progress is in line with CAP
objectives and strategy. Members of the SDF Advisory Board will include representatives from various
Government ministries, social development programs, NGOs and the private sector. A detailed list is
provided in the Operational Manual.
In line with the principle of CAP being a quick-dispensing source of funding for poverty
reduction activities at the community level, approval authority for small project proposals under
US $ 50,000 will be delegated to the RDCs, as described above. Larger projects, however, will
be submitted to the Grants Allocation Committee (GAC), a sub-committee of the SDF Advisory
Board, for approval. The GAC will be composed of representatives from MPSLSW, NEPC,



Page 12
Ministry of Local Government and National Housing, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Resources and the Ministry of Environment, with members from Ministries of Health and
Education co-opted from time to time. The decisions of the GAC will be communicated to the
applying communities through the PAAP Officer in the respective RDC.
(ii) Main implementation arrangements for the poverty monitoring component:
Institutional roles: The poverty monitoring component will provide financial support across different
aspects of the Government's Integrated Poverty Monitoring and Analysis System (IPMAS). The
institutional structure and responsibilities of the IPMAS are expected to be guided by two key principles:
i) the need to facilitate exchange and collaboration between key stakeholders; and ii) the reliance on
existing mandates and comparative technical advantages of institutions, and hence assigning an activity
the institutional home which maximizes the likelihood of sustainability of the activity.
Technical Advisory Group (TAG): it is proposed that a multi-agency TAG is established to guide the
development of the System and to provide opportunities for regular technical exchanges between
institutional partners on poverty information and its use. TAG membership will be drawn from central
planning bodies, line ministries, the CSO, research institutions, NGOs, the private sector and donors. The
TAG is expected to meet at least on a quarterly basis to provide technical guidance to the poverty
monitoring annual workprogram. Sub-committees of the TAG are expected to be established to provide
guidance on specific thematic areas (e.g. operations of the Poverty Study Fund). The TAG will be
chaired by the MPSLSW. Its secretariat will be the DLRS of the MSPSLW (see below).
The TAG's functions will include: i) facilitating agreement on priority information needs on poverty, and
phasing expansion of IPMAS support for data/information at other levels; ii) the approval of research
priorities for use of the IPMAS Study Fund; iii) promoting discussion of technical data collection
design/implementation issues, findings and policy implications; iv) facilitating discussion on
complementarity of various quantitative data systems (e.g. household surveys from various sources,
administrative monitoring systems such as HIS) and qualitative information, with a few to minimizing
duplication; v) commissioning priority studies and responding through task force assignment to special or
urgent analysis requests of national importance; vi) advising on strategic institutional capacity
strengthening needed to deliver these outputs in a timely and cost-effective way; vii) approving a 4-5 year
rolling workprogram and resource estimate, as well as the Annual Workprogram and Budgets for
IPMAS-supported activities; and viii) clearance of the IPMAS Operational Document (see below).
Poverty Monitoring Section of the Dept. of Labour Research and Statistics, MPSLSW (DLRS-PMS):
The Dept. of Labour Research and Statistics, MPSLSW (through its staff in a newly established Poverty
Monitoring Section) will serve as secretariat for the Technical Advisory Group. The DLRS will play an
information co-ordinating function in the IPMAS. It will be supported in core analysis functions by a
Policy Analysis Unit in the SDF and by the Dept. of Social Welfare. Together, the three MPSLSW
Departments will constitute the IPMAS Hub which will be the clearing house for IPMAS information
flows.
The DLRS-PMS will be headed by a Poverty Monitoring Manager reporting to the Head of the DLRS.
The Manager will be supported by assigned senior and clerical staff of the PMS (to be determined) and
also the staff of the other units of the IPMAS Hub. The main functions of the DLRS-PMS will include i)
convening TAG meetings and following up on decisions of the Group, ii) creation and regular updating
of sourcebook on poverty studies and data sources, iii) co-ordination of information supplied from line
ministries, CSO, qualitative assessments and other sources; iv) preparation of guidelines for the
management of a Study Fund for the funding and contracting of studies to be prioritized by TAG and
undertaken by Universities, research institutes, consultants, line ministries; this will include the
preparation of TOR, timeline that includes dates for submission of proposal against TOR and dates of



Page 13
decision notification, and the review process; v) management of Study Fund; vi) specialized labor market
studies as recommended by TAG; vii) organizing IPMAS task force to respond to requests for poverty
analysis oni special issues or during national emergencies; viii) organizing and funding national and
regional workshops to review the Annual Poverty Reports, special seminars and other creative means of
dissemination and promotion of discussion on poverty issues; ix) provide technical assistance to local
governments on use, interpretation and dissemination of poverty information; x) sub-contract the regular
participatory beneficiary assessments to evaluate the Community Action Project; xi) preparation of
Annual Workprograms and Budgets for IPMAS for TAG approval and xii) preparing for TAG approval
the IPMAS Operational Document.
Policy Analysis Unit, SDF: The SDF will assign two policy analyst positions to establish a Policy
Analysis UJnit (SDF-PAU). This unit will lead the preparation of an Annual Report on Poverty in
Zimbabwe, and an agreed number of policy briefs per year. The staff posts have been approved by the
Public Services Commission.
Dept. of Social Welfare, MPSLSW: The Department will prepare an annual review of the effectiveness
of GOZ safety net programs. The review will utilize information from Sentinel Surveys and other
relevant aclministrative data. The Department will also conduct specialized studies as identified by TAG.
Senior Officials Committee on Drought and Poverty, and the Cabinet Committee on Drought and
Poverty: The recommendations and findings generated through the IPMAS analysis will be channeled to
senior policy makers on these committees by the Hub through the Secretary, MPSLSW. In this way, a
mechanism will be gradually developed to improve the use of poverty information by policy makers at
the highest levels.
CSO: The CSO is expected to play a central role in the data system supporting the IPMAS. In order to
facilitate the process by which the CSO can play this vital role, a Poverty Unit is being considered in the
CSO. Its functions are expected to be: i) to represent CSO in the poverty monitoring Technical Advisory
Group, ii) to channel poverty data requests and issues to the CSO for follow-up technical action by the
CSO, iii) tihe regular preparation of the basic poverty profile analysis of the CSO's household survey data
as an inpul: into the IPMAS's Annual Poverty Reports; and iv) preparation of 5-year trends analysis of
poverty corresponding to the ICES cycle.
There are two main areas where the CSO is expected to participate in the IPMAS: i) an expanded and
more integrated household survey program; and ii) preparation and implementation of household data
release guidelines and technical capacity which enables greater access to data while fully protecting
respondent confidentiality.
Regarding the household data release guidelines, CSO management will draw on international technical
assistance to review the issues and experiences of other CSOs in this area. On this basis, they are
expected to develop management and technical capacity for improved access to data, and to undertake a
social marketing campaign to inform all stakeholders.
Regarding the household survey program, the TAG will be expected to indicate data needs which the
CSO will review and take steps to include into the core module of the CSO's household survey program.
This expanded core module will then be fielded in conjunction with a series of in-depth modules (e.g.
DHS, labor force survey) in a planned sequence. It is expected that by expanding the core module, two
important diimensions of poverty informationi will be addressed: i) more frequent (possibly annual)
updating of poverty levels and its distribution, and ii) analysis of a large range of access and outcome
indicators by socio-economic groups (SEG). CSO will identify and take the necessary steps needed to
accommodate IPMAS and other user-needs for data and analysis by land-use groups and/or the
administrative level of the district.



Page 14
The CSO will continue to generate timely national accounts and regionally disaggregated CPI
information which will be necessary to complete the poverty analysis for the Annual Reports.
Other private and public monitoring and planning units: These units and institutions (e.g. FEWS, Health
Information System, etc.) will be invited to participate in the Technical Advisory Group, and to contribute
to the preparation of the Annual Reports on Poverty, and other joint reports of the IPMAS. Furthermore,
in order for the IPMAS to generate analysis of the distribution and incidence of public expenditures in
health, education, social assistance, etc., the planning units of these ministries will be encouraged to
maintain reliable, timely and disaggregated public expenditure accounts of their respective sectors.
Public and private research units, university researchers, training institutes: A Poverty Study fund will be
established, with specific guidelines on access/use, which can be utilized to finance priority analysis by a
range of such institutions. A regular participatory poverty assessment using qualitative techniques will be
a particularly important study which will be sub-contracted by the DLRS-PMS to a suitable institution
identified through competition.
Donors: Donors and funding agencies are expected to play a co-ordinated role in the poverty monitoring
system. The Government has indicated that it will pursue co-financing rather than parallel funding for the
IPMAS.
IPMAS Operational Document: The full implementation arrangements for the poverty monitoring
component will continue to be developed, and presented in an Operational Framework to be submitted to
IDA as a condition of disbursements under this component of the project. The IPMAS Operational
Document will lay out the main objectives and principles of the IPMAS, the implementation
arrangements, terms of reference and job descriptions, workprogram and outputs, resource requirements
and financing plan for 4-5 years which will be subsequently used to guide IPMAS operations. On an
annual basis, the DLRS-PMS will also prepare for TAG approval a detailed Annual Workprogram and
Budget for the IPMAS. It will also enter into implementation agreements with other parts of Government
(e.g. the CSO) as needed, to facilitate execution of activities under the approved IPMAS Annual
Workprograms and Budgets. A draft implementation agreement and detailed workprogram and budget
for year I will be attached as Annexes to the Operational Document. The DLRS-PMS, together with the
other units of the IPMAS Hub will be responsible for preparing the Operational Document and Annual
Workprograms and Budgets, for clearance by the TAG and approval by IDA.
Management of funds: The Poverty Monitoring Manager in the IPMAS Hub will have overall
responsibility for ensuring proper utilization of project funds for poverty monitoring activities as per the
agreed workprogram and budget in the IPMAS Operational Document and Annual Workplan and
Budgets. As needed and indicated in the approved workprograms and budgets for the IPMAS, the
DLRS-PMS will enter into implementation agreements with other parts of Government to transfer an
operating costs budget to the implementing agency in order that they may carry out the activities outlined
in the annual workprograms. Project accounts and financial records for the poverty monitoring
component will be maintained by the Finance and Administration Unit of the CAP PMU.



Page 15
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Merger with RDC Capacity Building Project: A proposal was made that the CAP could be merged
with the RDC/CBP project, especially since the latter would also finance some community-executed
projects. Concerins existed that the availability of CAP financing for infrastructure projects within RDC
mandate will create perverse incentives for communities and RDCs: communities may ignore RDCs,
undermininiig RDCs authorities, while RDCs may learn not to allocate funds to poor communities if CAP
resources are guaranteed to them.
The merger option was considered and rejected by the GOZ. CAP has been designed to support the
empowermTenit of poor communities. It will create incentives for communities to prioritize needs, share
the costs, implement activities of communal benefit and manage natural resources more sustainably. This
approach vvill reinforce the Government's new emphasis on self-help.
CAP has been designed in such a way as to allow testing different modalities for communities, NGOs and
RDCs to work together in planninig and allocating resources. Nonetheless, the strategy adopted by CAP
is that of promoting partnership with local governments, as evidenced by the decision to implement the
CAP through a designated PAAP Officer of the RDC. Moreover, CAP has developed procedures,
including the involvement of RDCs at early approval stage, to ensure that CAP investments do not
duplicate other investments planned in the District Development Plan or generate unsustainable recurrent
expenditures.
Project Components: The option of including micro-credit for income generating projects has been
rejected because the SDF already has a separate window dealing with this type of activity.
Choice of Executing Agency for the Community Sub-Projects Component: Donors have raised
concerns that the SDF does not have field presence and that the house of a community action program
should be in an agency which has more direct involvement with the "life of the community" such as the
Ministry of Local Government or the Ministry of National Affairs. There is also donor concern that the
SDF does not yet have a high enough political profile to elicit the intra-minislerial support and national
momentum generally required for the success of this kind of program.
The choice of the SDF as the parent unit was because the MPSLSW has mandate for ensuring the
implementation of the GOZ Poverty Alleviation Action Plan. Within the MPSLSW, the SDF unit is the
Department which is most directly responsible for issues in structural poverty in contrast to social
welfare. Over the course of project preparation, the SDF has strengthened its semi-autonomous status
and mobilized an inter-ministerial (plus NGOs) Steering Committee and Executive Management
Committee to guide project preparation. SDF has been allocated additional staff positions by the Public
Services Commission to help implement the CAP at the central level. At the field level CAP will be
implemented through field officers hired as RDC staff dedicated to the CAP program (see section on
CAP structure and implementation arrangements). Finally, the SDF, and more broadly the MPSLSW,
has already demonstrated leadership in promoting awareness of poverty issues and coordinating poverty
and drought mitigation interventions. Consequently, it has succeeded in raising the profile of poverty
issues in the national policy agenda.



Page 16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                          Project              Latest Supervision (Form  590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Local Government Strengthening              Rural District Capacity              S                  S
Building Project (FY97)
Local Government Project
( FY00)
Agriculture Development Support             Agricultural Services and
Management Project (FY98)
Health Sector Support                       Family Health 11 (FY92)             S                   S
STI (FY93)                          S                   S
Family Health IlI (FY99)
Reform and Community Participation in NRM   Park Rehabilitation and
Conservation Project
Capacity Building Project
(FY99)
Other development agencies
Community-executed Infrastructure Projects  ElIJ Microprojects, Africa
2000, Plan International
Strengthening Community Participation in    USAID and Zimtrust
NRM                                         supported CAMPFIRE
programs, CARE, ENDA,
OCCZIM, and other NGO
Projects
District Environmental Action Plan (DEAP)   DNR, UNDP, IUCN
Poverty/Social Dimension Monitoring         UNICEF Sentinel
Surveillance Surveys, UNDP
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Based on Zimbabwe's Experience
(i)   Targeting is necessary to ensure that transfers to the poor are fiscally affordable. This dimension
has been reflected in inter-district and intra-district poverty and deprivation criteria which are
being developed as part of the targeting strategy for CAP. Also, community mobilization efforts
will maximize the benefits of the most needy groups.
(ii)   Strengthening of community capacity to prioritize and implement projects needs to be supported
with funds to finance actual implementation of projects; in many cases until now, community
mobilization initiatives have unfortunately resulted in dissatisfaction because funds were not
available for the project itself. The CAP will be of adequate size to respond to large numbers of
proposals. Transparency and two-way information flows in decision-making will be key guiding
elements of CAP procedures.
(iii)  The SCC conducted for preparation of the CAP, obtained communities' perceptions of the poor.
The poor were predominantly described as: female-headed households (single mothers and
abandoned wives of migrant laborers driven by poverty to beg), orphans without adequate
protection and care, families with too many children and those who are terminally ill. The criteria
for distinction between poor, better-off and rich were based primarily on numbers of livestock
owned and amount of land harvested.
(iv)  Traditional approaches for organizing community efforts around identified activities were found to
exist in most areas where the SCC was conducted. Based on the principle of reciprocity, the
traditional nhimbe (reciprocal work) has become the basis for activities other than agricultural
work, and has been the unit from which a variety of cooperatives have grown. Large-scale
community action based on the principle of "share need" (the community who shares the same
facilities and services), is similarly based on the larger concept of nhimbe. Participation in the
nhimbe is voluntary and includes women, men and youth. The kraalhead is usually the person
responsible for motivation and labor organization. CAP sub-projects will draw on these traditional
structures for community action.
(v)   RDCs are increasingly used as a means of channeling and coordinating community development
activities within a district. However, the involvement of RDCs is not without problems. There are
reports of conflicts of interest between RDCs and local communities which suggest that
community development programs channeled through RDCs must include safeguards to ensure
that community interests are recognized. Measures are also necessary to strengthen community
bargaining capacity, especially in poorer communities. CAP sub-project appraisals and approvals
will involve the RDCs and other local sector personnel. At the same time, CAP will strengthen
local community structures to articulate priorities, bargain for and manage resources. (For more
information on local institutional dynamics, see the final Assessment Study, available in the
project file).
(vi)  Data collection conducted by institutions which do not have an established institutional mandate
and capacity to do so, is not sustainable. The Poverty Assessment Study Survey, for example, was
conducted outside the CSO by the SDF on a one-off, priority basis. This has not created lasting
capacity for large-scale surveys in the SDF, and has weakened the CSO as well. The project
proposes to build on the institutional comparative advantages that exist, and to thereby promote
the sustainability of the poverty monitoring program. The project will thus support improved



Page 18
quantitative data collection by the CSO, commissioned studies from researchers at large through
an SDF-administered study fund, dissemination by the SDF and greater cooperation between all
concerned institutions.
Based on Global Experience
(i)   Communities, however poor, are generally willing to contribute a share of the costs of a project in
kind or in cash, if they are convinced of the importance of the asset and that it will be completed.
CAP will require active community participation in prioritization, design and implementation. As
a result, ownership, contribution, and vigilant supervision by the community is expected.
(ii)    Continued monitoring of project impact is necessary to learn from operational experience and
modify procedures accordingly. Project outcome and impact monitoring will be a central
function of the CAP unit. Performance indicators, an internal MIS and an external beneficiary
assessment system will be established to facilitate this objective.
(iii)   With regard to the fund mechanism of CAP, critical success factors noted in other Bank-financed
Social Funds would be ensured: (a) well paid, qualified staff with a director of proven managerial
experience; (b) political, financial, and administrative autonomy; (c) assurance of well defined
technical as well as socio-economic appraisal criteria; and transparent appraisal procedures,
including screening and monitoring of environmental impacts; (d) regular and frequent financial,
managerial and technical audits; (e) political support and commitment to the goals and integrity
of the CAP fund; and, (f) regular beneficiary assessments to get feedback from beneficiaries and
making adjustments to the program.
(iv)   Implementation experience of social funds in other countries has indicated that there can be a
danger of approving many sub-projects without adequate attention to the capacity of the project
to properly supervise the implementation and completion of the approved sub-projects. It is
essential that project approvals be monitored and managed keeping in view the implementation
capacity of the relevant supervisory structures. The utilization of an Annual Workplan and
Budget can be a useful tool in enabling the project management to avoid implementation
bottlenecks. It has been agreed that the CAP PMU will develop an Annual Workplan and
Budget.
(iv)  On establishing a cost-effective and usable poverty monitoring network, the following principles
noted as relevant in other operations are being promoted: (a) a shared understanding of the
characteristics/determinants of poverty; (b) data needs guiding choice of data instruments; (c)
linking data and analysis to policy formulation; (d) comparative advantage of institutions as the
basis for sustainability and lead roles in the network; (e) ensuring an institutional coordination
framework; and (f) resourcing adequately but within sustainable framework.
(v)   The institutional and administrative arrangements of the poverty monitoring component need to be
clearly separated from the sub-project component. While these components usually support the
poverty reduction theme of the whole project, their specific activities, implementation timetable,
and skill requirements are distinctly different.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOZ has prepared an initial project proposal and established a multi sectoral Consultative Group and
more focused Executive Management Committee to guide project design. The latter includes both



Page 19
Government and NGO representatives reflecting the GOZ's goal to work closely with the civil society. A
Japanese Grant was obtained to support project preparation. Preparation activities carried out for the
community sub-projects component include: (i) an extensive process of Systematic Client Consultation to
define modalities and thematic areas of intervention for CAP; (ii) district poverty ranking exercise to
guide the geographic targeting; (iii) an Assessment Study to learn from community development
experiences already on-going in the country; and (iv) study tours to already operating Social Funds
(Malawi and Eritrea) to better understand alternative management options and design features. A project
preparation team has been established and an Operational Manual has been prepared. The CAP also has
strategic importance for implementation of the Government's decentralization policy and efforts at
strengtheninig local-level environmental planning. For the preparation of the poverty monitoring
componerit, the National Economic and Planning Commission approved a year-long program of poverty-
analysis capacity building at the CSO and the SDF. This program began in July 1997. The MPSLSW
has been leading a collaborative effort with different GOZ and NGO institutions to design the scope of
the component and the implementation arrangements. The MPSLSW has also taken steps to integrate the
CAP with other SDF programs (e.g. via placing the CAP Management Unit within the purview of the
overall SO)F Advisory Board), and to link the poverty monitoring component to other sources of support
(e.g. from UNDP) for the overall poverty monitoring program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
The Bank will bring its experience of social funds in more than 30 countries, as well as expertise in
strengthening poverty monitoring systems and community-based natural resources management to assist
in the design and implementation of CAP. The Bank has also benefited from the cross-fertilization of
ideas that has taken place between teams from the Zimbabwean and Bank sides during project
preparation. This exchange and mutual learning is expected to continue during project implementation.
E: Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[N/A ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=N/A; ERR= N/A; [N/A] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other: simple screening procedures to ensure targeting of benefits to poorer and more vulnerable
groups
General project benefits:
i. Expected benefits observable, varied and hard to quantify: Given the multi-sectoral nature of the
interventions conceived under the community sub-projects component and poverty monitoring
components, a range of benefits is expected. Many of these are not quantifiable. The difficulty of
measuring this type of gain is compounded by the fact that they typically manifest themselves in the
longer term rather than in the shorter term.
Reduced poverty of poorer communities is expected to be achieved through:
- economic benefits:
*  increased direct resource flows to districts with worst basic needs indicators
*  improved standard of living in beneficiary areas due to returns from sub-project
investments in social and economic infrastructure and improved natural resource
management
*  increased productivity and sustainability of created communal assets



Page 20
*  indirect increases in incomes in beneficiary areas through multiplier effects
*  increased cost-effectiveness of national household survey program due to increased
coordination and reduced duplication across survey instruments
- social benefits:
*  enhanced community organizational capacity to undertake future community-prioritized
projects
*  improved collaboration between communal leaders, local government, sector officials
and NGOs in carrying out a process of cross-sectoral planning coordinated at the local
level
*  improved availability, quality and use of poverty data in sustainable institutional
framework through:
*  improved collaboration between key GOZ institutions, the academic community in
Zimbabwe and local planners in generating and using poverty data
ii. Use of public funds is justified: Funds under the community sub-projects component will be
invested in building and rehabilitating community (rather than individual) assets, both physical and
social. Private investment in support of these assets will be tapped in the form of community
contributions. The general public goods nature of the project outputs justifies the utilization of public
investment funds for these purposes. Similarly, the outputs expected under the poverty monitoring
component, i.e. increased capacity for analysis and use of poverty data, improves the effectiveness of
public policies and also has a strong public goods dimension.
iiih Poverty impact of sub-projects will be evaluated during Project implementation: The project
has already developed a methodology for ranking districts by basic needs indicators. Furthermore, it
will support the development of intra-district poverty maps for each of the districts in which CAP will
operate. The poverty impact of the whole project will be monitored by, among other variables, the
number of proposals received and approved from the poorest districts and communities within
districts, the amounts transferred, number of employment days created, changes in coverage, quality
and distances of basic services, the changes in time-use and satisfaction of communities as indicated
by beneficiary assessments, etc. Indicators of improved natural resource management and drought
preparedness will also be evaluated. Beneficiary assessments, combining participatory and
household-survey tools, will be used to prepare such analysis.
iv. Cost-effectiveness to guide community-subprojects and poverty monitoring components: Cost-
effectiveness of subprojects within a sector will be ensured by provision to communities of project
menus, costed design options and access to a regional Unit-Cost Data Bank. In order to ensure cost-
effectiveness and sustainability of achievements, the component is building on the technical
comparative advantage of key institutions, for both the community sub-projects-related components
as well as for the poverty monitoring component. The data and analysis needs to be supported by the
project under the poverty monitoring component, will be developed in a demand-driven way through
a multi-sectoral technical advisory committee. Any net addition to ongoing data collection program
costs will be designed to reflect fiscal sustainability. Efforts will also be made to improve data access
such that the collected data can be more fully utilized for analysis.
CAP subprojects: simple screening procedures to be applied to establish the economic justification of
sub-projects are discussed in Annex 4.



Page 21
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Fiscal impact:
i. Communities will be expected to contribute a share of individual sub-project costs
(equivalent to a minimum of 20% of the value of the sub-project cost). As a condition of
sub-project approval, they will also submit a plan for maintenance of the completed asset.
This would show responsibilities and also any financial contributions to be made by
community members or users. As such, it is expected a) that the productive life of the
communal asset will be longer than in the non-participatory planning case, b) that recurrent
cost burden on the public exchequer (central or local) will be lower than in the non-
participatory case.
ii. Sub-project proposals will also be reviewed to ensure that sectoral ministries will provide for
recurrent expenditures generated by the sub-project and for which the sector has
responsibility.
iii. The sub-project menu does not suggest that there will be a significant incremental recurrent
cost burden on GOZ.
Financial accountability:
iv, Mechanisms to ensure financial control and accountability are being designed and
incorporated in the CAP Operational Manual. Thus far it is proposed that: a computerized
accounting system will be put in place before credit effectiveness. Funds accounts will be
maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. The annual financial
statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards of Auditing by
independent auditors acceptable to the GOZ and IDA.
3. Technical:
The projecit is technically sound. The project's technical design is based on the use of simple, appropriate
and environmentally sound technologies, corresponding to the needs and capabilities (for construction, as
well as operation and maintenance) of the population. The design and standards of subprojects will be
based on the norms and standards of the technical ministries involved and consistent with the new EIA
policy. Labor intensive work will be preferred wherever proven as technically and economically efficient
and insofar as it generates employment opportunities. Innovations in technical designs of sub-projects
will be encouraged while keeping in mind the need for technical, financial and implementation viability.
Investment costs for the projects are based on prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate allowance for
inflation, and, whenever applicable, a reasonable level of physical contingencies.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: (i) Community sub-projects: CAP has been established as part of the Social
Development Fund, the government agency charged with coordinating the Poverty Alleviation Action
Plan, which is located within the MPSLSW. A strong coordination with other government agencies, civil
society and NGOs will be ensured at the national and local level through the SDF Advisory Board and the
District Review Committee. Both committees at different stages and with different mandate will review
and approve CAP activities. The sub-projects component will be implemented at the district level via the
Rural District Councils and as such will be fully integrated into the GOZ's decentralization policy. (ii)
Poverty monitoring component: The Department of Labour Research and Statistics of the MPSLSW will
be the primary agency responsible for executing the poverty monitoring component. However, it will be



Page 22
guided by a multi-institutional Technical Advisory Group (TAG). It will also work closely with other
Ministry units and together with them will constitute the poverty monitoring (IPMAS) Hub, which will be
responsible for the overall coordination and management functions of the component. The DLRS will
periodically enter into implementation agreements with other institutions who will be given the
responsibility to carry out certain functions as part of the Annual Workprogram and Budget (e.g. national
household surveys to be carried out by the CSO).
b. Project management: (i) CAP will be staffed with high-quality, experienced professionals, with
proven management skills, ability to work witlh NGOs and community organizations and good
understanding of poverty issues in Zimbabwe. A computerized MIS will guarantee constant monitoring
on CAP performance. This will be reviewed on an annual basis by a joint GOZ-Bank team. Intensive
use of participatory survey will provide information on impact of CAP financed activities on the
beneficiaries. The procurement, disbursement, and administrative guidelines are reflected in the
Operational Manual, which can only be modified in agreement wvith IDA. The project has been designed
in order to maximize efficiency during implementation, in the sense that its operating costs will represent
a small fraction of the costs of the sub-projects which CAP will finance. For the purpose of calculating
the operating ratio, the operating and administrative expenses include the salaries and other employment
costs of all CAP staff, utilities and communication expenses, material and other administrative costs,
internal travel and per diems, and the operation, insurance and maintenance of equipment and vehicles,
but exclude the cost of financial and technical audits, any special study, training for CAP staff, and the
salaries of any government official involved in CAP activities. (ii) The poverty monitoring component
will be implemented through designated staff in the poverty monitoring Hub of the MPSLSW, under the
oversight of a multi-sectoral committee whose scope and functions needs to be finalized. A Poverty
Monitoring Manager, with proven managerial skills and technical skills in poverty analysis, will be hired
under the project to be responsible for day-to-day management of the program. The poverty monitoring
Hub will be staffed by professionals, who will receive appropriate training in the course of project
preparation and implementation.
5. Social.
The social challenge of the CAP relates to understanding and effectively mobilizing poorer communities
and disadvantaged minorities and women within these communities around targeted investments in social
and economic infrastructure, improved natural resource management and other small-scale activities
which the communities themselves identify as important to improving their welfare. To this end, the
CAP will foster partnerships with ongoing government and NGO-led programs and activities that will
enhance poorer groups' and communities' bargaining capacity and organization to make productive use
of CAP resources and other sources of investment opportunities. Extensive training of communities and
their organizations will be supported under the CAP to promote capacity building and self-sufficiency at
the local level to lay the groundwork for transferring authority for implementation of development and
natural resource management activities to local organizations and communities. The poverty monitoring
component will support these different dimensions through improving the availability of regular
information and analysis of household and community welfare. Data collection supported under this
component will not only be quantitative, but also involve participatory assessments of poverty
dimensions.



Page 23
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category     []A   [X] B  []C
The poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population are often the most dependent on renewable
natural resources for income generation and risk aversion. But while indirectly benefiting from the
externalities of improved natural resource management, poor communities may not perceive
environmental degradation to be more important than for example, construction of infrastructure such as
school buildings, health posts, boreholes, and other projects eligible for support under the CAP. Because
poor communities often lack the impetus and initial capital to get started, environmental problems often
have to be pro-actively targeted at the community level. CAP is expected to play an active role in
promoting and supporting sub-projects aimed at improving poor communities' management of the natural
resources wthich they control and depend on for their livelihood.
To this end, environmental screening, review and assessment of potential environmental impacts of
investments will be an integral part of the CAP sub-projects throughout design, implementation,
supervision and monitoring. In addition, as part of the social mobilization activities supported by the
project, CAP will facilitate environmental institutional capacity building to ensure awareness,
enforcement and monitoring of environmental standards and guidelines, as well as promote sub-projects
aimed at imiproving communities' management of their natural resources.
While the extent and diversity of potential CAP investments present a challenge for mainstreaming
environmental assessment review procedures in the sub-project cycle, the small-scale and simplicity of
design of the majority of the projects to be financed allow the proposal of an effective environmental
screening, evaluating, and supervising mechanism of possible environmental impacts. CAP will
undertake four related activities (see Annex 11 Ifor a full description): (i) CAP will assess the
environmental impact of projected sub-projects through an environmental impact study of the program
before project effectiveness; (ii) based on the findings and recommendations from this study, CAP will
develop environmental assessment review procedures as part of the sub-project cycle before project
effectiveness and mainstream them during project implementation; (iii) CAP will raise community
awareness about environmental impacts of the program-funded activities and promote ways to mitigate
and avoid negative effects; and (iv) CAP will support improved natural resource management through its
support for sub-projects aimed at improving natural resource management by poor communities.
The poverty monitoring component is expected to support strengtlhened data collection and analysis of all
dimensions of welfare, including environmental resource availability and use by different groups of the
population.
7. Participatory approach:
In addition to advancing the Bank's work in the areas of community participation and
collaboration with NGOs and civil society organizations in Zimbabwe, CAP decision-making
processes are expected to contribute towards strengthening the capacity of existing structures
within local government and the traditional village system to serve as effective mechanisms for
active participation by marginalized groups (women, landless, youth) in determining options and
priorities for alleviating poverty and the sustainable management of their natural resource base.
The poverl:y monitoring component is expected to generate increased dialogue between central
and local planners, public authorities and civil society, and data collectors and users, on the range



Page 24
of issues regarding poverty indicators, status, trends and causality. As such, it is expected to
promote consensus-building on poverty-reduction interventions in Zimbabwe.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability.
Sustainability of CAP sub-projects will be ensured through: (i) high degree of community participation in
identification, appraisal and implementation; (ii) ownership by beneficiaries as evidenced through cash or
in-kind contribution; (iii) a menu of technical design prototypes appropriate to local conditions which will
be made available to local communities, particularly for roads and rural water supply sub-projects; (iv)
appraisal criteria which will require presentation of operation and maintenance plan; (v) assurance that
CAP financed projects are part of the RDC plans; (vi) participation of government agencies and RDCs in
project appraisal, approval and supervision; (vii) agreement with government agencies and RDCs to
assure coverage of recurrent costs for those community projects that generate such costs; (viii) training
provided to local communities on how to operate and maintain the facilities; and (ix) involvement of
NGOs and other players.
Sustainability of poverty monitoring coordination will be ensured through: (i) integration of key
implementation units into the organizational structure of their parent institutions, i.e, the Poverty Unit in
the CSO and the Poverty Monitoring Unit in the SDF structure; (ii) building on the comparative
advantages of different institutions; (iii) oversight of the monitoring program through a body with
government and non-government institutional representatives from several sectors in order to ensure that
there is broad sectoral ownership of the information generated; and, (iv) institutional mechanisms to
report findings to key policy making levels at central and local levels.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                          Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to project development
objectives:
1. CAP resources will not be directed at higher levels to   Moderate  1.1 Objective system of ranking districts on
the poorest districts, or to poorer communities within each         the basis of degree of poverty has been
district, but to those who have a stronger political                developed;
representation.                                                     1.2 A agreement between the GOZ and
IDA on the geographical coverage
(including annual expansion strategy) and
resource allocation principles will be sought
on an annual basis;
1.3 An intra-district poverty map will be
prepared by the PAAP Officer for each
participating district, to be used as a
monitoring instrument;
1.4 The Operational Manual will ensure
transparent appraisal criteria.
2. Community projects will not be sustainable or  Moderate          2.1 Guarantee by local sector officials for
technically sound because of lack of resources for                  provision of recurrent expenditures
operating costs                                                     mandated to GOZ will be part of appraisal
criteria



Page 25
Risk                          Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
2.2 Communities will be asked to prepare a
maintenance plan as part of the sub-project
proposal package to be appraised.
2.3 The SDF Advisory Board can be
mobilized to resolve uncertainties or
conflict regarding recurrent cost provision.
Access to national household data will not improve  Moderate         3.1 Technical assistance will be provided to
the CSO to review practices in CSOs in
other countries and to build its technical and
managerial capacity to provide improved
data access
Project components to outputs:
I. The macroeconomic situation might deteriorate to an    Moderate   1. I The GOZ is engaging in dialogue with
extent that becomes disruptive to cohesive social                    the IMF on a stand-by loan, and the World
organization. with implications for the underlying premise           Bank on balance-of-payments support, both
of the CAP.                                                          sources of funds contingent on
implementation of fiscal and monetary
stabilization measures.
1.2 The GOZ is exploring various measures
to mitigate the short-term impact on the
poor of increases in prices of essential
commodities.
1.3 It has also established a dialogue with
civil society, labour groups and employers
through the National Economic
Consultative Forum, on various aspects of
economic and social policy.
2. Failure by some RDCs to meet commitments to the  Moderate         2.1 A legal agreement between
program, affecting the ability of the CAP to operate in              participating RDCs and the SDF is being
certain districts.                                                   drawn up. The agreement will record the
responsibilities of both the RDC and the
CAP with respect to the implementation of
the CAP, and also lay out conditions for
reviewing the effectiveness of the
cooperation.
3. Cooperation between collaborating institutions in the   Moderate  3.1 A coordinating committee to promote
poverty monitoring component may break down                          regular interaction between institutions is to
be established.
3.2 The division of responsibilities across
institutions will be clearly defined in the
Operational Document, in order to facilitate
implementation and supervision.
Overall Risk Rating                                Moderate



Page 26
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
-- the CAP Operational Manual has been duly approved by the Borrower and IDA and adopted
by the Borrower;
-- the CAP Management Unit and SDF Advisory Board have been duly established and the
Project Manager selected;
-- the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and accounting system, and
designed a management information system.
2. Other:
Financial Covenants:
The Borrower shall:
-- have the records, accounts and financial statements of project activities, and the records and
accounts of the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to GOZ and IDA, and the audit statement made available to IDA within six
months of the end of the year;
-- maintain records and separate accounts for expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure;
-- retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures based on statements
of expenditure;
-- enable IDA representatives to examine such records;
-- ensure that the annual audit reports contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during each fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Conditions for Disbursement of Poverty Monitoring Component:
No withdrawals shall be made with respect to expenditures under this component unless:
-- the IPMAS Operational Document Manual has been duly approved by the Borrower and IDA
and adopted by the Borrower;
-- the poverty monitoring Technical Advisory Group and the Poverty Monitoring Section of the
Department of Labour Research and Statistics of the MPSLSW has been duly established; and
-- the Poverty Monitoring Manager duly appointed.



Page 27
Other (assurances regarding implementation arrangements):
: the CAP Management Unit shall consist of a Project Manager having qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA, who shall be assisted by a Technical Support Services Unit, a
Finance and Administration Unit, and a Monitoring Unit;
The Borrower shall:
: ensure that the positions of Project Manager and other higher level staff involved in the
implementation of the Project, shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate officials, having
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA;
: carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the CAP Operational Manual and
IPMAS Operational Document, and, except as IDA shall otherwise agree, shall not amend these
documents if such amendments may, in the opinion of IDA, materially or adversely affect the
implementation of the Project;
: maintain policies and procedures to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with performance indicators agreed during negotiations and reflected in a
supplemental letter to the Development Credit Agreement;
: not later than November 30 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with IDA, a joint annual
review of the Project or, in the case of the review to be undertaken not later than November 30,
2000, a midterm review;
: following each review, undertake to act promptly and diligently to remedy any shortcoming
noted in the implementation of the Project;
: submit to IDA for review, annual and quarterly progress reports on the status of the Project, to
be submitted not later than two months after the end of each fiscal year and one month after the
end of each quarter, respectively;
: maintain an appropriate management information system acceptable to IDA;
With respect to community subprojects, the Borrower shall ensure, among other things:
: that the amounts of the credit allocated to community sub-projects be used exclusively to
provide grants to finance development sub-projects in accordance with criteria and terms and
conditions set forth in the CAP Operational Manual;
the amount of each grant shall not exceed 80% of the total cost of the sub-project;
goods, services and works required for the purposes of financing sub-projects shall be procured
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA and set forth in the CAP Operational Manual;
: that the beneficiary carry out the sub-project with due diligence and efficiency in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors, and that adequate records are maintained.



Page 28
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ I The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[X] A draft Operational Manual for the community sub-projects component has been appraised and
found to be satisfactory.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Operational Document for the poverty monitoring component
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[ X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader:   Laura Frigenti
Sector Manager:     Ruth Kagia
Country Director:   Barbara Kafka



Page 29
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Zimbabwe: Community Action Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance             Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                        (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
To improve the standard of   Observable and sustained  Surveys, sector studies,
living of poorer rural     improvements in key        joint Bank/GOZ/civic
communities, especially of   indicators of poverty and  institution assessments
the most vulnerable and    human development.
disadvantaged groups.
Project Development                                                              (Objective to Goal)
Objectives:
I. To assist in reducing the   1.1 Strengthened capacity   I. MIS, sub-project   1.1 General economic
vulnerability of poorer rural  of beneficiary local    completion evaluations,    and political stability
communities through        communities to: (a) identify  annual beneficiary     in the country
fostering opportunities for    and prioritize needs; (b)  assessments, annual
such communities to        plan and implement          project implementation    1.2 Sustained political
strengthen their capacity to   solutions; (c) manage and    review, supervision  and budgetary
mobilize, implement self-    maintain investments; and,   missions, mid-term report  commitment to the
help projects, collaborate    (d) apply the experience and  and final implementation    provision of social
with relevant local        lessons learnt to future    completion report.        services
institutions and to benefit    needs.
from the returns of the
communal assets they create  1.2 Strengthened
and maintain.              participation in community
decisions of poorer and
more vulnerable groups.
1.3 Positive beneficiary
assessments of experiences
with participatory and
collaborative planning, and
implementation of projects
through partnerships with
local officials and NGOs.
1.4 Observable changes in
service quality, coverage,
sustainability and use by
beneficiaries.
2. To assist in improving  2.1 Increased frequency and  2. Annual Workprogram    2.1 Political
the design of poverty      quality of data collection on  and Budget of IPMAS,   commitment at central
reduction policies and     key poverty indicators.     quarterly reports         and local levels to
programs through                                      prepared by DLRS for       using analysis of



Page 30
Narrative Summary           Key Performance            Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
promoting improvements in  2.2 Easier access to      the TAG and to IDA,       poverty status/causes
the system to monitor the    household data for studies    commissioned studies  in design of policies
impact of these policies on   on poverty.            and technical reports,    and program
the poor.                                            annual project            interventions
2.3 Increased analysis and   implementation review,
use of such data by central   supervision missions,
and local planners.       mid-term report, final
implementation
2.4 Institutions avoiding  completion report.
duplication of functions and
fulfilling the data collection,
analysis or reporting
functions for which they
have a mandate.
2.5 Continuing cooperation
between key institutional
stakeholders and greater
client responsiveness.
Outputs:
1. Improved community     1.1 Strongercommunity      1. MIS, Annual            1.1 Recurrent
cohesiveness, quality of life  organizations in terms of    Workprogram and Budget, expenditures
and productivity facilitated   knowledge, rights and  sub-project completion   generated by some
through sub-project       activity implementation    evaluations, annual       types of sub-projects
activities.               experience.                beneficiary assessments,   will be ensured.
annual project
1.2 Improved services or    implementation review,
natural resource          supervision missions, mid-
management and improved   term report and final
utilization of services   implementation
related to sub-project    completion report.
investments.
1.3 Increased productivity/
sustainability of CAP
financed assets/services
relative to same type of
assets/services generated
through other projects.
1.4 Number of sub-projects
successfully completed.
1.5 Number and quality of
project requests received
from poorest communities.



Page 31
Narrative Summary          Key Performance            Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
1.6 Preparation of
community-based
maintenance plans.
1.7 Greater responsiveness
by RDCs and other local
govt. structures to needs and
priorities of poor
communities.
1.8 Improved community
perceptions regarding
transparency of RDC
decision-making about
development priorities.
1.9 Number and amounts of
project requests received by
project type and region.
1.10 Higher fund ceilings
for districts with higher
basic needs.
2. Institutional capacity  2.1 Completion of poverty   2. Annual Workprogram    2.1 Technical capacity
created to monitor poverty   analysis capacity-building    and Budget of IPMAS,  of CSO to institute
data and the impact of    program (currently         quarterly reports prepared   necessary
policies the poor.        ongoing).                  by DLRS for the oversight  modifications to data
committee (TAG) and to   sets and data release
2.2 Regular (annual or bi-  IDA, commissioned      guidelines.
annual) poverty reports of   studies and technical
international quality     reports, annual project
produced as normal CSO    implementation review,
institutional output.     supervision missions, mid-
term report, final
2.3 Capacity created in   implementation
IPMAS Hub to generate     completion report.
policy briefs, commission
studies and disseminate
poverty newsletters.
2.4 Number and quality of
studies commissioned by
TAG.



Page 32
Narrative Summary           Key Performance            Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
2.5 Number and quality of
policy briefs prepared by
IPMAS Hub for central and
local planners.
2.6 Technical review of
CSO's household survey
program to reflect identified
data needs.
2.7 Number of staff trained
in poverty measurement
methodologies.
2.8 Household data release
guidelines prepared and
implemented by CSO.
2.9 Research guidelines
developed for study fund to
be administered by DLRS.
2.10 Continued joint update
by GOZ and other
3. CAP delivery institutions  stakeholders of a poverty    3. MIS, Annual
strengthened to undertake    alleviation action plan.  Workprogram and Budget,
the timely delivery of                               sub-project completion
project funds.            3.1 Average time elapsed    evaluations, annual
for individual sub-projects   beneficiary assessments,
between the each stage of    annual project
project cycle, i.e. outreach,  implementation review,
project appraisal, project    supervision missions, mid-
approval, disbursements.    term report and final
implementation
3.2 Number of sub-project   completion report.
requests received,
appraised, approved,
contracted, supervised,
completed.
3.3 Number of project
requests received, approved,
rejected and completed by
basic needs rank of district.



Page 33
Narrative Summary          Key Performance            Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
3.4 Number of project
requests received, approved
and completed by basic
needs rank of communities
within a district.
3.5 Team building and
problem-solving skills of
CAP staff.
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (total budgetfor                           (Components to
components: (see Annex 2    each component)                                   Outputs)
for project description)
1. Community sub-projects  US$ 60.5 million          1-3. Disbursement        1. Effective
records, reports of      cooperation between
Borrower and Bank.       SDF and different
local agencies,
especially the RDC, in
implementing CAP
activities will be
maintained.
2. Poverty monitoring     US$ 3.0 million                                     2. Stakeholder
institutions will
continue to collaborate
with each other.
3. Institutional capacity  US$ 9.5 million                                    3. See 1.
support



Page 34
Annex 2
COMMUNITY ACTION PROJECT
Project Description
Project Background
In early 1996 the Government of Zimbabwe commissioned a team to prepare a Project Concept
Document for a Community Development Programme which was to be a central element of its Poverty
Alleviation Action Plan (PAAP). The concept document identified the need for a funding mechanism
which would deliver grants to communities to enable them to implement small projects which they could
identify as priorities. On the basis of the ideas articulated in this document, the Social Development Fund
of the Ministry of Public Services, Labour and Social Welfare (MPSLSW) started the preparation of the
Community Action Project, with the support of the Bank. From the beginning, the SDF pursued a
broadly consultative approach to project design, establishing a multi-sectoral Steering Committee,
including several NGOs, to advise on key issues. At a later stage, a streamlined Executive Management
Committee, drawn from the Steering Committee, was established to facilitate more intensive guidance to
the preparation process.
Due to the widespread demand for trend data on poverty and human development indicators expressed by
the SDF, the Poverty Forum, National Economic and Planning Commission and so on, discussions
developed over time on Bank support to a possible second component to strengthen poverty monitoring
and analysis. The SDF had already conducted a Poverty Assessment Study Survey (PASS) in 1995 but
had not developed a sustainable and longer-term monitoring program. The preparation of the poverty
monitoring component was thus begun to develop an institutionally sustainable data collection, analysis
and dissemination system which draws on recognized institutional mandates. As such, the component is
being prepared by staff of the MPSLSW, which has a mandate for poverty monitoring and policy advice
on social protection.
Preparation of the whole project has been supported by a Japanese PHRD Grant.
Preparation of the community sub-projects component
A Project Preparation Team (PPT) was constituted and appointed to ensure that all preparation activities
were carefully structured and all key issues addressed adequately and openly discussed with the CAP
Management and Steering Committees and other key government and non-government stakeholders.
This core team, consisting of a Project Preparation Manager and two other supporting officers, has been
in charge of the strategic planning, synthesizing the findings from all preparatory work and developing
specific recommendations on how the CAP is being structured so that it responds to community
initiatives quickly and cost-effectively. The Project Preparation Manager has been directly supervised by
the Director of the SDF.
Five types of preparatory activities have been undertaken with financing from the PHRD grant:
1. Assessment studies
2. Systematic client consultation (SCC)
3. Geographic targeting
4. Organizational design
5. Study Tours



Page 35
Three local teams of consultants were selected from the NGO and academic communities to carry out the
assessment studies, SCC and targeting exercise under the supervision of the Project Preparation Manager.
In addition, a short-term senior institutional consultant was recruited to advise the Project Preparation
Manager on CAP preparation, facilitate and organize workshops involving all actors participating during
the CAP preparation (PPT, the Management and Steering Committee, key government agencies,
members of NGOs, donor and academic communities), and assist the government in the final design of
the CAP structure, MIS and the Project Operational Manual.
The objecti ves of each preparatory activity are summarized below. Terms of reference for these activities
were jointly developed by the Bank and the government.
Assessnment studies: The purpose of the assessment studies was to evaluate both international and
Zimbabwean experience in community development projects and to draw lessons from experience to
inform the design of the CAP. The studies included evaluations of reports produced by NGOs, public
institutions, donors and researchers working on community development programs, as well as general
surveys and evaluations of institutional, administrative, financial management and disbursement issues
resulting from similar national or international programs. The assessment studies also undertook
discussions with NGOs and other who have worked in community development programs in Zimbabwe
and investigated several modalities for local linkages between the CAP and RDCs.
The assessment studies generated a report synthesizing the key lessons both on how the CAP could be
structured, as well as on how small-scale activities oriented towards the poorer communities and
households can have maximum long-term impact on their livelihoods in terms of community
participation, project relevance and project sustainability. Based on the studies' review of experiences in
Zimbabwe, the consultant team also carried out more intensive field assessments of good examples of
best practices and less successful experiences in community development in the country.
Systematic client consultation: A local team of consultants conducted a SCC in five selected sites to
obtain beneficiaries' (including communities, civic organizations, local NGOs, etc.) perspectives and shed
light on the capacities existing within communities, traditional structures as well as local government
administrative structures to carry out CAP-funded activities. The five SCC sites were selected based
upon the district ranking generated during the targeting exercise, and other criteria, including the level of
capacity wilthin communities, local government, NGO presence, poverty levels and other specific criteria.
The SCC provided valuable information regarding how poor communities describe poverty, their existing
resource base in terms of community assets, needs and constraints, the process through which they
prioritize their needs, the type and size of projects they would identify as priorities, community leadership
structure and capacity, and the typical characteristics of the poorest groups within their midst. The SCC
also identified other groups such as NGOs, the private sector, key government agencies, etc., already
working in the targeted communities, and the weaknesses and strengths of their current institutional
linkages/arrangements with local government and administrative structures.
Geographic targeting: In order to ensure that project resources are focused on poorer districts and poorer
communities within districts, a geographical targeting methodology was deemed necessary for the CAP.
This exercise was conducted by a Zimbabwean consultant and associates selected by the GOZ from the
local academic community. The geographic targeting task has involved three aspects: a district ranking,
district coverage options and resource allocation options.
A preliminary ranking of districts has been completed using the PASS 1995 household data. The ranking
is based on a composite indicator using a range of household welfare indicators and combining them in a



Page 36
transparent and simple way. This ranking was used to select districts for conducting the SCC, and will
also be a guide for the preliminary operation of the CAP. Using the ranking of basic needs of the
districts, different options for geographical coverage by the CAP was also developed to show the
percentage of the poor, and of the population which would be covered with different coverage options.
The main coverage options discussed were: coverage of most disadvantaged districts nationally, versus
coverage of the most disadvantaged districts within each Province. At the next stage, the information on
prioritized districts was used to develop options on how resources would be shared between districts.
Selection of too many districts may mean that resources are too thinly spread for effective poverty
reduction impact, while selection of too few districts may prevent reaching a significant proportion of the
poor nationally. Options for demand driven resource allocation, equal allocation across districts, resource
allocation based on district populations and, finally, resource allocation based on district population and
basic needs, were identified and implications discussed. The option of resource allocation varying across
districts based on a combination of population and basic needs has been decided. UNICEF co-financed
this study and provided technical input jointly with Bank staff.
At a next stage, a notional poverty map will be developed to identify poorest communities within a
district. This will combine available household welfare data and information from key informants, and
will be developed by Field Officers in collaboration with RDC, local sectoral and NGO officials.
Organizational Design: In order to prepare the Operational Manual for the CAP, decisions needed to be
made about how the CAP was to be organized, how implementation will take place, as well as procedures
which would be in place to ensure maximum efficiency and effectiveness. On the basis of the findings
from the preparation studies, a draft Operational Manual has been produced by the PPT, with the
assistance of the senior institutional consultant, and in consultation with the Executive Management and
Steering committees. The document outlines CAP objectives, definitions, functions and roles of key
government and non-governmental agencies involved at different levels, sub-project cycle, environmental
appraisal and monitoring procedures, horizontal and vertical institutional linkages between CAP and
other government, traditional and non-government structures, project selection criteria, phases of
implementation, monitoring, etc.
Study tours: In order to facilitate incorporation of lessons learned in the preparation and implementation
of social funds in other parts of Africa, the PPT and members of the Executive Management Committee
were encouraged to utilize study tours. The teams undertook two study tours in this regard, to visit the
Malawi and Eritrea social funds which are both under implementation.
Preparation of the poverty monitoring component
This component is being prepared by a GOZ team consisting of staff from the SDF and DLRS of the
Ministry of Public Services, Labour and Social Welfare, through a collaborative process with other
relevant GOZ, donor and NGO institutions. This team is being supported by a poverty analysis and
monitoring systems specialist. This component of the project will provide technical and financial support
towards the operationalization of the GOZ's Integrated Poverty Monitoring and Analysis System
(IPMAS), a coordinating framework for information flows on poverty.
The IPMAS Hub of the MPSLSW will be led by the Department of Labour Research and Statistics -
Poverty Monitoring Section, and also contain the Policy Analysis Unit of the SDF and staff from the
Department of Social Welfare of the Ministry. The DLRS-PMS, and the Hub more broadly, will be the
main implementing agency for this component. The IPMAS Hub will be guided by an inter-sectoral
Technical Advisory Group (TAG) to be established. As needed, the Hub will enter into implementation



Page 37
agreements with other institutions to facilitate carrying out of activities in the annual workprograms
where other institutions may have a comparative advantage.
The GOZ team decided at the initial stages that the scope for the poverty monitoring system needs to be
defined gradually. This decision was made in recognition of the lack of capacity in poverty analysis in
these two institutions, as well as more broadly, and the complexity of designing a system in which each
institution would play a distinct role which would require overall coordination. As such, the poverty
monitoring system was to begin with a manageablefocus, expand its scope of activities in phases and
respond to client needs in aflexible manner.
Preparatory activities, financed through the PHRD and other grant resources, include the following:
(i) Capacity-building in poverty analysis
(ii) Poverty data needs assessment
(iii) Capacity and needs assessment of the IPMAS Hub
(iv) Review of CSO's household survey program design and data release guidelines
(v) Preparation of an IPMAS Operational Document
Capacity-building in poverty analysis: A year-long analytical and capacity-building program in poverty
measurement and policy analysis started in July 1997 at the CSO and SDF. The poverty analysis
specialist is providing technical assistance to the joint CSO/SDF team in analyzing the ICES and PASS
data sets to produce a poverty profile, analysis of changes in poverty in the 1990s and specific policy
studies. The program involved hands-on analysis and interactive short-courses. At every stage of the
program, findings and issues will be discussed broadly with the Poverty Forum and other stakeholders.
The objectives are to develop robust analytical skills in the team, institutional cooperation, and
preliminary consensus on indicators and trends in poverty. The TOR for this activity were jointly
developed by GOZ and Bank staff.
Poverty data needs assessment: Terms of reference have been drawn up whereby key actual and
potential users and producers of poverty information will be consulted to determine the priority data
needs to be addressed through a poverty monitoring system. The assessment will be carried out with
local expertise and will allow better definition of the indicators and areas of information to be addressed
by the workprogram for the poverty monitoring and analysis system.
On the remaining elements of component preparation, preliminary groundwork has been laid: an internal
capacity and needs assessment of the IPMAS Hub is being carried out, with technical assistance. This
assessment is expected to generate a detailed organogram of the Hub, division of responsibilities across
the various units of the Hub, job descriptions, training and technical assistance schedule, equipment
needs, etc. Regarding the national household survey program, discussions are ongoing on options
regarding the content and coverage of a national household survey to be fielded by the CSO that could be
requested by the IPMAS to meet poverty monitoring needs. While the precise dimensions are still under
discussion, it is expected that the detailed Income, Consumption and Expenditure Surveys (ICES)
planned for every 5 years, will be complemented by an annual survey which will have a more rapid
turnaround and will address core welfare indicators. Certain modifications to the ICES may also be
proposed to improve their utility for poverty analysis. The CSO survey program will be complemented
by a Sentinel Surveillance Survey program which will focus on community level information. The CSO
will engage in a dialogue with the IPMAS Hub to work out the implementation parameters.
Operational Document. The IPMAS Hub will prepare an IPMAS Operational Document over the next
months. The TAG will clear this document before it is submitted to IDA for approval. This document



Page 38
will include the main objectives and principles of the IPMAS, the implementation arrangements, terms of
reference and job descriptions, workprogram and outputs, resource requirements and financing plan
which will be subsequently used to guide IPMAS operations. As part of this document, the Hub will
prepare a 4-5 year poverty monitoring workprogram and budget. A draft implementation agreement and
detailed workprogram and budget of year I of the program will be attached as annexes to the Operational
Document.
Project Component 1: Community sub-projects - Total cost of component US $ 60.5 million (IDA
US $ 50 million; Beneficiary Communities US $ 10.5 million).
The vast majority of sub-projects to be financed under this component will be the rehabilitation of
essential community-based social and economic infrastructure, but it will also include natural resources
management sub-projects as well as training, capacity building and social mobilization. Labor intensive
works will be preferred whenever proven as technically and economically efficient and insofar as they
generate employment opportunities for the poor.
Information, Education and Communication Activities: CAP will undertake an intensive campaign to
educate and inform people about its existence and role. This will include information about CAP goals
and objectives, geographical coverage, targets groups, eligibility criteria and who to contact for more
information. Project promotion will be done at three levels: national, district, and community level.
National Level: CAP PMU will place vernacular advertisements on appropriate radio and television
channels as well as print media. Targets of this activities will be government agencies, NGOs, civil
society institutions, and other organizations involved in poverty reduction and grassroots development
activities.
District Level: PAAP Officers, assisted by the PMU, will organize workshops at the district level to
promote CAP objectives and lay out procedures for participation in CAP activities. Participants to these
workshops will include RDCs, VCWs, NGOs, and representatives of government ministries at district
level. CAP promotional documents will be distributed, and training in CAP procedures will be provided.
Community Level: Local level promotion will be done through VCWs, local leaders, schools, CBOs,
NGOs, and traditional leaders. PAAP Officers will visit communities who have expressed interest in
CAP financing, and will support the communities during project formulation.
Eligibility Criteria: To be eligible for CAP funding, project proposals must satisfy the following
criteria:
Target Groups: (i) all proposals must be initiated by self-identified, legitimate local communities or
community groups in participating districts; (ii) community must be rural based, with priority given to
communal and resettlement areas; (iii) proposals must demonstrate how disadvantaged and vulnerable
groups will benefit; and, (iv) participation and access to benefits cannot be restricted by consideration of
ethnicity, political affiliation and religion.
Nature of Project: (i) the proposed activity must have a clear link to poverty reduction and follow in one
of the following sectors: (a) social infrastructure; (b) economic infrastructure; (c) improved natural
resources management; (d) communal activities; and, (e) social mobilization; (ii) all proposed activities
must be considered in light of any positive or negative effects on environment; (iii) proposals whose
primary purpose is private income-generation will not be considered for funding under CAP; and, (iv)
proposed activities and technical designs must be in line with GOZ regulations, policies and standards.



Page 39
Community Participation: (i) proposals must demonstrate broad community participation and support at
all stages; (ii) number of beneficiaries must be specified; (iii) a project committee must be established;
(iv) communities should contribute at least 20% of the project value in cash, kind, labor or a combination
of the three; in particular cases CAP may decide to reduce the share of community contribution not to
marginalize particularly poor communities; (v) communities are encouraged to form partnership with
local NGOs, CBOs or other community-based institutions; and, (vi) communities will have primary
responsibility for managing project's fuinds.
Poverty Map for each district: One of the first tasks of the PAAP Officer in the RDC will be to
organize a workshop of RDC, RDDC, and other local "experts" to prepare a notional poverty map of the
district. These local experts and key informants will identify and agree on characteristics of poorer,
average and better-off communities in the district, and then identify specific localities in the district which
fall in each of these groups. The poverty map will be used as a reference in DRC and RDC discussions
leading to project recommendations and approval decisions. It will also be used as part of the project
MIS.
The Sub-Project Cycle: The CAP project cycle has the following steps: (i) needs assessment and
project identification; (ii) project design; (iii) desk review; (iv) field review; (v) funding decision; (vi)
project launch; (vii) implementation; (viii) completion; and, (ix) impact assessment.
The first step in the project preparation process is an Assessment of Needs by the community together
with means to address the identified needs. Participatory planning skills may not exist in the community
at this stage, and it might be necessary to seek assistance from other partners, such as NGOs or
government agencies. The partner may provide training to the community or directly help in the
identification process.
The second step is project Design, which includes formulation, establishment of a Community Project
Committee and submission of the project proposal to CAP for financing. During the formulation phase
discussion should be held with the community on alternative technologies for the project to be
implemented, and their implication in terms of operation, maintenance, and sustainability. Assistance
may be sought from the community's partners on design and technology options, and their potential
impact on the environment before deciding on the best option. An EIA will be carried out if determined
by the PMIJ's Technical Support Services Unit.
A Community Project Committee (CPC) will be established to coordinate the activities related to project
implementation. Once the proposal has been finalized, the community will submit it to CAP for possible
funding. A project application form will be filled both in English and the vernacular language, with
assistance from the Field Officer. The community will be encouraged to consult with and/or inform the
local government structures, but there will not be a requirement to obtain local government approval at
this stage.
Once the proposal has been submitted, it will go through several stages of review. A Desk Review will
be carried out by the PAAP Officer to check if the proposal complies with CAP eligibility criteria.
Communications will be sent to the communities about the outcome of the review, with relevant
justifications. If the desk review has been positive, a Field Review will be made in order to verify the
information contained in the application form and the project proposal. The PAAP Officer will make the
visit, accompanied by district staff from the relevant line ministry and partner organization. At the end of
the field visit a report will be drafted, including the recommendations of the field review team.



Page 40
The PAAP Officer will forward all applications received to the District Review Committee with the
relevant recommendations. The DRC will examine the proposals received and will decide which ones
shall be forwarded to the RDC (below US S 50,000) and the national Grants Allocation Committee
(above this threshold) for final approval. The DRC review will focus on the following aspects: (i)
compliance with CAP eligibility criteria; (ii) consistency with other on-going projects and programs
within the district; (iii) consistency with the district development plan; (iv) unavailability of alternative
source for financing; (v) quality of the technical design and adequate cost; and (vi) presence of measures
to mitigate the negative impact on the environment. The proposal will also be reviewed to ensure that
sectoral ministries will provide for recurrent expenditures generated by the sub-project and for which the
sector has responsibility, and that the community role in maintenance or recurrent cost-sharing is feasible.
Once the decision is made, a letter will be sent by the PAAP Officer to the community informing them of
the decision. In case of approval, the letter will request the community to set a date for the Project
Launch and Training which will mark the actual start of project implementation. During the launch,
training will be provided to the community on procurement, bookkeeping and disbursement, and the
community and partners will sign the project agreement which spells out the role of each of the partners
during project implementation.
The project grant will be released to the community in installments, whose number will be determined by
the size and type of sub-project. The community will be requested to open a separate bank account into
which the project's funds will be deposited. Procurement of goods and services will be done directly by
the communities, or by communities with assistance from the PAAP Officer and the RDC.
Project Supervision will be the responsibility of the community, partners and PAAP Officers. The
community will be charged with day to day supervision of project activities, including supervising the
contractors if any have been hired. The CPC will also make sure that the community members provide
their contribution, as agreed. Government line ministries as well as RDC staff will provide routine
monitoring to ensure that the infrastructure meet government and local authorities standards. The PAAP
Officer will visit the project on a regular basis to ensure that the project is progressing on the desired
course. Monthly reports on project progress will be submitted by the PAAP Officer, and progress data
will be entered into the CAP MIS.
The filling in of the project completion form will mark Project Completion. This will be done by the
community, its partners and the PAAP Officer.
Evaluation of the project will take place upon completion and will focus on: (i) extent to which the
project has managed to achieve its intended objectives; (ii) effectiveness of technical support provided by
CAP and other service providers; and, (iii) effectiveness of project partners. The results of the project
evaluation will be submitted to the CAP PMU and utilized as source of information to improve planning
and implementation of future projects.
The community, partners, the RDC and the PMU will conduct a Beneficiary Assessment in a selected
sample of the sub-projects which have been completed and in operation for at least a year.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The CAP Management Information System (MIS) will track the physical
and financial progress of sub-projects activities and the financial commitments and expenditures of the
Fund and provide the information for quarterly and annual reports. The MIS will also store information
to respond to ad-hoc queries, and to carry out periodic assessments of the impact of CAP activities on
beneficiaries. The MIS will be centralized with networked microcomputers for each of the PMU
functions. General progress of the project will be measured against a list of key indicators or tentative



Page 41
targets, which are included in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1), and the Project Operational
Manual. The M/E of some of those indicators will be conducted through specific surveys and beneficiary
assessments. In addition, each year the MU will prepare an Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB),
to be discussed with IDA at the Annual Project Implementation Review. No later than thirty months after
the date of effectiveness, a Mid-Term Review will be carried out by independent specialists to: (i)
determine if satisfactory progress is being made towards meeting the project objectives; (ii) evaluate the
impact on the beneficiaries; (iii) assess the technical quality of construction; (iv) assess whether
arrangements for recurrent costs and the maintenance of assets built with the Fund support are being
honored; and, (v) determine whether there is a need to modify any practices. The mid-term evaluators
will review a representative sample of sub-projects and interview community committee members and
beneficiaries. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared jointly by CAP and IDA within
six months of the end of the project.
Reporting: Quarterly Progress and Financial Reports will be the main tool for monitoring progress of
CAP activities. The essential components of the reports will be: (i) progress with reference to the
AWPB; (ii) summary of the progress of sub-projects under preparation since the previous report; (iii)
summary of projects under implementation; (iv) summary of sub-projects completed; and, (v) financial
and administration reports. At the end of each year, an Annual Progress Report will be prepared which
will be used as the basis for formulating the AWPB for the forthcoming year.
Accounting, Audit, and Financial Reporting: A computerized accounting system will be put in place
before credit effectiveness. Funds accounts will be maintained in accordance with International
Accounting Standards. The annual financial statements will be audited in accordance with International
Standards of Auditing by independent auditors acceptable to the GOZ and IDA. The audited financial
statements with the auditor's report thereon and the auditor's management letter covering internal control
and accounting procedures weaknesses discovered as a result of the audit will be sent to IDA within six
months of t]he end of the period audited.
Sub-project menu
The following detailed menu of sub-project is not considered to be exclusive and includes:
(a) social infrastructure: (i) additional classrooms or renovation of existing ones; (ii) school
desks and other school furniture; (iii) multi-compartment toilets; (iv) teachers' houses; (v)
additional facilities at health institutions; (vi) basic furnishing for rural health centers; (vii)
staff houses; (viii) boreholes and deep wells; (ix) communal granaries; (x) solar panels for
communal use; and (xi) water supply or electricity connections for existing social
infrastructure.
(b) economic infrastructure: (i) access road construction or improvement; (ii) bridge
construction; (iii) small dam construction and rehabilitation; and (iv) agricultural marketing
depots.
(c) improved natural resources management: (i) soil and water conservation infrastructure; (ii)
gully rehabilitation; (iii) watershed management and erosion prevention; (iv) grazing schemes;
(v) agro-forestry; (vi) alternative energy sources; and, (vii) appropriate agricultural production
systems and practices.
(d) communal activities: (i) community gardens; (ii) children's day centers; (iii) community
halls; and, (iv) support programs for AIDS sufferers.



Page 42
(e) social mobilization: (i) training for leadership; (ii) information dissemination; and, (iii)
community awareness and organization. These are also activities to be financed through
special consultancies when/where needed.
Capacity building activities
Approach to capacity-building: Capacity building would be an integral part of all CAP-financed
activities. Training methods would focus on group problem solving and group decision making, financial
management of sub-projects and strengthening the links between CAP Management Unit and Field
offices, local governments and beneficiary communities. In areas of technical complexity (particularly
for feeder roads and rural water supply activities) training would be supplemented by technical assistance
from experienced experts who would provide a combination of training on-the-job, and consulting
supervision at the actual construction sites.
Capacity Building for Facilitators: CAP will identify and train community facilitators. Training activities
would be flexible and integrated and would consist of a combination of workshops and seminars, and on
the job and on site support. A first set of capacity building activities for this particular target group wili
be on CAP procedures and processes, and in the management of community-based sub-projects. Special
tailor-made programs would also be organized for district and regional officials in sector-specific aspects
of CAP financed activities.
Capacity Building for Beneficiary Communities: The overall goal of capacity building at the community
level is to assist communities to take the lead in utilizing the opportunity offered by CAP. The first level
would focus on training community beneficiaries in the approaches and procedures used by CAP,
methods of identifying sub-projects of benefit to the community, methods of monitoring implementation
progress and evaluating outcomes, and the skills to ensure effective community maintenance of assets.
The second level would be training for community leaders and community project committees in
managing the community's interest in the project cycle, including contracting implementation services.
Training would also cover basic skills in managing finances and supervising work in progress. The third
level would be specialized programs that cover a particular theme (such as environmental conservation,
the needs of poor women and other vulnerable groups, the use of community labor, the essential linkages
among sectoral activities); or provide a specialized skill (for example training in the use of a particular
type of technology or equipment).
Social Mobilization Activities: Provision will be made for promotion of information and outreach
activities amongst the poorest and most vulnerable rural-based communities to ensure that such
communities are made aware of investment opportunities offered under the project, and other similar
programs. Additionally, these communities will also be provided assistance to undertake the initial steps
involved in the preparation and submission of sub-project applications.



Page 43
Project Component 2: Poverty Monitoring - Total cost of the component US $ 3.0 million (IDA US $
3 million).
As secretariat to the TAG, the IPMAS Hub will primarily focus on commissioning studies, policy advice,
dissemination and qualitative data. The project will finance consultant services, training, a poverty study
fund, equipment and operating costs. Outputs are expected to be regular participatory poverty
assessments, other priority studies commissioned from the study fund, supplementary financing to
upgrade ongoing data collection efforts (e.g. FEWS, NHIS, etc.), policy briefs to appropriate central and
local planners and dissemination of information on welfare dimensions to the public, NGOs, academic
institutions, sector associations, etc. through newsletters, workshops, media, etc.
The IPMAS will utilize data and information from various institutional sources. One of the primary
sources is expected to be the Central Statistical Office, which has a mandate and technical expertise to
collect national household survey data. With respect to IPMAS needs, the CSO will primarily focus on
data collection on core welfare indicators, basic poverty profile analysis and basic poverty/inequality
trends analysis. The project will finance consultant services (TA, workshops, study tours), training,
equipment and operating costs necessary to revise household survey design to serve a poverty monitoring
perspective, produce annual poverty profiles and trend analysis analyzing household data and other types
of relevant data, establish and maintain a primary data bank on poverty indicators. Technical assistance
needed to develop guidelines to release/sell household data for authentic research purposes will also be a
priority activity to be funded.
Donor co-financing is being sought for this component.
IDA approval of (i) the Operational Document and (ii) establishment of the TAG and DLRS-PMS, are
conditions for disbursement of the poverty monitoring component.
Project Component 3: CAP Institutional Support - Total cost of the component US $ 9.5 million (IDA
US $ 7 million, GOZ US $ 2.5 million)
This component is designed to provide the administrative support to the CAP Community sub-projects
component. It will finance the administrative staff, including a central CAP Management Unit staffed by
a small core of professional and highly motivated personnel, and field officers in each participating RDC.
A grant (equal across all districts) will be transferred by the PMU to each RDC for financing of the
PAAP Officer in the district and to defray any administrative costs to be incurred by the RDC in fulfilling
its commitment to the CAP program. Other investment (e.g. vehicles, computers for the MIS) and
operating costs necessary to support the CAP's management and facilitation functions, will be financed
under this third component as well.
It will also finance capacity-building activities for CAP staff. Training will be given to emphasize team
building, to enable CAP staff to accomplish its goals with a small number of staff who would build
partnerships with facilitators, sectoral technical personnel at local levels and local government authorities.
By Project Launch, systematic training in procurement, disbursement and implementation related areas
will be provided to all PMU staff and relevant RDC staff (including but not limited to the PAAP Officer).
This component will also include resources that would be used primarily to assess the real benefits of the
CAP from a community point of view, to continue the dialogue with local community started during
project preparation through the Systematic Client Consultation process, to ensure the necessary levels of
quality in sub-project design and maintenance and to monitor achievement of expected project outcomes.



Page 44
Annex 3
Community Action Project
Estimated Project Costs
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Components
Community sub-projects       40.00        0.0        40.00
Poverty monitoring           2.50        0.40         2.90
CAP institutional support     4.80        0.80        5.60
Total Baseline Cost          47.30        1.20       48.50
Physical Contingencies        4.30        0.10        4.40
Price Contingencies          20.00        0.10       20.10
Total Project Cost             71.60        1.40        73.00



Page 45
Annex 4
Community Action Project
Economic Analysis Summary
CAP subprojects: simple screening procedures will be applied to establish the economic
justification of sub-projects:
i. Sub-project resources will be targeted to the poor:
* The CAP will start operations in the 26 most disadvantaged rural districts (out of a total of
57). as identified in the district ranking exercise developed as part of CAP design. Rural districts
have been ranked according to a composite index of different indicators of basic needs estimated
from the Poverty Assessment Study Survey (PASS). In this way, the project would channel
resources to those districts where need is expected to be the greatest.
* CAP resources will be earmarked for individual districts in different proportions, based on
a co-efficient which combines the district's level of deprivation (as per the basic needs index) and
the population size of the district. In accordance with the CAP's poverty reduction objectives,
districts with higher levels of deprivation and larger (poor) populations will be allocated a larger
share of project resources.
* At the time of mid-term review of the project, the district ranking and resource allocation
principles will be reviewed to examine whether earmarked resources are being fully utilized by
each district and in what ways the allocation process needs to be modified to improve CAP's
ability to respond to poorer communities. Furthermore, the basic needs index will be updated to
reflect more recent data on access and outcomes at the district level, expected to be generated
through a strengthened poverty monitoring system.
* Intra-district. CAP will train RDC field officers for CAP in participatory rural
appraisal techniques such that they can collaborate with local development actors to build a
poverty map of communities within a given district. The information on the relative poverty
status of different communities will be made available to the District Review Committee and the
RDC, in order to assist them to make project approval decisions. The intra-district poverty map
will also be a key monitoring instrument for CAP management. They will undertake analysis of
the patterns of demand from, and resource allocation to, communities which are poorer, average
or better off within an individual district. Project appraisal criteria will also give preference to
project proposals emanating from these identified poorer communities.
*  Eligible project proposals must demonstrate clearly that the project leads to reduction
in poverty or vulnerability of the community, especially of vulnerable groups. While most assets
and services funded by the CAP will benefit the community as a whole, particular care will be
taken to maximize benefits to vulnerable groups. A project menu, which lists examples of
appropriate investments, has been prepared reflecting a) indicators of poverty obtained through
participatory assessments during the SCC and b) priority needs of poor communities as obtained
duiring the SCC.
ii. Economically non-viable sub-projects will not be approved. CAP will collect information on the
average cost per beneficiary of different types of community sub-projects in order to ensure that
economically non-viable projects will not be funded.
iii. Technically non-viable projects will not be approved. Sub-projects will be appraised by relevant
sectoral technical staff in order to ensure that the technical specifications of sub-projects are
consistent with reasonable technical feasibility standards.



Page 46
iv. Community contributions as a share of sub-project cost will be taken as an indicator of community
ownership and commitment to maintain the productive life of the assets. A minimum of 20% of total
sub-project cost is to be contributed by communities, althoughi this benchmark may be adjusted to
reflect cost-sharing standards that vary by sector.
v. Audits and beneficiary assessments will be conducted during the lifetime of the project and after the
closing date, to assess project impact.
Attached is the ranking of districts as per the composite indicator of basic needs developed for the inter-
district targeting exercise (Table A4. 1).



Page 47
Table A4.1 RANKING INDICES FOR DISTRICTS: IN ORDER OF FINAL AVERAGE
RANK
- :1,:                --- 2    :         ,         .. 3. '  4.  5.          6.          7           8-
"PROVINCE               DISTRICT             Finat      Fina        liThold   - ho-d       Individ:     Head
R-nk - .-.-R4nk  j  Vulnerab    Acess         Wetbim    . Coont
Index  - ' i-           Rank        Rank .-Rn
.    ,      ,' '          .    E-'          -,-    Indlex  Index  Index  Index
MASVINGO            MWENEZI                          I       0.118       0.000       0.000       0.273       0.200
MASH WEST           KARIBA                           2       0.164       0.509       0.036       0.055       0.055
MASH WEST           MT DARWIN                        3       0.223       0.036       0.127       0.182       0.546
MAT NORTH           HWANGE                           4       0.246       0.091       0.891       0.000       0.000
MAT NORTH           NKAYI                            5       0.255       0.309       0.200       0.291       0.218
MASVINGO            MASVINGO                         6       0.264       0.400       0.055       0.455       0.146
MANICALAND          BUHERA                           7       0.277       0.200       0.291       0.491       0.127
MASH EAST           MUDZI                            8       0.286       0.327       0.346       0.400       0.073
MAT NORTH           BINGA                            9       0.318       0.636       0.582       0.036       0.018
MIDLANDS            GOKWE                           10       0.323       0.527       0.091       0.164       0.509
MAT NORTH           LUPANE                          I1       0.327       0.109       0.364       0.546       0.291
MASH EAST           MUREHWA                         12       0.336       0.218       0.418       0.527       0,182
MIDLANDS            MBERENGWA                       13       0.355       0.182       0.109       0.655       0.473
MASH WEST           HURUNGWE                        14       0.359       0.746       0.218       0.200       0.273
MASVINGO            GUTU                            15       0.364       0.018       0.255       0.927       0.255
MASH WEST           KADOMA                          16       0.373       0.291       0.636       0.327       0.236
MASVINGO  ,         ZAKA                            17       0.377       0.473       0.309       0.564       0.164
MANICALAND          CHIPINGE                        18       0.400       0.618       0.382       0.236       0.364
MAT SOIJTH          GWANDA                          19       0.409       0.164       0.182       0.946       0,346
MIDLANDS            ZVISHAWANE                      20       0.436       0.855       0.164       0.691       0.036
MAT SOUTH           BULALIMAMANGWE                  21       0.455       0.255       0.146       0.582       0.836
MANICALAND          MUTARE                          22       0.459       0.564       0.327       0.618       0.327
MAT NORTH           TSHOLOTSHO                      23       0.464       0.382       0.509       0.418       0.527
MASVINGO            BIKITA                          24       0.468       0.782       0.273       0.709       0.091
MANICALAND          MAKONI                          25       0,468       0.236       0.455       0.727       0.455
MANICALAND          MUTASA                          26       0.473       0.146       0.491       0.509       0.727
MASH EAST           MUTOKO                          27       0.482       0.491       0.473       0.818       0.109
MASH CENT           RUSHINGA                        28       0.486       0.055       0.709       0.746       0.418
MASVINGO            CHIVI                           29       0.491       0.727       0.018       0.891       0.309
MAT SOUTH           INSIZA                          30       0.496       0.346       0.236       0.982       0.400
MIDLANIDS           GWERU                           31       0.505       0.582       0.618       0.109       0.673
MASH CENT           SHAMVA                          32       0.518       0.418       0.655       0.255       0.691
MASH CENT           GURUVE                          33       0.532       0.673       0.400       0.364       0.636
MAT SOUTH           MATOBO                          34       0.577       0.436       0.073       0.800       0.818
MASH EAST           HWEDZA                          35       0.577       0.127       0.746       0.873       0.564
MASH WEST           CHEGUTU                         36       0.582       0.455       0.800       0.309       0.746
MASH CENT           CENTENARY                       37       0.582       1.000       0.873       0.073       0.382
MASH WEST           MAKONDE                         38       0.582       0.873       0.836       0.018       0.600
MASHI EAST          MARONDERA                       39       0.582       0.073       0.691       0.855       0.709
MASH EAST           UZMBA MARAMBA                   40       0.591       0.600       0.546       0.782       0.436
PFUNGWE
MAT SOUTH           BEITBRIDGE                      41       0.591       0.364       1.000       0.146       0.855
MIDLANDS            KWEKWE                          42       0.591       0.691       0.436       0.346       0.891
MIDLANDS            CHIRUMHANZU                     43       0.614       0.273       0.564       0.673       0.946
MANICAILAND         CHIMANIMANI                     44       0.632       0.709       0.727       0.473       0.618
MASH WEST           ZVIMBA                          45       0.659       0.909       0.855       0.091       0.782
MANICALAND          NYANGA                          46       0.664       0.655       0.527       0.600       0.873
MASH CENT           MAZOWE                          47       0.673       0.891       0,909       0.127       0.764
MAT NORTH           BUBI                            48       0.700       0.818       0.964       0.436       0.582
MASH EAST           CHIKOMBA                        49       0.705       0.546       0.818       0.964       0.491
MASH CENT           BINDURA                         50       0.705       0.927       0.600       0.382       0.909
MASH EAST           SEKE                            51       0.755       0.836       0.764       0.764       0.655
MASVINGO            CHIREDZI                        52       0.782       0.982       0.946       0.218       0.982
MASH EAST           GOROMONZI                       53       0.791       0.800       0.927       0.636       0.800
MIDLANDS            SHURUGWI                        54       0.800       0.764       0.673       0.836       0.927
MAT SOUTH           UMZINGWANE                      55       0.900       0.946       0.782       0.909       0.964
MAT NORTH           UMGUZA                          56       0.986       0.964       0.982       I.000       1.000



Page 48
Annex 5
Community Action Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending: June 30
(Currency: US S, base year: FY98)
Fiscal impact:
i. Communities will be expected to contribute a share of individual sub-project costs. As a
condition of sub-project approval, they will also submit a plan for maintenance of the
completed asset. This would show responsibilities and also any financial contributions to be
made by community members or users. As such, it is expected a) that the productive life of
the communal asset will be longer than in the non-participatory planning case, b) that
recurrent cost burden on the public exchequer (central or local) will be lower than in the non-
participatory case.
ii. Sub-project proposals will also be reviewed to ensure that sectoral ministries will provide for
recurrent expenditures generated by the sub-project and for which the sector has
responsibility.
iii. The sub-project menu does not suggest that there will be a significant incremental recurrent
cost burden on GOZ.
Financial accountability:
iv. Mechanisms to ensure financial control and accountability are being designed and
incorporated in the CAP Operational Manual. Thus far it is proposed that: a computerized
accounting system will be put in place before credit effectiveness. Funds accounts will be
maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. The annual financial
statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards of Auditing by
independent auditors acceptable to the GOZ and IDA.
1999    2000   2001  2002   2003
Project Costs (US $ Million)
Investment Costs                   12.9     14.6   15.6   16.6   13.3
Recurrent Costs                       0        0       0     0       0
Total                           12.9    14.6   15.6   16.6   13.3
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IDA                                  86      83      82     80     80
Communities                         13       16      18     19     19
Government                            1       1       0      2       1
Total                            100     100    100    100    100



Page 49
Annex 6
Community Action Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Management: CAP will operate in accordance with detailed procurement procedures
specified in the Operational Manual. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, supplies and services for CAP
will be the responsibility of the Finance and Administration Unit of the CAP. Procurement for sub-
projects will be the responsibility of the beneficiary community. In limited cases, and only when project
materials are not available locally and upon request from the beneficiary community, the PAAP Officer
and the RDC will support the process. Procurement arrangements will be specified in the Project
Agreement signed between CAP and the beneficiary community. Procurement training will be offered to
each beneficiary community at the moment of Project Launch.
Community Project Committee. The Community Project Committee will be responsible for co-ordinating
and managing procurement activity at the project level. The Committee will maintain a register of all
procurement activities and share financial and physical information with the benefiting community.
Rural District Councils. The PAAP Officer will be responsible for monitoring contracts entered into by
the communities at the local level and, when asked, assisting the communities undertaking the tendering
process for materials and goods procured by the communities. The PAAP Officer will be responsible for
maintaining appropriate forms for contracts to be used by the communities. In cases where national
competitive bidding for the sub-projects is necessary, the PAAP Officer may manage the bidding process
on behalf of the community.
Unit-Costs Data Base: CAP will maintain (in the Monitoring Unit) a data base of district specific unit
costs which will be updated on a quarterly basis, as part of the cost control system and to assure that
contract selection is transparent and economic. It will include costs and rates for at least 40 of the most
commonly required items based on project costs during the previous three months, or from a random
sample of suppliers and employers. Unit prices for other required items will be updated on a rotational
basis, to be updated at least two times a year. The data base will be used in appraisal and monitoring, as a
tool to review the project budget, and as a guide when procurement is through direct contracting. Details
of the methodology for preparing the data base will be provided in the Operational Manual.
Procurement methods: Procurement arrangements for CAP have been designed to respond to the need
for flexible use of procurement methods, given the regional differences and disparities in the institutional
capacity of the communities and availability of services, markets and local contractors. A variety of
procurement methods will be used in project implementation.
Community sub-projects. As far as possible, projects will be implemented through civil works contracts.
Such contracts are expected to increase the strengthening of the local construction industry. Works
contracts will be small, ranging mainly from US $5,000 to US $300,000. They are scattered around the
country and unlikely to attract international contractors. ICB for works is therefore not anticipated.
Procurement will be done in the following way: (i) civil works contracts, not to exceed US $300,000
each but more than US $50,000, amounting to IDA US $ 7 million will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). A set of simplified bidding documents in conformity with the Bank
Guidelines; has been agreed upon at Negotiations; (ii) where NCB is not practical, works and labor
estimated to cost less than US $ 50,000 equivalent per contract, upto an amount not to exceed IDA US



Page 50
$41.3 million will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of obtaining
at least three bids from qualified local contractors.
Goods and Materials for Poverty Monitoring and CAP Institutional Support Components. Goods and
materials will be procured according to the following procedures: (i) ICB: vehicles and office
equipment, totaling up to US $0.5 (for IDA) for contracts above US $ 100,000 will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (published in January 1995 and revised in August 1996); (ii)NCB:
contracts for goods available locally for an aggregate amount of US $ 1.9 million, with contracts of
between US $50,000 and 100,000 each will be procured through National Competitive Bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA; (iii) NS: small quantities of office supplies and consumable materials
which are normally available off the shelf at economical prices would be procured through National
Sitopping based on prices quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers (or through the Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (UNDP)), provided that the contract amount does not exceed US
$50,000, upto an aggregate ceiling of US $ 0.9 for goods and materials.
Consultant Services: Consultant service contracts will be awarded in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (published in
January 1997, revised in September 1997), which have been included in the CAP Operational Manual,
and which is also to be included in the IPMAS Operational Document. These will be mainly small
contracts for the training of CAP staff and beneficiary communities, or services related to the
implementation and management activities such as the installment of MIS, technical and financial audits,
studies for the poverty monitoring component, technical assistance contracts for poverty monitoring,
beneficiary assessments, etc. These are expected to total US $ 2.0 million (all IDA) spread over a period
of 5 years and a substantial portion of this will be procured locally.
Procurement Monitoring and Evaluation: CAP (Monitoring Unit) will monitor all procurement-
related information for project implementation. Such monitoring would provide information including
the type of implementing agencies, number and amount of contracts awarded to each type of
implementing agency, procurement methods, amount and nature of contracts procured through each
method, number and amount of contracts subject to prior review by IDA, and number of implementing
agencies that have been directly contracted to execute works.
Prior review by IDA combined with financial audit, technical reviews and ex-post review during project
supervision will ensure that procurement is in compliance with the agreed procedures. All contracts for
goods above US $100,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. The first five works
contracts to be procured through NCB, and first three small works contracts per district, will be subject to
prior review. Other contracts and bids will be subject to selective ex-post review by Bank staff during
regular supervision missions. All contracts for consultancy and training services estimated to cost above
the equivalent of US $ 100,000 in the case of consulting firms, and US $ 50,000 in the case of
individuals, will require prior review by IDA. All single source consultancy or training contracts,
regardless of their value, will be subject to prior review. A technical review of all procurement will be
conducted 12 months after effectiveness to evaluate the economy and efficiency of procurement
arrangements.
The Management Unit will maintain and have available for IDA supervision missions copies of Appraisal
Reports for all sub-projects.



Page 51
Disbursement
The project is estimated to be disbursed over a period of five years. Estimates are based on credit
effectiveness by July 1998.
CAP sub-projects and institutional support components: Disbursement arrangements for sub-projects
are detailed in the Operational Manual. Advance payments up to 20% of the total project costs will be
permitted without any bank guarantee in the case of self-help and civil work contracts below US $ 50,000
in order to encourage the development of grassroots contracting industry. All subsequent disbursements
will be made on the verification of work having been satisfactorily performed and funds disbursed having
been adequately accounted for. Disbursements will be proportionate to the works completed.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): The Management Unit (Financial and Administration Unit) will
be responsible for preparing disbursement applications for submission to IDA. Applications for (a) direct
payments, and (b) issuance of special commitments in guarantee of letters of credit for payments in
excess of the equivalent of US $ 100,000 will be submitted directly to IDA. Expenditures for contracts
for individual consultant services not exceeding US $ 50,000 and for all other contracts not exceeding US
$ 100,000 will be claimed on the basis of statements of expenditures. All other expenditures in excess of
these amounts will be fully documented when submitted to IDA for disbursement. Replenishment
applications for the Special Account will be submitted at monthly intervals, irrespective of the volume of
transactions during each month, together with the required documentation. All documentation supporting
SOEs will be available at the Management Unit to facilitate inspection by Bank supervision missions.
Poverty monitoring component: Disbursement arrangements for the poverty monitoring component
will be finalized and documented in the IPMAS Operational Document. (i) IDA approval of the IPMAS
Operational Document; (ii) establishment of the TAG and DLRS-PMS; and (iii) appointment of the
Poverty Monitoring Manager, are conditions for disbursement of the poverty monitoring component.
Special accounts: A Special Account will be opened in US $ with a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA. The authorized allocation will be US $ 4 million for the Special Account, which is a level sufficient
to cover at least four months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by IDA. However, until
cumulative disbursement reach US $ 13 million equivalent, the initial deposit to the Special Account will
be limited to 50% of the authorized allocation.



Page 52
Annex 6,Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method
ICB  NCB  NS   SW   Other NBF  TOTAL
1. Goods                      (0.5)   (1.9)                                             2.4
2. Cons. Serv., Studies,                                           (2.0)                2.0
and Training
3. Community Sub-                      (7.0)            (41.3)   (1.7)    10.5          60.5
projects
4. Operating Costs                              (0.9)              (4.7)    2.5          8.1
TOTAL                         (0.5)   (8.9)   (0.9)   (41.3)   (8.4)    13.0            73.0
Note:   NBF = Not Bank-financed (includes community contribution to community sub-project costs. GOZ
contribution).
ICB = International Competitive Bidding for vehicles and other goods for contracts valued at above US$
100,000.
NCB = National Competitive Bidding for vehicles, equipment etc. for the CAP institutional support and
poverty monitoring components. It also includes provision for those sub-projects which may need to be
packaged together and be procured through NCB (e.g. borehole drilling), leading to a contract value between
US$ 50,000 - US$300,000.
NS = National Shopping for goods and materials whereby at least three quotations for each contract will be
obtained; for prudent shopping for goods and services to include furniture, office equipment, supplies.
SW = Small Works procurement method as described in the CAP Operational Manual. Simplified
procurement for community sub-projects will be undertaken when NCB is not practical. Works or labor up
to an aggregate of IDA US $41.3 million, each individual contract to be below US $ 50,000, may be
procured through obtaining at least three bids from small local contractors.
Other = includes procurement methods acceptable to IDA for consultancy services. salaries and small
supplies; details are in the Operational Manual and in the Operational Document for poverty monitoring (the
latter to be completed as a condition of component disbursement).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



Page 53
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure      Contract Value            Procurement             Contracts Subject
Category        (Threshold)                Method                       to
Prior Review /
Estimated Total
Value Subject to
Prior Review
US S thousands                                      US S millions
1. Goods               >100,000    International Competitive Bidding           All
100,000 -   National Competitive Bidding
50,000
<50,000    National Shopping
2. Community            300,000 -   National Competitive Bidding     First 5 contracts
Subprojects               50,000
<50,000     Small works                     First 3 contracts in
each district
3. Cons. Serv.,          100,000    Firms
Studies, and
Training                  50,000    Individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                   approx. US $ 5.5
million



Page 54
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in US$ million        Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                                                        100% Foreign
100% Ex-Factory
90 % Local
a. Poverty Monitoring                                   0.30
b. CAP Institutional Support                            0.65
2. Consultant Services and Training                                                 100%
a. Poverty Monitoring                                   1.00
b. CAP Institutional Support                            0.85
3. Subprojects                                            48.50             100%* of amounts of
community grants
disbursed
4. Operating Costs                                                                   80%
a. Poverty Monitoring                                   1.60
b. CAP Institutional Support                            4.90
5. Unallocated                                             2.20
TOTAL                                                     60.00
Note: * Subprojects: The Beneficiary community will be required to contribute approximately 20% of the total cost of an
approved sub-project (the percentage of community contribution may vary by sector given varying sectoral
standards for cost sharing). IDA will finance the remaining approximately 80% of the sub-project cost as a grant to
the community, payable to the community in tranches. Hence IDA will finance 100% of the community grant
amount disbursed.



Page 55
Annex 7
Community Action Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                               Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Actual FY97 BB  $189,000
Planned IFY98 BB  $170,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                          24 months
First Bank mission (identification)                                  4/9/1996
Appraisal mission departure                    4/15/1998            11/10/1997
Negotiations                                   7/27/1998            4/6 /1998
Board discussion                               11/17/1998           5/19/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   1/1/1999             7/1/1998
(proposed)
Prepared by: Ministry of Public Services, Labour and Social Welfare, GOZ
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant, Government of Japan (approx. USD 658, 000)
Bank staff who worked on the project include:
Name                                    Specialty
Core team:
Laura Frigenti                     social fund design
Trina Haque                       poverty analysis
Francisco Pichon                  participatory design and environmental
analysis
Ebrahim Jassat                    rural sociology and NGO liaison
Raj Soopramanien                  legal design
Hope Phillips                     operations analysis
Ada Rivera                        task team assistance
Helena Ribe                       poverty analysis and social fund design
Evangeline Javier                 social fund design
Peer Reviewers:
Alexandre Marc                    social fund design
Jacomina de Regt                  operations quality
Steen Jorgensen                   social fund design
Shelton Davis                     participatory design
Dominique Van de Walle            poverty analysis



Page 56
Annex 8
Community Action Project
Documents in Project File
Government of Zimbabwe documents:
1. PCD of GOZ
2. Report on Geographical Targeting of Districts in Zimbabwe - Social Dimension Fund, Ministry of
Public c Service, Labour and Social Welfare, Government of Zimbabwe, Erica Keogh, August 1997.
3. Systematic Client Consultation, Executive Summary and Final Report, Ministry of Public Service
Labour & Social Welfare, July 1997.
4. Assessment studies ,Executive Summary and Final Report, Ministry of Public Service Labour &
Social Welfare, July 1997.
5. Progress and Financial Report prepared by International Institute for Sustainable Development IIDS,
Canada, Owen Shumba, March 1997.
6. Draft Operational Manual and Annexes
Bank documents:
1. PCD



CAS Annex BS
Generated: 04/23/98
Page 57
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Zimbabwe
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj           Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 26
Active Loans
ZW-PE-3294     IBRD 30790   1989  GOVT.                              URBAN II                      80.00        0.00             0.00         31.34      31.33      16.18       S              S
ZW-PE-3287     IBRD 31790   1990  GOVT OF ZIMBABWE                    FOREST RESOURCE MGT&         14.50        0.00             0.00           .05         .04      0.00       S              S
ZW-PE-3302     IBRD 33390   1991  GOVT                                FAMILY HLTH.II               25.00        0.00             0.00           .55         .55        .55      S              s
ZW-PE-3286     IBRD 32730   1991  GOVT.                               RAILWAYS II                  38.60        0.00             0.00         14.81      14.82       0.00       S              S
ZW-PE-3333     IDA 25160    1993  GOV                                 STI                           0.00       64.50             0.00         24.06      12.51       0.00       S              S
ZW-PE-3309     IBRD 36960   1994  ZESA                                POWER III                    90.00        0.00             0.00         40.08      40.07       0.00       S              S
ZW-PE-35628    IDA 28510    1996  GOV                                 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPM           0.00       70.00             0.00         47.58      -8.18      -4.29       S              S
ZW-PE-45029    IDA N0190    1997                                      PILOT RGC                     0.00       12.25             0.00         11.99       2.47       0.00        S             S
Total                                                                                             248.10      146.75             0.00        170.46      93.61       12.44
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  217.73             1,084.59            1,302.32
of w-hich has been repaid:                  17.35              413.09               430.44
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  377.50               669.17            1,046.67
Amount sold                      :                  0.09               70.32                73.32
Of which repaid                                 7'.09               70.32               79.32
Total Undisbursed                :                170.46                  .46              170.92
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced  HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU =
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology  SecN94-9il!, August 23, 1994.
Nlote:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                    Page i



Page 58
Zimbabwe at a glance                                                                   8128/97
-.   E.  -. .,  ,    -. .  . .      5 S     . . . . .  .     -.   . : : . - R . . . . . . . .   . -   .   . F : . -SS2S   S:,::ES:EEE:fSX,,S,S
POVER,TY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan     Low-
... gE ...E.g.f:;gi ..p .. ..Xpp-: p: p::? Zimbabwe:   Africa  Income               Development diamond*
tP.opulationmid-1996 (llIons)                           11.2       600:   3,229
GNP per capita 1998 ((JS$)iX                            61 39  :0 :i   0 0    06o  2490    : 500  Life expectancy
GNP I996 (AbWons US$)                                   6.8        294    1,601
Avage anual growth' 1990-96
Population (%)                     2.3        2.7      1.7     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNP           Gross
Laborf~~~~~~~~~rca (%) ~~~~~~~~2.2                   26       1.7
per                            primary
Most rec,entestimate (latest year avatlable since 1969)                              capita                       enrollment
PovertyWheadcount Index (% ofpopuli           p       :26i           *
Uirban :population (% o3total populatlon)                32        31       :29
UTfe expetancy at birth'"yeas)                         :57         52        63
Infant  'taltty (per 1,000 live burths): :.              55         92    :69                  Access to safe water
Child malnutrttion (% ofchildrenun1der 5)                16
gA,ccess to safe water :(.96:ofpopulation)Eti;  0  t74             47        53
Illiteracy (%P opopulation age 5+)I                      15        43        34
GrOss.primary enrollment (%  ofschoolage population)  : 115:        72      105            -   Zimbabwe
Male                                                  119         78      112                Low-income group
:'jFemale                                             111        65        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS:
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratios*
GODP (bmilrons US$)                            3.5      4.5        6.6       7.5
Gross domestic investimenrGDP                 26.3     22.7       17.5     17.9              O
Gr:dWislicssilngsGDP::    t  0  S.1 :0 ; 02690 0  0  t4.:    18AOpenness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GIDP            29.5      29.9 .    44.3     44.2
Giross domtestic savings/GO                   25.1    :26.9      '14;8:   :18.4
Gross national savings/GOP        ~~~~~~20.9  23.1     11.7     16.5
Current accouni balance/GDP                    -6.7     -3.4      -5.6     -1.8
Interest payments/GDP                          0.11     2.8        2.9       ..    Savings                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                :5.3     53.4       74.0        .
Total debt service/exports                     0.8     34.0       23.6
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..      60.8
Present value of debtlexports        .         ..         ..    145.9                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-6      1996       1996  1997-05
faveiage annualgrowth)                                                                   -Zimbabwe
ODP                                   3.7      1.8      -2.3       8.1      5.3          ._:
GNPoper capita                       -02-   -1.0        -4.2       7.3      3.6                Low-icome group
Exportsofgoodsand:services            5.3      5.3      3.0        8.8      5.3    _      ___           --:          -    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                   17.0     20.2       17.1     13.9      20
Industry                                      38.0     30.2       29.8     27.5      10A
Manufacturing                               23.5      22.9      21.8      18.7
Services                                      45.1     49.5       53.1     58.6      10                  93                96
Privale consumption                           62.1     46.5       66.0     62.5    -20
General government consumption                12.8     26.6       19.2     19.1                      GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services                 30.7     25.7       46.9     43.7
1975-85  1986-96      1996      1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
Agriculture                                    1.5       1.8     -19.0     41.1      25
Industry                                      -0.3      0.4       -7.7      1.4      20-
Manufacturing                                 3.2     -0.3     -14.0       2.1     15
Services                                       5.8      2.9        5.5      2.5
Private consumption                            5.3      4.1        3.5      4.4       0             2     f4
General govemment consumption                 17.0     -1.0        2.9      8.3  -;o
Gross domestic investment                     -6.4     -1.7      -12.2     13.9    -15
Imports of goods and services                  3.7      5.3       10.4      5.5              -Exports  -OImports
Gross national product                         3.0       1.7      -2.1      9.2
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 59
Zimbabwe
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1996     1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                         50
Consumer prices                              10.0     14.2       22.6     23.0    40
Implicit GDP deflator                         9.5      6.5       23.4     22.2    30
20
Govemment finance                                                                  10
(% Or GDP)                                                                          0 -                I
Current revenue                                 ..    33.3       31.4     28.6            91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                          ..    -3.3       -4.2     -5.3                   GOP def.  0-CPi
Overail surplus/deficit                         ..    -8.8      -10.2    -10.3
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   1,124      2,217    2,499     2,500
Tobacco                                       ..    225         478      694
Gold                                          ..      124       303      294      2,000
Manufacturesr.                                       315        829      850      1,ooo
Total imports (ci)                             ..   1,060       2,128    2,213     1
Food                                          ..      37        118      129       '0
Fuel and energy                                      226        191      239       500
Capital goods                                        298        901    1,046         0.
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..      84       118       125            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..       80       131       137                  DExports   tImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                              105         90       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1985      1995     1996   r
(mrllions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,002    1,229      2.718    3,091      0
Imports of goods and services               1,088    1,211      2,882    3,083         90    1   92  93   94        9       |
Resource balance                              -86       18       -164        8   |
Net income                                    -63     -126       -326     -295
Net current transfers                         -84      -45       121       154   |10
Current account balance.
before official capital transfers          -233      -153      -369     -133    .15
Financing items (net)                         226      253       623       90
Changes in net reserves                         8     -100       -254      43    -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           129      345       962    1,037
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   0.6       1.6       8.7     10.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996                         -
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          187    2,415      4,885
IBRD                                         19      205       560      513                  G          A
IDA                                           0       30       336      335                 684        560
Total debt service                              8      422       651                                 T336
IBRD                                          5       16        94       87                 .
IDA                                           0        0         3         3                         ./C
Composition of net resource flows                                                       955                      461
Official grants                               0      114       307
Official creditors                           -6      115        43
Private creditors                             0      -68        41        ..                                D
Foreign direct investment                     0        3        40        ..                               719
Portfolio equity                              0        0        18         .                   1170
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0       10         0        70      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0       46        47       49      8B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          5        0        48       46       C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    -5       46         -1       3    _        _.                                I
Interest payinents                            1       17        49       44
Net transfers                                .5       29        *50      -41
Development Economics                                                                                               8/28/97



Page 60
Annex 11
SUMMARY
OF
THE ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
The poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population are often the most dependent on
renewable natural resources for income generation and risk aversion. A primary objective of the CAP is
to improve communities management of their natural resources on which they depend for their
livelihood. To this end, the CAP will undertake the following related activities: (1) mainstreaming
environmental assessment review in the CAP sub-project cycle; (2) assessing the environmental impact
of projected CAP investments through an environmental impact study of the Program; (3) raising
community awareness about the environmental impacts of CAP-funded activities and promoting ways to
mitigate or avoid negative effects; and (4) supporting improved natural resource management through
CAP investments in improved natural resource management. These actions are described below.
(1) Mainstreaming environmental assessment review in the CAP sub-project cycle
The Bank is assisting and supporting creation of an effective environmental screening,
evaluating, and supervising mechanism within the CAP Management Unit (MU) which ensures that
funded sub-projects are environmentally sound and sustainable, and that any adverse environmental
consequences are recognized early in the project cycle. This process will result in an understanding of
the major environmental issues and impacts of individual CAP-funded activities, a set of measures to
avoid them or to mitigate those which are unavoidable, and the estimated costs of those measures. Based
on current discussions among the CAP MU, the Zimbabwean Ministry of Mines, Environment and
Tourism (MMET), and the Bank, part of these activities will be contracted out engaging independent
environmental consultants, the University of Zimbabwe, local scientific institutions or specialized NGOs.
Various arrangements will need to be made for mainstreaming environmental review as part of
regular CAP operations--screening, scoping, developing terms of reference (TOR), conducting the
assessments, reviewing the results, and monitoring project implementation. In consultation with the
MMET, CAP preparation team will prepare an Environmental Screening and Reporting Form and
outlined related environmental assessment review procedures based on the results of an Environmental
limpact Study to be carried out of the Program.
In conformity with the recently reviewed 1997 Environmental Impact Assessment Policy and
regulations, these actions are expected to strengthen MMET's administrative and enforcement functions
for environmental review and result in greater sensitization and training opportunities in collaboration
with RDCs, district development committees and communities. This is proposed in the interest of
enhancing the Government of Zimbabwe's existing institutional capacity for enforcing proposed
environmental laws and regulations.



Page 61
2) Assessing the environmental impact of projected CAP activities through an environmental
assessment of the Program
The CAP MU is currently seeking the assistance of the MMET in the design and execution of an
environmental assessment of projected CAP investments. Based on the findings of the SCC and
Assessment Studies regarding the likely mixture of eligible sub-projects to be proposed for CAP funding,
this study will assess the individual and cumulative environmenital impacts of the Program's generic
investments. It is expected that sucih a study will reduce the time and simplify the effort required for
sub-project specific environmenital assessments by (a) identifying issues and proposing mitigative
measures or changes in technology or construction methods and materials (including, for example,
greater reliance on local construction and operating licensing and permitting functions); (b)
recommending baseline data collection needs and methods for monitorable environmental indicators that
will be commonly affected by CAP-funded activities; and (c) reducing environmental review to more
limited studies of impacts unique to certain types of sub-projects, or eliminating the need for selected
project-specific environmental assessments altogether (e.g., using the recommended guidelines or
standards in project agreements, the CAP MU would exempt projects from further environmental review
or study provided they were in conformance).
Based on the findings and recommendations of the proposed study and other available
inforimation, the CAP MU with the assistance of MMET will develop guidelines for identifying
potentially negative impacts and "best practice" standards for mitigating measures associated with
generic sub-projects; assist in the training of CAP local staff and facilitators on how to sensitize
communities and district teams on project screening for environmental assessment; and prepare the
appropriate amendments to the CAP Operational Manual and Technical Handbooks for the various sub-
project sectors (e.g. Water and Sanitation, Social Infrastructure, etc.). The latter will be prepared to
ensure that sipecific design criteria for corrective measures or standard contract specifications to require
environmenital safeguards are incorporated and monitored in project planning and implementation. One
of the advantages of this approach is that it will reduce the amount of time and paperwork associated
witlh conductinig a larger number of environmental reviews for the ongoing Program.
Raising community awareness about the environmental impacts of CAP-funded activities and
promoting ways to mitigate or avoid negative effects
Through the promotion, education and communication activities planned under the CAP, the
Program willl formulate and disseminate messages (through written media, radio, videos, etc.) aimed at
raising community awareness about possible adverse environmental impacts of CAP sub-projects (for
example, unsustainable use of fuelwood for brick firing or any other damaging construction-related
activities). The CAP MU will actively examine experiences with alternatives construction materials and
techniques which have been used with success in other areas (for example, use of soil-cement bricks or
cement block construction). In conjunction with the MMET and CAP local staff and facilitators, the
Program will' promote those alternatives that are found to be technically sound and acceptable to
communities, while helping to take pressure off natural resources. It will also disseminate criteria and
standards for environmentally sustainable sub-projects, including information about appropriate
construction materials and methods in environmentally sensitive areas, site selection criteria, design
criteria, and other area and region-specific measures to mitigate likely adverse impacts.



Page 62
Supporting improved natural resource management through CAP investments
While indirectly benefiting from the externalities of improved natural resource management, poor
communities may not perceive environmental degradation to be more important than for example,
construction of infrastructure such as school buildings, health posts, boreholes, and other projects
eligible for support under the CAP. Because poor communities often lack the impetus and initial capital
to get started, environmental problems often have to be pro-actively targeted at the community level. To
this end, the CAP MU will play an active role in promoting and supporting projects aimed at improving
poor communities' management of the natural resources which they control and depend on for their
livelihood. Examples include: reforestation, mitigation or prevention of soil erosion, small-dam
maintenanice, catchment area protection, stream bed protection, improved waste management, grazing
schemes, and establishment of community woodlots. among others. In collaboration with the relevant
line ministries, it is expected that such types of sub-projects will need to be identified and planned
consistent with regional and sectoral priorities, and ensuring that environmentally related eligibility
criteria, technical standards, and administrative structures are compatible with communities' needs and
management capacity.



IZ-A IRE   '   .TANZANIA                                  28'                                    3'0'                  k   b              2'
ANGOLA     -      '--                                                                          7i.
ZAMBIA
-16,~~~~~~~~~~~~r'f'i,A/                                                                                        6
,-~~~<  (~~~)  -16' ~~~MOZAMBIQUE
Hosn  jMCOZAMB'IQ'UE                                                                                 GUR"uv'
NAMIBIA    BOTSWANA   ~ '        INMAN               7 AM  BNIA--NAKY' 
soliri                 -               C'AN                                                   .   /URUNGW E                                 Z7  - MT.
SOUT. H                              OCEANK                                                                                                 IDARWIN  ~RIJSHINGAN--
ATkANT;C                         jS'ZLN,./S                                                                                          MAS/-fHONALAND             x Ao
I        I~mASHONALAt4D    * 
O(TAI'I ~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,-.                                     Lake KARIBA                         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(   'CENT'RAL "'i- ~~~~~~~~~~~Loe  ARBAi ~
(EOTHO                                                 Karit)o                   WEST 71   S=AVA( >(                                       MUDZI 
SOUTH AFRICA                                             /                                        -Ia -rdr                                       
__________________________                                                     kj   ~~~~~~~MAKONDE                          <'
____________________________________                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~GOIKWE NO0RTH           L.                            uioiI
*            7       BINGA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ZW'IMBA                                 ~ 
I                     HA~~AR~~H~ra~~ IMUREHWA/
18 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-'                            /                                    I                            O,P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r_1AVAA)AND2,  18
-1                                             (sUIU   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'SEKE I  ""AST  WA
GOWESOUTFH                KADOMA18N
IN   ',-                                              I  -~MNGAA4
HWANGE                                                                                                            \
MATABALELAND\-t LUPAN   INKAYI'                     KWEKWE                      .CI(MA( '''"~
NORTH                                             MDAI5U~MtL~
/  /  ,'             I                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHIRUMHANI7>'             MUTARE
I'--'                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GWERU  Gweru             BIHRA<
*~~~~*5 ~TSHOLOTSHO   IHUUWGtJTUJ
'~~~ \/Na/a  UMOUZA'                     I         iX\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_\C.HIMANIMAhlj
-20'                                                                                                                  -        Mysvingo E         -'                                    20'
ZIMBABWE                                                                2- /< mzl- -Z-N  IlISILP f<  ~       \ 'MAS\/4N O,'                IKT
RURAL DISTRICT COUNCILS                                                 -                      WN1",'T CI!                                     AA~                   IIG
AND PROVINCES                                                    ''~ 'N~-i                                                                                          
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                MOO     GAU                     B fE C            A                                            f
MATABALELANb   K,
---RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL BOUNDARIE$                     ~SOUTH                                      '.                            HRDI /"~
BUBl  RURAL DISTRICT COUNCIL NAMES                                ____ 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                       ,5~~~~~~~~~~~~ EIEITBRIEIOF  7                This mop sean produced by the Ths - ~a prducd b fh
22'     -  - -  ~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                   -Map Desig,i V,,i of The World Bark.
22'                                                                                                   \.The b-undaries, colors, dlenominations
100                                                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti epdo -y oth imply oethe pArto
>         09                 9                20KIOETR            B 0  T S  WA  A  N  A                                                                         Th- sso sythriedorsssGtio haryj,non. 
<                                                                                                                                   o,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'...\the Wor.ldtBt.h Gfep.oy f-idgsssor  
26'                                            ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~SOUTH,  'AF"I A ,                 heleals.mtatuso-aa,,trritry cr
'-26                                                                              2.8'                              ,                            ~,32' such bounda-ies 



