OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
GRANT NUMBER TF011453
EDUCATION FOR ALL - FAST TRACK INITIATIVE
CATALYTIC TRUST FUND
Grant Agreement
(Third Basic Education Program Support Grant)
between
BURKINA FASO
* and
NT ERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as administrator of the
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative
Catalytic Trust Fund
Dsted           -, 2012


﻿GRANT NUMBER TF011453
GRANT AGREEMENT
Agreement dated A        k   -A.o      2012, entered into between, on the one
hand, BURKINA    FASO   ("Recipient"), and on the other hand    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator of the Education for All - Fast Track
Initiative Catalytic Trust Fund ("Trust Fund") ( "World Bank") for the purpose of providing a
grant in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The World Bank
has decided to provide this grant on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recip:ent has
a!ready taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of the Schedule to this
Agreement, and (b) the Recipient's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Recipient and the World Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTiCLE I - STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITONS
1.01.  The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires, otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II - GRANT
2.01. The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to thirty-five million Doliars
($35,000,000) ("Grant").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in support of the Program in
accordance with Section Il of the Schedule to this Agreement.
2.03.  Ve Grant is funded out of the Trust Fund, for which the World Bank receives periodic
contributions from the donors to the Trust Fund. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the
Standard Conditions, the World Bank's payment obligations in connection with this
Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made available to it by the donors under the
Trust 7und, and the Recipient's right to withdraw the Grant proceeds is subject to the
availability of such funds. Accordingly, in the event that any donor cancels or fails to pay
any contributions under the Trust Fund to the World Bank for any reason, or that as a result
of currency exchange variations the amount of funds available in the Trust Fund is
,.sufliie.t for the purposes of the Grant, the Recipient shall bear the risk of such fiding
shortfall and the World Bank shall not have any liability whatsoever to the Recipient or to
any third parties in respect of any expenditures or liabilities incurred by the Rez ipient or any
third parties in connection with this Agreement which exceed the amount of funds made
available to the World Bank by the donors for the purposes of the Grant.


﻿ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
301.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its imolementatic.n  To this
end:
(a)    the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework and
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the World
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c)    w irhoua limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Recipient shall p.omptly inform the World Bank of any situation tHa would
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
JRrTILE IV - REMEDIES OF THE WORLD BANK
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  Th7s Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Wo.1d Bank
has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below have been
satisfied.
(a)    the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and
(b)    the World Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying
out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, there
shall be furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank. or, if the World Bank so requests, a certificate
satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Recipient, showing, on behalf
of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and de.erec on its behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms.


﻿5.03.  Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement shall
enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the Recipient notice
of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement. If,
before said date, any event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to
suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice
referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.
5.04.  This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not
entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, unless the
World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the
purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall prorr.ptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard Conditions is
its minister responsible at the time for finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions is:
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
03 BP 7050
Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Cable:               Telex:               Facsimile:
SEGEGOUV             5555                 226-50-31-27-15
6.03.  The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions is:
Interntional Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Vashi:gcn, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:               Facsimile:
NDEVAS               248423(MCI)          1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
-3-


﻿AGREED at       luayo           t  ,                       , as of the day and
year first above written.                                          a c
BURKINA FASO
Authorized Representaiive
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
acting as administrator of the
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative
Catalytic Trust Fund
Authorized Representative
II


﻿SCHEDULE
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds
Section I.   Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under
the ?rogram include the following:
A.     Increased Access and Equfty.
1. The Recipient has fully operationalized the multi-grade system for Primary Schools (in
particular rural Primary Schools), commencing Academic Year 2011-2012, by: (a)
finalizing the guide for multi-grade teaching based on feedback from teachers and teacher
supervisors in the field to ensure acceptance of the guide by the users; (b) distributing the
updated guide to all teachers and supervisors involved with multi-grade teaching; and (c)
offering training for all teachers and supervisors newly involved with multi-grade
teaching to carry out and manage such teaching properly in the classroom.
2.     The Recipient has enhanced the involvement of local communities in the education
process by expanding the decentralization process to ensure that: (a) over time, the
school construction programs in each Municipality where a Local Education
Management Committee has been established are finalized and initiated only after
consultation with said Local Education Management Committee on the implementation
of such construction program; and (b) ensuring that starting Fiscal Year 2011, the school
construction programs in at least 12 of said Municipalities have been finalized and
initiated only after such consultations with their Local Education Marager.ent
Committees.
3.     The Recipient has introduced a new distance education training program for students
training to become math and/or science teachers in Secondary Schools and has enrolled at
least twenty-five new students in said program for Academic Year 2011-2012.
B.       :pros ed Internal Efficiency.
The Recipient has introduced a system for monitoring the time spent by Primary and
Secondary School teachers throughout the Recipient's territory in the classroom actually
teaching and has published the results of said monitoring for Academic Year 2010-2011
in newspapers of wide circulation, all with the objective of improving the amount of time
spen' by said teachers effectively teaching students.
2.     The :ecipien^ has operationalized a system, commencing Academic Year 2011-2012,
designed to provide to all Primary and Secondary Schools, and their teachers, as well as
Primary and Secondary School teacher training institutions throughout the Recipient's
territory, performance assessments of such entities' students, and recommendations,
based on said assessments, of ways to improve teaching approaches, with the objective of
improving pre-service training and teaching in primary and secondary level classrooms.
-5-


﻿C.    Diversification of Technical Education and Vocational Training.
The Recipient has: (1) adopted a regulatory framework designed to encourage the
introduction of Dual Apprenticeship training programs, whereby students attending
technical and vocational training programs intern in private enterprises as part of their
training; (2) introduced and operationalized, commencing Academic Year 2011 - 2012,
said programs in at least four training institutions; and (3) informed the public through
appropriate media channels of such Dual Apprenticeship opportunities available to
primary education graduates who attend technical education and vocational training
programs.
D.    HIV/AITDS, 1lzth, -Nutrit4ion.
The Recipient has adopted and introduced, commencing Academic Year 2011, a revised
curriculum for secondary education that integrates health, nutrition and HVIAIDS
education.
Section 1.   Availability of Grant ?roceeds
A.    General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify
by notice to the Recipient.
3.    Aocat.oo of Grant Amounts. The Grant is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Grant. The allocation of the
amounts of the Grant to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations                 Amount of the Grant Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                 35,000,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                                  35,000,000
C.    Y't'drawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the World Bank is
satisfied:
I.    with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; and
2,    with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.
D.    Deposts of Grant Amounts. Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree:
1     all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Worid Bank into an
account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the World Bank; and


﻿2     the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into this
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient's budget management
system, in a manner acceptable to the World Bank.
E.    7,ciuded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Grant was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient
shal, 1romptlN upon notice from the World Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such
payment to the World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
F.    Closing Date. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard
Conditions is September 30, 2012.
-7-


﻿APPENDIX
Definitions;
Modifications to Standard Conditions
Section 1.   Der2ldons
"Academic Year" means a period commencing October 1 of one calendar year and
ending July 15 of the next following calendar year.
2.    -'Dual ApprenZiceship" means training provided to students in technical and vocational
training programs, which includes practical training in the private sector as a condition of
award of a certificate of completion of said training.
3.     "Education Law" means the Recipient's Law No. 013-2007 of July 30, 2007 entitled "Loi
d'Orientation de l'Education" governing. education, as said law may be amended from
time to time.
4.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
.esignated by the World Bank by notice to the Recipient:
Group      Sub-group     Description of Item
112                      Alcoholic beverages
121                      Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122                      Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                      Radioactive and associated materials
667                      Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718          718.7       Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728          728.43      Tobacco processing machinery
897          897.3       Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971                      Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
0


﻿(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
the Recipient; is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f)    with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds, without the Recipient (or other
such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the
World Bank to address such practices when they occur.
5.    "Fiscal Year" means the Recipient's fiscal year, which is the calendar year.
6.    "Local Education Management Committee" means a committee known as "comite de
gestion d'ecole" established and operating pursuant to the Recipient's Decree No. 2008-
236/PRES/PM/MEBA/MESSRS/MASSN/MATD entitled "Dicret portant organisation
de 'enseignement primaire" dated May 8, 2008, as said decree may be amended from
time to time.
7.     "Municipality" means an administrative division of the Recipient known as "commune",
established and operating pursuant to the Recipient's Law No. 55.2004/AN dated
December 21, 2004, as said law may be amended from time to time.
8.     "Primary School" means a school in the Recipient's territory offering primary education
("enseignement primaire"), as defined in the Education Law.
9.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty through reforms in the Recipient's
basic education system, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated January 12, 20   2
from the Recipient to the World Bank declaring the Recipient's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the World Bank in support of
the Program during its execution.
10.   "Secondary School" means a school in the Recipient's territory offering post primary
("enseignement post primaire") education and/or secondary education ("enseignement
secondaire"), as defined in the Education Law.
I1.   "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Grant allocated to the c3te gory
erti-led "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
-9-


﻿12.    -Standard Conditions" means the "Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World
Bank Out of Various Funds", dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix
Section I.  MNodifications to the Standard Conditions
The modifications to the Standard Conditions are as follows:
1I Sections 2.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 2.07 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article II are renumbered accordingly.
2.     Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
3.     ?.ragap'n, (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.04. Documents; Records
.      (c)    all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing expenditures under the Grant are retained until two years after the
Closing Date.."
4.     Paragraph (b) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.05. Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
...    (b)    (i) if so requested by the World Bank, ensure the preparation and
delivery to the World Bank of one or more reports ("Program Reports"), in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank, integrating the results of such monitoring and
evaluation activities and setting out measures recommended by the Recipient to ensure
the continued efficient and effective execution of the Program, and to achieve the
Program's objectives; each Program Report to cover the period specified in the World
Bank's request and to be furnished to the World Bank not later than the date specified for
that purpose in the World Bank's request; and (B) afford the World Bank a reasonable
opporIanity to exchange views with the Recipient on such report, and thereafter
implement such recommended measures, taking into account the World Bank's views on
the matter; and (ii) ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank, not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the
World Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance
by the Recipient and the World Bank of their respective obligations under the Grant
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant."
5.     The last sentence of paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 (relating to Applications) is deleted in
its entirety.
1 A


﻿6.     Sections 3.05 (Designated Accounts) and 3.06 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered accordingly.
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions
are modified or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added
in alphabetical order to. the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
aczordirgly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Grant is put in support of the
Program, r "er than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Grant
Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modi ledC
to read as follows:
'"Program' means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in support of
which the Grant is made." All references to "Project" throughout these Standard
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program".
-11-


