                         PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)

                                          CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                              Report No.: AB7001

Operation Name                FAST TRACK INITIATIVE GRANT III FOR BASIC
                              EDUCATION
Region                        AFRICA
Sector                        Primary education (35%); Secondary education (35%); Public
                              administration- Education (10%); Pre-primary education (10%);
                              Adult literacy/non-formal education (10%)
Project ID                    P127166
Borrower(s)                   GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
Implementing Agency           MINISTRY OF ECONOMY & FINANCE
Implementing Agency           Contact: Ministry of Economy and Finance of Burkina Faso
Address                       Title: Minister of Economy and Finance of Burkina Faso
                              01 BP 7008 Ouagadougou 01
                              Phone: +(226) 50 32 42 11
                              Fax: +(226) 50 31 27 15
                              Email: Dg.coop@finances.gov.bf
Date PID Prepared             September 13, 2011
Estimated Date of             October 31, 2011
Appraisal Authorization
Estimated Date of Board       December 15, 2011
Approval


   I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR CONTEXT

1.      Economic recovery in Burkina Faso gained momentum in 2010, after a period of recession
during the previous years. Agriculture especially cotton and mining have been the main sources of
growth, though the economy is now less reliant on the cotton sector. The mining sector is likely to play
an increasingly important role in the future. The recent shocks to the economy have been alleviated by a
rebound in the international cotton price and increasing gold prices. Inflation has been low. In the fiscal
area, revenue collection has improved, but capital expenditure was lower than expected. Budget
execution was exceptional during the first half of the year. However, capital and pro-poor spending were
lower than expected mainly because of procurement system weaknesses and low administrative
capacity.

2.      Burkina Faso’s economic growth is expected to remain strong in 2011. GDP growth is projected
at 5.5 percent in 2011, 5.6 percent in 2012 and 6.2 percent in 2013. However, sustained economic
growth needs to be shared more widely among the population, partly through generation of productive
employment opportunities. The overall poverty rate seems to be decreasing. Access to basic services has
improved thanks to increased public expenditure and targeted social service provisions. Government
spending on education, health, water and sanitation has increased steadily. Nevertheless, there is still
significant scope for improving the efficiency and equity of public spending and the quality of services.

3.     In order to ensure proper alignment of development priorities with resource allocation, the
government has been steadily improving its budgetary process. Since 2002, the government has been
preparing a global Medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) as the first step in the budget
preparation process. The allocations in the MTEF have been in line with the PRSP priorities as the
government devotes a large share of the discretionary budget to priority sectors. The MTEF also allows
Burkina Faso to be responsive to changing fortunes.

4.      Education and training is one of the key priorities in the government’s development program and
the proposed Third Basic Education Program Support Grant (BEPSG 3), the third and last in a series of
three Development Policy Grants financed partly by the Global Partnership for Education Fund , aims to
support Burkina Faso sustain and deepen its continued reforms in the education and training sector
started under the Ten-Year Basic Education Development Program (PDDEB). The first grant in the
amount of US$ 22 million was approved on June 29, 2009. The second was approved in March 29,
2011. The proposed third grant which will largely complete the reforms implemented in the first two
operations is expected to be approved in December 2011.

5.      In partnership with donors involved in the sector, the Government started implementing the first
phase of the PDDEB in 2002, and has achieved substantial success over the period. The gross
enrollment rate increased from 42.7% in 2002 to 77.6% in 2018, although serious disparities continue to
exist across regions. The quality of education also improved and management of the system was
strengthened. Nevertheless, inefficient utilization of resources, such as teachers, and an over centralized
management system continues to be of concern.


6.      The first phase support to the Government’s Basic Education Sector Development Program
(2002-2007) also enabled the Ministry of Basic Education (MEBA) to strengthen harmonization among
development partners in the sector. An external evaluation of the 2000 – 2007 sector plan benefitted
from discussions carried out during the 2007 joint government/LDG education sector review and the
national consultations on the status of education including options for the reform of the education
system. The results of the evaluation and consultations formed the basis for drafting and approving the
2007 Education Law, and led to a national consensus on the purpose and role of education in Burkina
Faso as well as on the key priority areas in the sector during the 8 years from 2008 to 2015. The PDDEB
II (2008-2011) introduced further reforms for the development of basic education while maintaining
focus on quality and improving management of the sector. The PDDEB II also aims at improving the
quality and relevance of the curriculum and increased retention at all levels. Achieving these qualitative
and quantitative objectives would require reforms in the administrative, fiduciary and pedagogical
management of the system to optimize utilization of resources. Implementation of the reform program
in BEPSG 1- 3 will help achieve the objectives of PDDEB II.


   II. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

7.      The BEPSG-1-3 supports the Government’s Ten-Year Basic Education Sector Program which
aims to (i) Improve access and equity in basic education which includes preschool, primary and lower
secondary education, as well as secondary vocational, and literacy programs, (ii) Improve quality,
efficiency, and relevance of basic education, including technical education and vocational, and (iii)
Strengthen sector management including administrative, fiduciary and pedagogic management, partly
through decentralized management of basic education services.

8.     This operation forms and integral part of the government’s overall development program as
described in the SCADD and will be complementary to the efforts of other donors. The key policy areas
that would be covered in the program are shown below.



                                                    2
   III. MAIN POLICY AREAS

9.      The policy measures included in this operation are designed to ensure availability of resources in
a timely manner for key activities in the sector, to address key policy and institutional constraints in the
provision of good quality basic education to a larger proportion of children especially girls and those in
the rural areas and to expand training opportunities for youth and better align skills training with the
labor market. Rural children and girls who are currently disproportionately disadvantaged will be the
main beneficiaries of these reforms. Specifically, the main policy areas to be supported in BEPSG 3
are: (i) updating and distribution of multi-grade teaching guide and training of teachers in the use of the
guide (ii) decentralization of school management responsibilities, including Construction, to
communes; (iii) distance training for secondary school student teachers in math and science; (iv)
increasing the actual number of teaching hours in schools; (v) strengthening the system for assessment
of student learning; (vi) improving the quality and relevance of technical education and vocational
training and (vii) further development of the school health and nutrition system.

   IV. RATIONAL FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT

10.    Despite progress in implementing its development agenda, Burkina continues to rank towards the
bottom of the Human Development Index and the country is unlikely to reach several MDG’s by 2015.
The country maintains a comparatively low ranking of 173 out of 179 countries in the UNDP Human
Development Index. And while Burkina Faso is on track to reach the MDG targets for access to potable
water and reduced HIV prevalence, significant challenges exist with respect to attaining the rest of the

11.     MDGs, in particular those related to literacy, gender, infant mortality, sanitation and maternal
health. In education, the literacy rate reached only 28.7% in 2007 and the quality of education has
remained low. In health, mortality figures remain alarming with very high infant and juvenile mortality,
respectively at 81 per 1,000 and 184 per 1,000 in 2003. Of particular concern is the deterioration in
malnutrition rates over the last decade. Burkina also compares less favorably than other countries for
assisted births despite efforts to improve health provision. The worsening global financial situation is
likely to have a negative impact on Burkina’s progress towards attaining the MDG’s. Further
development of the education sector will not only help raise the level of education of the population in
the medium and long term but will have positive impact on the health indicators through changes in
behavior. Better educated parents, especially women in addition to demanding higher levels of eduation
for their children also adopt better health, sanitation and nutrition practices.

12.      To address these issues, the Government and Partners have formally requested the Bank to lead
the effort to put in place an education sector program financed by GPEF , including acting as the
supervising agency for the utilization of the funds. This is a key role for the Bank since these funds are
essential to help consolidate the gains achieved in the first phase implementation of the Ten-Year Basic
Education Program and will help deepen the reforms that would permit achievement of the MDGs in the
education sector. The Bank’s support is particularly relevant given that IDA has always played a major
role in the policy dialogue in the education sector and until recently was the lead donor for the education
sector. In this role the Bank has supported the GoBF in preparing Country Status Report for the
education sector which has been the basis for policy dialogue and the updating the education sector
program. The GoBF and partners active in the education sector are fully committed to the program and
the performance of the education sector has been satisfactory.



                                                     3
   V. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

13.    The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for overall management of the Grant.
The Permanent Secretariat which is responsible for the Monitoring the implementation of Basic
Education Development Plan (SP-PDDEB) in the MEBA will lead the Government’s technical team
responsible for implementation of the policy reforms and institutional strengthening supported by
BEPSG 1-3. This Secretariat works in close collaboration with representatives of the Ministries of
Economy and Finance; Labor and Employment, Social Protection, Basic Education and Literacy;
Secondary Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research; Decentralization; Public
Administration and representatives of teachers unions and parents associations. Implementation of the
policy and institutional changes will be carried out by the respective departments of the ministries
involved in the program.

   VI. RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

14.      Macroeconomic risk. The recent rebound in gold and cotton price has helped Burkina Faso
recover from the global economic crisis. However, the country remains heavily exposed to swings in the
terms-of-trade and weather-related shocks. The growing import demand consistent with economic
activities and increasing oil prices, coupled with a deterioration of the terms of trade, could weaken the
country’s external position. This could make it difficult for the government to make the necessary
budgetary allocations to the education and training sector. Effective implementation of growth-
enhancing reforms and export diversification will help mitigate these risks.

15.    Education sector risks.       Reforms related to multi-grade classes, abolition of biennial intake,
enrollment and equity may trigger resistance. To mitigate these risks, the Government has undertaken a
nationwide campaign to build consensus around these policies before they were introduced. They would
also put in place the necessary support systems to permit successful implementation of the multi-grade
program.


16.     Decentralization.       The decentralization strategy raises significant challenges, including in the
education sector. Officials at the center may resist the transfer of responsibilities to local Governments,
while local Governments may lack resources and capacity to carry out their new responsibilities. To
address this issue, the Government has adopted a participatory and gradual decentralization approach
that includes establishing a framework for increased collaboration between the de-concentrated units and
local government authorities as well as increased involvement of communities in the management of
schools. The Government also plans to adopt a school-based approach to bring significant benefits to
schools in the short term while capacity for full devolution is being put in place.


   VII.    POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

17.     The BEPSG 1-3 series is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty
reduction. First, the expansion of quality basic education targeting in particular rural areas will help
increase individual and family incomes and economic growth by providing opportunities aimed at
increasing productivity in the rural and urban economies. In addition, targeted interventions to increase
the participation of disadvantaged groups, including girls in the education system, would help promote

                                                     4
greater social cohesion and increased productivity of these groups. It will also help promote economic
growth. Externalities from increased levels of education will help raise the standards of living of
communities and disadvantaged groups.

18.    Second, the strengthening of public financial management is expected to enhance efficiency,
transparency and accountability in the use of public resources. Such measures will increase the country’s
absorptive capacity for external resources as it will enhance social service delivery, particularly for the
poor. Both of these measures will help increase returns to investments in the education sector.

19.     Third, the reforms related to decentralization/deconcentration including piloting initiatives for
closer involvement of families and communities in the management of schools will help promote
efficient use of resources and increased learning outcomes by building stronger community/school
organizations that would work more effectively to improve the teaching/learning process. A significant
byproduct from increased transfer of resources to communities would be higher incomes in those areas
as a result of increased demand for local goods and services.


   VIII.   SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (including safeguards)

20.     The potential environmental effects associated with the implementation of the reforms supported
by the proposed BEPSG1-3 are mainly related to school construction and unlikely to have significant
negative environmental effects. The Government of Burkina Faso has tasked the Ministry of
Environment to supervise compliance of public policies and programs following its environmental
regulations. While conducting the PRSC in May 2007, the environmental team assessed the readiness of
the recipient to deal with environmental issues.

21.     The assessment found that Burkina Faso has the necessary regulations pertaining to
environmental assessment but that compliance with such regulations is weak. To overcome that, the
Ministry of Environment has prepared a program budget to reflect its institutional and technical capacity
needs until 2010, during the course of which some of its staff benefited from technical training in
budgeting techniques. Furthermore, support for Burkina’s environmental compliance is provided by the
environmental management activities in several IDA financed investment projects in the sectors of
energy, forestry, cotton/agriculture, and health; none of which revealed any major issue. The activities
implemented under BEPSG1-3 did not require application of the Government regulations related to the
environment or resettlement. Therefore, as some negative impacts may arise during implementation
which may lead to potential land acquisition essentially during construction. These impacts will be
temporary and localized, and proper mitigation measures during construction could minimize or even
eliminate them. During preparation, the exact extent and locations of proposed sub-projects to be
undertaken under the Basic Education Development Program will draw on extensive Environmental
Assessments undertaken during the preparation of the Basic Education Support Project and the Post
Primary Education Project which took into account the environmental analysis conducted for other Bank
operations, as well as the capacity of national and local public sector agencies to manage the
environmental and social issues faced by Burkina Faso. (ESMP and RPF) which explains in detail what
actions to take during project implementation and includes the preparation and disclosure of site-specific
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) and RAPs prior to the commencement of civil works.

Tentative financing: (US$ 35 million)

Source: Global Partnership for Education Fund (GPEF)


                                                    5
   IX. CONTACT POINT

Contact: Adama Ouédraogo
Title: Senior Education Specialist
Tel: 5354+6314 / +(226) 50.49.63.14
Fax: +(226) 50.49.06.30.64
Email: aouedraogo1@worldbank.org
Location: Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso (IBRD)

Recipient: Ministry of Economy and Finance of Burkina Faso
Contact: Ministry of Economy and Finance of Burkina Faso
Title: Minister of Economy and Finance of Burkina Faso
01 BP 7008 Ouagadougou 01
Phone: +(226) 50 32 42 11
Fax: +(226) 50 31 27 15
Email: Dg.coop@finances.gov.bf

For More information Contact:
The InfoShop etc
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC.20433
Telephone: (202)458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                6
