Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15708
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662/Credit 1665-IN)
June 11, 1996
Agricultural and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs.13.0 = US$1.00 (Appraisal-April 1985)
Rs.26.1 = US$1.00 (Intervening years average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
I Meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kim) = 0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
I million cubic metres (m3) = 804 acre-feet (ac-ft)
I cubic metre per second (m3/s) = 35.28 cubic feet per second (cusec)
I kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds (lb)
I metric tonne (mt) = 2,205 pounds (lb)
I thousand million cubic feet (TMC) = 28.3 million cubic metres (Mm3)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP                Andhra Pradesh
APAU              Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
APM               Adjustable Proportional Module
CADA              Command Area Development Authority
CADD              Command Area Development Department
CCA               Cultivable Commanded Area
CWC               Central Water Commission
GCA               Gross Commanded Area
GOAP              Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI               Govemment of India
ICB               Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
I&CADD            Irrigation and Command Area Development Department
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
LMD               Lower Manair Dam
OC                Outlet Committee
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
OFD               On-Farm Development
PAP               Project Affected Person
PPM               Project Preparation and Monitoring Wing (of I&CADD)
PWD               Public Works Department
RAP               Resettlement Action Plan
R&R               Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RD                Revenue Department
RWS               Rotational Water Supply
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SIN               Structured Irrigation Network
SRBC              Sfisailam Right Branch Canal
SRS               Sriramasagar
TMC               Thousand Million Cubic Feet
WALAMTARI    Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute
GLOSSARY
Hot Season               March to May
Kharif (Monsoon Season)  June to September
Rabi (Dry Season)        October to February
Irrigated Dry            Irrigated land designated for crops other than rice and sugarcane
Irrigated Wet            Irrigated land designated for growing rice and sugarcane



FOR OFFICIAL USE,ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662/Credit 1483-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................,,                                                         i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  i..
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT   .                          .
A. Project Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                           .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .4
D. Project Sustainability .9
E. Bank Performance .9
F. Borrower Performance .13
G. Assessment of Outcome .14
H. Future Operations .14
I. Key Lessons Learned .14
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES                  ..17
1. Summary of Assessments .17
2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits.                                                   19
3. Project Timetables .20
4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements .20
5.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                                  21
6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation .23
7.  Studies Included in Project .24
8.  Project Costs and Financing .26
A. Project Expenditure .26
B. Project Financing .26
9.  Economic Costs and Benefits .27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwisc bc disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



10.   Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................................  28
11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............   ........................ 31
12.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................................... 32
13.   Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................................  32
Appendix A. FAO/CP Mission Aide Memoire ......................................................... 33
Appendix B. Resettlement and Rehabilitation ......................................................... 46
Appendix C. Economic Re-evaluation ............................................................   50
TABLES
1.   Cumulative Benefitted Area (ha) Srisailam .55
2.  Summary of Financial and Economic Prices.                                        56
3.    Sriramasagar km 0-146 - Expenditures and Completion Costs .57
4.    Sriramasagar km 146-234 - Expenditures and Completion Costs .58
5.    Sriramasagar km 234-284 - Expenditures and Completion Costs.                   59
6.    Srisailam RBC - Expenditures and Completion Costs .60
7.  Construction Conversion Factor .61
8.  Economic Analysis - Sriramasagar .62
9.    Economic Analysis - Srisailam Right Bank Canal .63
10. Economic Analysis - Whole Project .64
Appendix D. Final Evaluation Report from the Borrower and Comments on ICR ....... ........ 65
Map IBRD 18986R
Map IBRD 18842
Map IBRD 18843



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662-IN/Credit 1665-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation Project in India for which a combined loan (Loan 2662-IN) for US$131 million and
credit (Credit 1665-IN) for SDR 127.5 million were approved on March 20, 1986 and made
effective on October 2, 1987.
During the project period the loan was cancelled in its entirety and SDR 40.8 million
from the credit was diverted to finance the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction
Project (Credit 2179-IN). The credit was fully disbursed on August 24, 1994, about two months
after the original closing date of June 30, 1994.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
which visited India in July/August 1994. It was finalized by the Mr. J.R. Malhotra, Irrigation
Engineer and Task Manager, Agriculture Unit of the Resident Staff in India, and Ms. Teresita N.
Estoque, Operations Analyst, Agriculture and Water Operations Division, Country Department 2,
South Asia Regional Office, and reviewed by Mr. Theodore Herman, Senior Water Resources
Engineer, Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Division Chief, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor.
The Borrower contributed to the ICR by commenting on the mission's aide memoire and the draft
ICR, and by preparing its own evaluation, which are included as appendices to the report.
Preparation of the ICR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision mission in
May 1994. It is based on a review of materials in the project files, field investigation, and
discussions with project staff and officials of the State of Andhra Pradesh, and staff of the Bank
associated with the project.






.h
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662-IN/Credit 1665-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        Irrigation development in India has been given very high priority since the beginning
of the planning era in 1950. It is estimated that the increased production resulting from investment
in irrigation has accounted for at least three-quarters of agricultural growth since 1960. However,
production levels in much of the irrigated area, especially the area irrigated from surface sources, is
considerably lower than the potential for a number of reasons.
2.        Pre-independence irrigation systems were in many cases planned for famine relief;
they had limited or no storage and did not have sufficient water control structures. Later
development in the 1960s provided the main storage and diversion dams and main conveyance
system only, leaving the construction of the distribution system to farmers. This resulted in
considerable delays in utilization of the water and inefficiencies in water use.
3 .       In the 1970s the concept of the Command Area Development Authority (CADA)
evolved. CADA's main objectives were to coordinate the activities of the state Irrigation and
Agriculture Departments, and to assist farmers with credit and advice for the construction of the
minor systems and for land development. For a number of reasons, the CADA approach was not
entirely effective. Among these were the farmers' reluctance to invest in irrigation works when the
water supply was not reliable, and that no facility or framework for effective group action had
been developed in the irrigation sector. Experience indicated that more emphasis was required on
improving the efficiency and reliability of the conveyance system from the water source to the
irrigation outlets, and that government should assume greater responsibility for conveying water to
an outlet closer to the farm gate and to assist in construction of watercourses providing water to
individual fields and also to promote the development of effective farner involvement and support
for efficient group action and cooperation between irrigators. The indications were that when
farmers are fully confident of their water supply they will invest time and money in effective
irrigation at farm level.
4.        The major constraint to increased crop production in Andhra Pradesh has been limited
irrigation supplies. The State traditionally relied upon monsoon rainfed agriculture supplemented
by tank irrigation, an option that in most areas is now fully utilized. Further expansion of
agricultural production depended on the completion of surface water schemes, and above all on the
more efficient use of existing irrigation supplies. It was against the above background that the
Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project (Loan 2662/Credit 1665-IN) was designed and
implemented.
Project Objectives
5.        The project aimed to increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes by
bringing new and/or improved irrigation to two sub-project areas: (a) Srisailam Right Branch Canal
(SRBC) sub-project (65,000 ha), and (b) Sriramasagar (SRS) sub-project, Kakatiya Canal
Command (modernization of 165,000 ha above Lower Manair Dam (LMD) and new development



Hi
of 163,000 ha below LMD). Common to both of the sub-projects were the following: provision of
a feeder road network (1,152 km); irrigation water management development; equipment,
especially communications equipment; training of staff and farmers; continued rehabilitation and
provision of resettlement village amenities for oustees from existing reservoirs providing water for
the sub-projects; monitoring and evaluation, technical services, as well as provision for studies
and planning. The SRBC sub-project comprised construction of a main canal (about 143 km long
and with a minimum capacity of 750 cusecs (21 cumecs), including a major crossing structure
across a valley at Gorakallu), and the necessary irrigation distribution system. The essential feature
of the SRS sub-project was to improve the existing main canal and its distributaries (km 0-146);
extend it to km 284 and improve the irrigation infrastructure as described above.
6.        Loan and Credit Covenants. There were 33 legal covenants of which 13 had been
fulfilled by project closure (June 30, 1994). Twenty-two of the legal covenants were drafted to
promote achievement of the project objectives; of these eight had been complied with by project
closure (see Part II, Table 10).
7.        A Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) Program for oustees from dams built by
GOAP but to be used by this project had not been agreed at appraisal. Therefore, as a condition of
Loan/Credit effectiveness the project was required to submit to the Bank for approval the R&R
Program and related Action Plan in respect of these oustees. GOAP was delayed in furnishing
revised R&R Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank resulting in a 16-month delay in effectiveness to
October 2, 1987. The terms of this condition were waived and not transformed into a dated
covenant to enable the project to become effective. Thus a "rolling" Action Plan periodically
updated on the basis of changing targets and implementation progress was used, instead of a dated
Action Plan Covenant.
8.        Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were sensible and relatively
simple to achieve. There was a need to increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes. The
engineering works were straightforward and easy to construct. The "structured" irrigation design
used for the canalization was a new concept, but should not have provided many difficulties for an
efficiently organized irrigation department. The amount of irrigated development depended on
persuading farmers in the existing SRS command to change their cropping pattern and to be
economical in water usage; this was one of the major problems which caused delays in
implementing the project. Also, the preparation and implementation of a proper R&R program for
oustees from Srisailam and Lower Manair reservoirs was inadequate causing implementation
delays, but most of all, losing sight of the objective of income restoration of all the displaced
population and not only its below poverty line members.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.        Assessment of Project Success. Project benefits were expected to commence in
Year One from the improvements to the existing irrigated area. These failed to materialize. The
subsequent development of new irrigation areas also failed to materialize because of construction
delays and improper construction scheduling. The project failed to achieve any of its major
objectives and has not yielded, and is not expected to yield, worthwhile development results
without additional investment. The question of the project's sustainability is irrelevant because it
never reached the operational status.
10.       In the SRBC sub-project the main problems were caused by inadequate design and
resulting cost overruns stemming from under-estimating the amount of hard rock excavation
needed due to lack of adequate site investigation; providing canal lining in some places where it
was not required; poor performance of badly selected contractors; and superficial investigations of



iv
revised main canal alignments following the Bank's appraisal decision to omit Gorakallu reservoir
from the project.
11.       In the SRS sub-project similar problems occurred but were compounded GOAP's
decision to reduce water allocation amounts to those suited for non-rice crop cultivation only and
thus facilitate the planned extension of the command area. Non-acceptance of this policy by
farmers delayed remodelling of the existing irrigation works.
12.        Costs. Financing and Timetable. The project was to be financed by Loan 2662-IN of
US$131 million and Credit 1665-IN of SDR 127.5 million (US$140 million equivalent),
providing a total of US$271 million equivalent. The contribution of the Government of India
(GOI) and GOAP was estimated in the SAR to amount to US$204.7 million. The total estimated
cost of the project was thus US$475.7 million.
13.       Actual total project expenditure in Rupee terms as of June 30, 1994 was Rs.5,548.8
million, or 90 percent of the appraisal cost estimates of Rs.6,185 million. Actual expenditure was
Rs.2,218.4 for the SRS sub-project, including Rs.2,122.2 million for the construction works in
below the LMD sub-project and Rs.96.2 million for the pilot modernization works in above the
LMD sub-project, and Rs.3,330.4 million for the SRBC sub-project, or 74 percent and 104
percent respectively of the appraisal estimates of Rs.2,977 million for the SRS sub-project and
Rs.3,208 million for the SRBC sub-project. Due to the devaluation of the Indian Rupee against the
US dollar the actual total project expenditure in US dollar terms was only US$213 million, or 45
percent of the appraisal cost estimates of US$475.7 million.
14.       The project was to be implemented over a period of 7.5 years from the Loan/Credit
signing; irrigation development benefits were to commence in project Year One increasing each
year to a total area of 354,000 ha by project completion (the balance of 39,000 ha was to be
completed in the five years subsequent to completion). As already noted (para. 9) no irrigation
(either modernized or new) was provided by the project.
15.       Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Objectives. The main factors leading to the
highly unsatisfactory conclusion of this project were:
(a)    inadequate preparation of the project, in particular lack of designs in sufficient
detail for major structures to facilitate accurate estimation of costs, lack of a
realistic assessment of actual water resources available combined with a lack
of rigorous hydrological analysis with no simulation modelling, unrealistic
cost estimates due to cost estimating procedures being based on GOAP
guidelines, and unrealistic implementation scheduling;
(b)    an unsatisfactory appraisal, with several critical aspects of project design not
properly dealt with or disregarded (for example: inadequate field
investigation, supply reliability, lack of rigorous analysis relating to balancing
reservoirs, acceptance of imprecise cost estimates and implementation
schedules, lack of appreciation of the consequences of the water management
changes required, apparent failure to consider alternative approaches to
overall design of the project, and no appreciation of the possibilities created
by the many tanks in existence in the SRS sub-project area);
(c)    failure to plan thoroughly and appraise adequately R&R requirements leading
to formulation of annual Action Plans without the availability of properly
specified entitlement policy or implementation framework;



v
(d)    unsatisfactory performance of the initial contractors;
(e)    lack of a strong project coordinating organization;
(f)    lack of drive in the Irrigation and Command Area Development Department;
(g)    unrealistic belief that farmers would readily accept a new cropping pattern and
re-designation of their land based on reduced water allocations;
(h)    improper construction scheduling; and
(i)    imprecise water supply projections and delays and confrontation caused by
the Bank's queries about the adequacy of water allocation for the project.
16.       Performance of Bank and Borrower. Both parties under-performed at preparation and
appraisal, the Borrower continued to exhibit poor performance during implementation which only
gradually improved. Supervision by the Bank proved ineffective. Although the project
encountered serious implementation difficulties right from the early years of the project period, the
supervision missions failed to come to grips with the emerging implementation problems and offer
viable solutions to resolve them. Instead, much of the time was lost in quest.oning the adequacy of
water allocated for the SRBC sub-project and confronting the Borrower with threats of suspension
of disbursements. Strenuous efforts by the supervision missions in later years to retrieve the poor
situation caused by the planning and engineering inadequacies of project preparation and appraisal
did not generate the necessary response from the Borrower. The option of restructuring the project
was belatedly considered (mid-1992), and decided against. An early realization and a firm warning
by the Bank supervision missions that the project was failing could have led to a formal and timely
review to restructure the project, which could then have increased the chances of its success.
17.       Project Outcome Assessment. The project outcome is rated  as "Highly
Unsatisfactory".
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
1 8.      Findings. The most important finding of the project implementation experience is that
a thorough project preparation in the form of a feasibility study, field investigations and detailed
designs in conformity with Bank's standards followed by a stringent appraisal to ensure "quality-at-
entry" of the project proposals are essential prerequisites to provide implementation success, as
subsequent efforts through good supervision, even if strenuous, would not help fully resolve the
implementation problems emerging from unsound preparation and appraisal of the project. Also,
the lack of a commanding, motivated project coordinating organization, as in this case, would
definitely hinder the project achievements.
19.        Future Operations. There cannot be any consideration of future project operations and
sustainability in the context of this ICR, since the investments under the project have not generated
modernized or new irrigation. It is possible that further investment would enable some parts of the
project to become operational. To that end, and at the request of the Government, the Bank is
currently processing the proposed follow-up Third Andhra Pradesh project to complete the SRBC
sub-project and modernize the existing command area of the SRS sub-project.
20.        Lessons for Future Projects in this Sector. The main lessons for future projects in the
irrigation subsector learnt from the experience of this project are:



vi
(a)    the Bank should strictly enforce its own guidelines on the quality of project
preparation and appraisal;
(b)    at project appraisal, water supply availability and reliability must be
unambiguously established and command areas sized accordingly, and where
the project design is changed at appraisal (such as elimination of the
Gorakullu and Owk Reservoirs in this case), the appraisal should specifically
determine whether the capacity (and cost) of other facilities should be
reduced, or left unchanged to facilitate possible system expansion at a later
date;
(c)    detailed designs for major works based on adequate field surveys and sub-
surface investigations must be available, cost estimates should be realistic and
based on market prices, and introduction of new methods of system design
and management - such as structured irrigation networks (SIN) and rotational
water supply (RWS) - should be fully documented to ensure their
understanding and application by the Borrower;
(d)    appraisal missions should rigorously review the implementing organization's
ability to adequately control construction quality and to include in the project
appropriate remedial measures to ensure efficient operation and water
management;
(e)    particular attention should also be paid to establish viable institutional
arrangements for involvement of beneficiaries in participatory irrigation
management, and particularly where water delivery rights and allocation
arrangements are to be changed, an appropriate legal, regulatory and
administrative framework must be in place to implement the new system of
water allocation;
(f)    loan/credit effectiveness conditions should be strictly enforced (in this case
the submission of a satisfactory R&R Action Plan), and if such conditions are
are to be waived, they should be transformed into dated covenants;
(g)    procurement of work contracts should follow  a logical implementation
sequence to enable timely realization of benefits as planned and to permit any
adjustments needed if and when doubts about adequate water availability
occur;
(h)    as soon as clear symptoms of serious implementation difficulties are visible,
Bank supervision missions should come to grips with problems and propose
immediate viable solutions, even if they lead to strong action such as a
fundamental modification of the appraised project formulation and design;
(i)    project implementation success depends on establishment of viable
institutional arrangements for involvement of beneficiaries in participatory
irrigation management, and particularly where water delivery rights and
allocation arrangements are to be changed, an appropriate legal, regulatory
and administrative framework must be in place to implement the new system
of water allocation; and



vii
(j)    as soon as clear symptoms of serious implementation difficulties are visible,
Bank supervision missions should come to grips with problems and propose
immediate viable solutions, even if they lead to strong action such as a
fundamental modification of the appraised project formulation and design.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662-IN/Credit 1665-IN))
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.        The main objective of the project was to raise agricultural production and farm
incomes through the expansion of irrigated areas and the efficient utilization of available water
supplies in two sub-project areas located in the poorest drought-prone areas of Andhra Pradesh.
To achieve this objective, the project was to assist with the further development of the
Sriramasagar (SRS) scheme; initiate and complete the development of a greater part of the
Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC) scheme; and introduce improved design and operation
principles as pre-conditions to a reliable and equitable irrigation service. The project was to be
implemented over seven and a half years.
2.        The project components comprised:
(a)    Conveyance System Works for: (i) SRBC sub-project (construction of a 146
km long main canal); and (ii) SRS sub-project (upgrading and completion of
conveyance works in the Kakatiya Canal Command between km 0 to 146;
completion and new conveyance works in the Kakatiya Canal Command
between km 146-267; and excavation of a tail section of the Kakatiya Canal to
serve as an escape - km 267 to 284).
(b)    Components Common to both Sub-Projects: (i) block development of about
65,000 ha in the SRBC sub-project, modernization of 165,000 ha and new
development of 163,000 ha in the SRS sub-project; (ii) feeder road network;
(iii) water management including development of farmers participation; (iv)
equipment for project implementation, including telecommunications; (v)
provision of training facilities and training of professional and support staff
required for project implementation, and training of farmers; (vi)
rehabilitation of, and amenities for, oustees from the Srisailam and Manair
reservoir sites; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation, technical services and
provision for studies and planning.
3.         Only minor modifications were made to the project during implementation. These
involved a change in the approach to agricultural extension and some modification to the design of
the roads component.
4.         The objectives were clear and relatively simple to achieve, but physical targets and
implementation period were not all realistic. They lacked realism because they did not take note of
a critical assumption made as part of the objectives - an enforced change in the cropping pattern due
to reduced water allocation. Such a change had already been tried and found to have failed in the



2
same state and in an area adjacent to SRBC in a previous project]. The objectives were important
for the country and sector and complemented the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.          Within the six and three-quarter year period between the delayed credit effectiveness
and closing date, the project failed to achieve its implementation targets and any of its major
objectives. Whilst some major construction has been completed or in some cases partly
constructed for both sub-projects, the scheduling of construction was such that no contiguous
portion of new or rehabilitated canal or command area was completed. Thus no irrigation (either
modernized or new) was provided by the project (overall project physical progress on SRBC was
38 percent and on SRSP 21 percent as of June 1994).2
6.          A condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness was the submission by GOAP of a suitable
R&R Action Plan for oustees from the reservoir sites of the dams connected with the project.
These dams had earlier been constructed by GOAP with inadequate attention to the R&R needs of
oustees from submerged areas. After considerable delay in GOAP's submission of the R&R
Action Plan, and waiver by the Bank of the effectiveness condition, the Loan/Credit was declared
effective on October 2, 1987. This condition was not transformed into a dated covenant. The time-
bound Action Plan submitted by GOAP and approved by the Bank for implementation in 1988 was
further revised and incorporated into a new  Action Plan in 1991.  But still, the pace of
implementation of the R&R activities was very slow until 1992-93. Subsequently, however, the
implementation progress improved substantially and the R&R activities as envisaged under the
current Action Plan have been largely completed (Appendix B).3  Provision of feeder roads
amounted to 48 percent of the appraisal target at a cost of about Rs.377 million (72 percent of the
appraisal provision). A good deal of training of staff and farmers was well carried out (447
engineers, 4064 contact farmers and 3024 outlet committee chairmen4). Groundwater studies were
competently carried out during the years 1990-94 in both SRS and SRBC sub-project areas.
7.          Overall water management in SRS has not improved, no new agricultural extension
system has been established5, and although 900 outlet committees (OCs) were formed for the
existing irrigation area above Lower Manair Dam they have become defunct for lack of the
expected new micro-network and lack of leadership from the Irrigation and Command Area
Development Department (I&CADD). Despite their merger, institutional development in terms of
combining the Irrigation Department (ID) and the Command Area Development Department
(CADD) into an effective I&CADD was unsuccessful and, in fact, probably reduced the level of
performance and achievements these two departments were individually capable of before being
merged. This is because the immediate construction aspects remained a priority and dominating
1    Andhra Pradesh Composite Irrigation Project (Loan 125 1-IN), closed on June 30, 1985.
2    From "Borrower Contribution to the ICR", GOAP, June 30, 1994. It should be noted that the
borrower anticipates that, given sufficient funds and taking into account the increase in the rate of
construction over the project period, the project works could be completed by June 1997.
3    Subsequent preparation missions for a proposed follow-up Third Andhra Pradesh Irrigation project are
of the opinion that work still remains to be done to meet the objectives of the R&R
Component. The remainder R&R retrofit work will be financed under this proposed project.
4    By Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute (WALAMTARI).
5    The SAR (para. 5.13) envisaged the creation of special extension areas within the sub-projects. This
was cancelled halfway through implementation in agreement with the Bank.



3
influence, whilst the activities of the erstwhile Command Area Development Department were
short-funded and sidelined.
8.         Because of its failure to meet physical targets substantially under both the sub-
projects and respond to the aspirations of local population, the project created some demoralizing
impact on the overall macro-economic environment. Poverty reduction did not take place. There
also has been some adverse environmental effects due to the presence of partially completed and
unused excavations, in some of which stagnant water has accumulated and which impede
communications, particularly for the underpriviledged.
9.         Project Impact. Although the works are incomplete, the project impact has been
evaluated assuming that further funding will be available to complete the project works and taking
into consideration three distinct benefits: irrigation modernization in 165,000 ha in km 0-146 under
the SRS sub-project; and new irrigation in 163,000 ha in km 146-284 under SRS and in 65,000 ha
under the SRBC sub-project. At project completion in June 1994, benefits have not commenced
because construction works were only partially completed. With additional investments to
complete the on-going works, benefits are estimated to be generated from 1995 and full benefits
thereafter. Cropping patterns and yields of crops in present situation are based on farm surveys
conducted by the Department of Agriculture (DOA), while those in the "without project" (WOP)
and the "with project" (WP) situations are projected by DOA based on farm surveys and historical
productivity trends in the project areas. Cropping intensities are: (i) 148 percent in present, 151
percent in WOP, and 152 percent in WP situations in km 0-146; (ii) 109 percent in present, 114
percent in WOP and 149 percent in WP situations in km 146-284; and (iii) 103 percent in present,
107 percent in WOP and 163 percent in WP situation in SRBC. In the "with project" situation, the
increased production would come mainly from increases in cropping intensities in areas where new
irrigation would be introduced and significant shifts from low value crops (pulses, pigeon pea,
chick pea, coriander, tobacco, medium staple cotton, etc.) to higher value crops, including long
staple cotton, oilseeds, vegetables, mulberry, fruits, and some seed production, in both already
and new irrigated areas.
10.        Economic Rate of Return. The current economic rates of return (ERRs) re-estimated
at project completion are 16.1 percent for SRS, and 11 percent for SRBC, and 14.4 percent for
the combined two schemes (Appendix C, Tables 8-10), compared with the appraisal estimate of
23 percent, 20 percent and 22 percent, respectively. The lower ERRs are due mainly to longer
implementation period resulting in delayed accrual of project benefits, and cost overrun. The
recalculated ERRs are based on actual expenditures incurred up to Loan/Credit closing date plus
costs to complete works until FY99, and the updated projection of benefits.
11.        Sensitivity Analvsis. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out to consider the impact
of major risks, including delays in completing the on-going works and the resulting delayed
accrual of project benefits, and increased completion costs. The results of the sensitivity tests
show that ERRs are not sensitive to either delays/decreases in benefits or increases in completion
costs as summarized below:



4
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
SRS         SRBC        Combined
Two Schemes
Base Case                                      16.1          11.0         14.0
Completion Costs (+20%)                        15.7          10.3         13.9
Total Benefits (-20%)                          14.5          9.4          12.8
Total Benefits lagged 2 years                  14.2          9.6          12.7
Benefits lagged 2 years, completion costs (+20%)  13.7       9.1          12.1
12.        Farm Incomes. Farm income analysis has been re-estimated at completion on the
assumptions made at appraisal using the current and projected cropping patterns and crop budgets
in the WOP and WP situations and the prevailing 1994 prices of outputs and inputs (Appendix C,
Table 2). The project impact on farm incomes has, therefore, been analyzed for three representative
farms: 2.3 ha farms in already irrigated areas and newly irrigated areas in SRS and 3.6 ha in newly
irrigated areas in SRBC. Based on the above assumptions, the re-estimated incremental annual net
farm income at full development is Rs.25,930 and Rs.38,265 for 2.3 ha farms in already and
newly irrigated areas in SRS and Rs.97,220 for 3.6 ha farms in SRBC, reflecting real increases of
17 percent-55 percent over the appraisal estimates as summarized below:
Farm Incomes
Incremental Annual Net Farm Incomes
(Rupees)
Appraisal Estimate      ICR Estimate
1985 Prices       1994 Prices   1994 Prices
Already Irrigated Areas (2.3 ha) in SRS  10,340         22,130        25,930
Newly Irrigated Areas (2.3 ha) in SRS  11,550            24,720       38,265
Newly Irrigated Areas (3.6 ha) in SRBC    31,900         68,265       97,220
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
13.        Factors which have contributed to the failure of both the sub-projects and which can
be considered as not subject to Government control, but for which the Bank should share the
blame, are listed below:
(a)    lack of in-depth analysis at appraisal including:
(i) the critical project design assumption of reduced water allocation in SRS
that required farmers to change their cropping pattern (mainly away from
the socially-favored rice cultivation) in order to provide more equity of
water distribution to all;



5
(ii) failure to plan thoroughly and appraise adequately R&R requirements;
(iii) the assumption that the employment of consultants would handle the
problems of the innovative features of the projectl;
(iv) lack of appreciation of the difficulty and high cost of introducing
structured irrigation network design with rotational water supply (RWS)
scheduling concept into an existing irrigation area in comparison with
normal irrigation modernization;
(v) appraisal mission's disregard of comments and advice of Bank staff and
consultants, some of whom had been involved in preparation and
appraisal of the project2, regarding likely implementation problems;
(vi) the deletion of an on-line balancing reservoir (Gorakallu) from the
SRBC sub-project by the appraisal mission was not supported by a
study of the operating procedures of Srisailam reservoir in order to
ensure water supply reliability, nor was the design re-evaluated to
determine if canal capacities should be reduced or left unchanged to
accommodate system expansion at a later date; and
(vii) a total lack of appreciation of the importance of the tank and shallow
well irrigation systems prevalent in SRS sub-project area and the
weightage it should have as regards the concepts to be used for irrigation
development of the proposed command area3.
(b)     cancellation of the Bank loan of US$131 million at the request of GOI
(US$90 million in December 1991 and US$41 million in May 1993), in
both cases without consultation or reference to the Government of Andhra
Pradesh (GOAP). GOAP was not officially informed of these cancellations
Apart from the difficulty of integrating consultants' efforts in these aims, the SAR assumed that
GOAP would engage such consultants by December 31, 1986 (on the basis that the project would
become effective on January 1, 1986) and that "All consultants would be engaged in accordance with
Bank Guidelines". This was most optimistic.
2    The World Bank Office Memorandum on Project Brief for AP Irrigation II project (October 10, 1985)
and "Yellow Cover Report" critique (March 19, 1988) highlight the problems likely to occur based
on past experience of AP irrigation schemes, the memos are remarkable in that they predict many of
the problems which have adversely affected the project in practice. (It should be noted that the author
was a member of the appraisal team). Additionally a World Bank Office memorandum "Comments
on Yellow Cover SAR" (October 11, 1985) strongly queries water availability, removal of re-
regulating reservoirs, inter-action between irrigation and power generation, and most importantly the
acceptance of the concept of RWS by AP Irrigation Department. Lastly, "Consultants Report on
Visits to Sriramasagar and Srisailam Projects in Andhra Pradesh", India (February 1984) advised that
parts of the project would take 10 years to complete, not 5 as estimated by GOAP nor 7.5 as
estimated by SAR, and that a potential water-logging situation existed.
3    This resulted in a system design which did not include tanks and which makes the future integration
of all water resources in the area (surface supplies, tanks and groundwater wells) extremely difficult to
conceptualize and design.



6
until several months after the eventl. As the loan was cancelled in two
tranches, it is evident that the main reason for the cancellations was the low
rate of disbursement under Credit 1665-IN and savings generated due to the
devaluation of the Rupee. However, the cancellation of the loan effectively
prevented any consideration of project restructuring with an extension of the
project implementation period.
(c)     questioning by Bank superivision missions of water availability for SRS sub-
project based on water allocations and witholding of disbursements on some
contracts, rather than insisting on a rigorous analysis of what amount of
water would be required, say, per month or fortnight build up of demand as
irrigation development proceeded, and its relation to actual water available2.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
14.         The main factor subject to Government control which adversely affected project
implementation was GOAP's weakness in: (a) responding adequately to Bank preparation/appraisal
missions for satisfactory resolution of major issues of its apparent concern, such as the project's
assumption that required farmers to change their cropping patterns, and the difficulties of
introducing structured irrigation network design with RWS concept into an existing irrigation area,
and its consequent lack of commitment and diligence during the early years of the project's
implementation period; (b) unduly delaying the preparation and implementation of a satisfactory
R&R program for oustees from the reservoir sites of the dams connected with the project; and (c)
allowing the implementing agency to be dilatory in dealing with contract award procedures which
affected all stages of employing contractors, from obtaining tenders, through adjudication, to
award. The procedure often occupied an unacceptable period of time from six to twelve months.
Another contributing factor was the failure of the Government of India (GOI) to consult and inform
GOAP in time about the cancellations of the Bank loan [para. 13 (b)].
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
15.         General reasons which led to the disappointing performance of the project and which
could be considered subject to GOAP's/implementing agency's control, were caused by a
combination of factors as discussed below:
(a)     inadequate preparation of the project with:
-   over-optimistic rates of progress projected; over-optimism and lack of
clarity about water resource reliability estimates;
-   an absence of integration of the irrigation design caused by a lack of
perception that physical design of the project should flow from the
expected operational aspects of the completed project. To some extent
this is believed to be the result of lack of communication and integration
4    Not informing GOAP resulted in Bank staff visiting the project and discussing further disbursement
plans with GOAP staff, when they knew that relevant funds had been cancelled.
2    There is no indication either in the SAR or during supervision of a rigorous analysis of water demand
and its relation to water availability being carried out. Discussion and modelling always centered
around the amount of water allocated to the sub-project. In fact a detailed analysis of Krishna River
availability was carried out by a Bank consultant in 1984 and listed in the Project File.



7
between the Irrigation Department and the Command Area Development
Departmentl;
- lack of adequate preparation and design of the roads component; and
- inaccurate cost estimates.
(b)     lack of experience and urgency in implementation:
-   delay in meeting resettlement and rehabilitation conditionality issues;
-   lack of communication between construction and operation/ maintenance
sections of I&CADD impeding on-farm development (OFD) and
planned operation of existing canal network at SRS sub-project;
-   attempts to unofficially vary the physical design of the project by
inserting components relating to Gorakallu and Owk reservoirs into
canal contract packages - this was noticed by the Bank and resulted in
delay whilst packages were re-tendered for the correct components and
also led to a lack of trust between Bank and Borrower;
-   inadequacy of contractor pre-qualification procedures, employment of
under-capitalized and inexperienced contractors, subsequent
unsuccessful attempts to improve contractor performance, consequent
cancellation of contracts and litigation before replacement contracts could
be awarded to more reliable contractors, and all these leading to long
delays in implementation and affecting seriously the proper scheduling
of construction2;
(c)     the inability to learn from experience in past projects3, such as difficulties
with and cancellation of the CADD (micro network) component in the
composite project, the likely difficulty in changing cropping patterns against
the wishes of the farmers, and staffing problems in the SRS sub-project.
16.         Cost Changes. Delays were caused in the award of contracts because tenders were
much higher (40 to 120 percent) than the implementing agency's estimates. This was caused by
three factors: firstly, government type cost schedule estimating using low rates; secondly, not
being allowed to include all the items required in a Bank contract (items such as insurance, major
1    See SAR paragraph 5.08, GOAP were to formalize the merger of the Irrigation Department and
Command Area Development Department by April 1, 1986. Thus fairly soon after such a merger
the new organization was being asked to rapidly carry out a project of magnitude and, at minor canal
and watercourse level, requiring considerable rural and social engineering.
2    This was an area in which the Bank should have been able to help from commencement; in fact early
Bank assistance in this subject with the provision of typical pre-qualification documents used in
another state appears to have caused more problems than it solved. The Bank has to share the blame
for contract tendering/adjudication problems since all procurement activities were cleared by the Bank
from pre-qualification to contract signature stages.
3    Pochampad Project (closed December 1979), AP Irrigation and CAD Composite Irrigation Project
(closed June 1985).



8
access arrangements, realistic profits, are not features of a GOAP cost schedule estimate); and
thirdly, no allowance being made in the original estimates for the additional costs involved in
constructing a "structured irrigation network system".
17.        Implementation Delays. The appraisal mission estimated that the project would be
completed in seven and a half years. In fact about 30 percent of the project's physical works were
complete at credit closure. The apparent delays in implementation were due to:
(a)    unrealistic implementation schedule;
(b)    inadequate contractor pre-qualification procedures and initial appointment of
inefficient and litigious contractors;
(c)    lack of drive by the implementing agency both directly and in slow
appointment of consultants;
(d)    procedures for agreement of contract packages between GOAP, GOI and the
Bank taking longer than expected partly due to the number of packages and
to some extent caused by queries on some packages containing items (Owk
reservoir etc) which were not in the agreed works and/or not correctly
described;
(e)    shortage of senior staff at the beginning of the project and a continuing
shortage and rapid turn-over of staff;
(f)    delay in clearance of local and international competitive (LCB and ICB)
procurement (became satisfactory May, 1989);
(g)    shortage of local funds (first year only);
(h)    lack of detailed design and accurate cost estimates at commencement;
(i)    inordinate delay in appointing consultants for the Gorakallu By-Pass
structure (consultancy awarded February, 19901) (this by-pass was the key
to conveying irrigation water to the fields in SRBC);
(j)    delays in obtaining land acquisition and clearance, particularly for forest
lands;
(k)    shortage of good field vehicles, and use of unreliable vehicles at
commencement which affected survey, investigation, and supervision;
(1)    lack of communication between Irrigation Department and the Command
Area Development Department (integrated into one unit in 1986 at the
suggestion of the Bank);
This consultancy was discussed in detail between GOAP and the Bank between June 1986 until it
was cleared by the Bank in November, 1988. It took GOAP 15 months to draw up revised TOR for
the consultants (March 1987 to August 1988); recruiting consultants after clearance took another 14
months.



9
(m)    great delays in authorization of road construction (eventually authorized
about October 1990, but construction not commenced until May 1991); and
(n)    the apparent lack of a strong coordinating project organization.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
18.        The question of the project's sustainability without additional funding to complete the
works is irrelevant because the project never reached operational status. In the new extension areas
below Lower Manair Dam (LMD) and in SRBC, the civil works are incomplete and inoperable
due to carrying out distribution network contracts in a haphazard manner. The existing irrigation
area above LMD sub-project which was to be rehabilitated has been left virtually untouched, and
the existing standard of maintenance and operation of this area provides a dire warning about the
likely sustainability of the project had it reached operational status.  In SRBC, the major
conveyance system is yet to be completed, and only a minor part of distribution works are under
construction. Without further funding, for which GOAP has approached the Bank and a follow-on
operation is being processed, the physical works established or under construction in the two sub-
project areas will gradually erode and become forgotten.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
19.        Identification. The project concept was good and consistent with the government's
development strategy and priorities, and the Bank's development strategy for India. However, the
Bank identification mission failed to flag major issues that would require satisfactory resolution in
the course of further processing of the project. Also, during identification process, not enough
attention had been given to review the institutional capacities of the Irrigation Department and the
Command Area Development Department so that the weaknesses in their capabilities critical to the
project could be properly addressed. In addition, the existence of a large number of irrigation
tanks in SRS sub-project area seemed to have been ignored and, as a consequence, the question of
the need for their incorporation with groundwater and the proposed canal system under SRS sub-
project did not receive the required attention.
20.        Assisting Borrower with Project Preparation. The Bank's performance in assisting
with normal aspects of preparation was less successful than usual; the main deficiency was the lack
of stringency in not requiring a feasibility study with field and site investigations to international
standards, and not ensuring that all major structures were designed in sufficient detail for accurate
costing at this stage. In addition the preparation mission did not ensure that the implications of the
innovative features of the project (structured irrigation network and rotational water supply) were
fully appreciated by the Borrower both in terms of the localization issue, kharif (monsoon) rainfall
and also integration with the irrigation tanks in existence in SRS area. The Bank also failed to
stress the absolute need for a clear analysis of the water availability situation, and, allied with this,
the need for a digital model for systems operation to check the availability of water by irrigation
period. The standard of Bank staffing (both staff members and consultants) were technically good,
but there had been a lack of follow through once an issue had been noted. The more mundane
requirements, such as the need for accurate cost estimation, were also not given due attention.
21.        Bank Performance in Project Appraisal. This was disappointing and several critical
aspects of the project design were not satisfactorily dealt with as discussed below:
-      Operational: The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not insist on detailed
field investigation/designs and bid document preparation prior to submission
of the project to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.



10
Resettlement and Rehabilitation: Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R)
Action Plan for oustees from dams built by GOAP but to be used by this
project had not  been agreed at appraisal as required by the Bank's relevant
Operational Directive (see Part IVTable 11). No policy of compensation and
economic rehabilitation entitlement was agreed a priori to form the basis of a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Implementation of R&R was based on
annual rolling programs of construction of resettlement village infrastructure
and provision of income-generating schemes under GOAP poverty
alleviation programs. While clear targets were set for infrastructure, income-
generating schemes were not related to a target population of eligible project
affected families.  Despite the displacement of 43,979 families, the
economic rehabilitation program was confined to 24,126 below poverty line
families only. Thus the R&R program did not satisfy the basic tenet of
income restoration for all project affected families. While providing for
retroactive actions to redress the impacts of land acquisition for project-
related reservoirs constructed by GOAP earlier, the SAR did not include
provisions to mitigate the impact of land acquisition for canals and roads.
The SAR in fact stated that these structures would not have an adverse
impact.
Water Rights: The SAR required farmers operating in an existing irrigation
area to change their cropping pattern (mainly away from the socially-favored
rice crop) by accepting less irrigation water in order to provide more equity
of water distribution to all. However, the fact that many of the farmers had a
legal entitlement to grow rice seemed to have been ignored, and subsequent
negotiations and legislation to change the cropping pattern took a long time1.
Technical: The Bank failed at appraisal to insist on a detailed review of the
surface and groundwater resources and to ensure a comparison of the same
with the irrigation demand for both the sub-projects. The implications of all
that was involved in structured irrigation networks (SIN) and rotational
water supply was discussed with the Borrower and a short seminar held for
design engineers. However it was not written up in the SAR nor was a
written description made available to the project engineers. Bank staff were
not only advising the use of this method but were the actual technicians who
codified the structured network approach; this was an ideal opportunity to
cover the subject comprehensively to ensure understanding. In fact the
difficulty of using the SIN approach in a high monsoon rainfall area (SRS)
seemed to have been minimized. Similarly, the difficulty of implementing a
surface irrigation scheme in SRS sub-project area, with its vast number of
This was not a new problem, the PCR for the AP Composite Irrigation Project(Loan 1251-IN), May
29, 1989, states "In the cropping patterns assumed in the SAR, the NSP future with project patterns
contained much reduced "Irrigated Wet" (IW - rice or sugar cane) in favour of enhanced "Irrigated Dry"
(ID - crops other than rice and sugar cane). On these were based future economic projections and the
savings in water which would permit the extension areas to be supplied. It was assumed that GOAP
would induce the farmers already growing excessive paddy to convert to the new patterns by
persuasion and water rotation means. Regrettably this has not occurred, with GOAP taking no steps
to correct the situation".



11
tanks and with their impact on SIN design, was either not noticed or
ignored. The roads component was very briefly and incompletely designed.
Technical advice on perceived difficulties of the project design were not
heeded and the conflict between dam operation for power and for irrigation
was not highlightedl.
Finance and Economics: Costs (Part II, Table 8A) were grossly under-
estimated; sensitivity analysis did not examine all major risks. The financial
package was appropriate for the costs estimated at the time of appraisal. Had
the project been fully implemented there would have been a major shortfall in
funding (50 percent possibly); in view of the slowness of disbursement this
was not a problem.
Institutional: The ability of the existing institution to deal with items such as
project coordination, [CB, LCB, and hiring of consultants in a rapid and
efficient way was over-estimated.
Commitment: The SAR did not comment directly about this issue. However
it is apparent that the project beneficiaries were not consulted. GOAP and
the Irrigation Department were very much in favor of the project.
Incentives for Sustainability:  The SAR attempted to provide this by
persuading GOAP to integrate the ID and the CADD. This integration have
not been a success (see para. 7).
Project Design and Complexity: The project was not complex - basically the
construction of canals from existing dams was designed to flow water onto
the fields. There were, however, complexities within this concept which
are discussed above under "Technical" issues.
Project Risks and Key Variables:  Risks anticipated and examined at
appraisal did include the possibility of delay in construction, but not to the
extent that had occurred. This was probably a reasonable approach at the
time of designing the project. However a risk that was heavily discounted in
the SAR - the enforcement of water allocation and management - proved to
be a major factor in delaying the project and in not obtaining the anticipated
early benefits. This risk was discounted on the basis of "experience found in
the AP I project". The actual experience was otherwise as documented in the
PCR for AP I Project, which closed on June 30, 19852. Whilst the risk
analysis looked at the effect on the economic analysis both by switching
values and by looking at individual risk factors, the combination of two or
more of the risk factors occurring was not analyzed even though some of the
risks were clearly linked.
1    The SAR examined the cost of power foregone in the economic calculations but nowhere was the
effect of power "winning" control of water considered; in fact recent dam operation has indicated that
dams are being operated with priority for power and that there is no firm operating agreement for
avoiding operational conflict.
2    See also World Bank Office Memorandum dated February 14, 1985, subject "Comments on Project
Brief", page 5, para. 30. This section comments upon the difficulty (in AP I) of changing the
principles of "localisation" of crops and of persuading farners to change their cropping pattern.



12
-      Appraisal Team Composition: The team's composition was reasonable but
could have benefitted from the full time attention of a water resources
planner] - including such a specialist would have probably highlighted the
potential problems of water availability and problems with water allocations
and management. Whilst the section on design criteria and water
management were contributed by such an engineer, he was not a full time
member of the appraisal team, and as such probably had only limited time at
his disposal2. The inclusion of a sociologist might have provided a better
perspective on farmers' reactions to changed cropping patterns.
22.        Bank Performance in Supervision. Thirteen supervision missions were mounted
over a period of 6.5 years. This is slightly above the usual average for a project of this nature and
indicates the emphasis placed on supervision and the need of this project to be closely supervised.
The composition of the supervision missions showed a marked bias towards engineers, and this
was probably accounted for by the large engineering component and the need, under the terms of
the agreement, to check and review many engineering designs and contracts.
23.        Supervision by the Bank proved ineffective. Although the project encountered
serious implementation difficulties right from the early years of the project period, the supervision
missions failed to come to grips with the emerging problems and offer timely and viable solutions
to resolve them. For instance, whilst it was fairly obvious from the fourth supervision mission
(September 1989) onwards that project implementation was very slow and faced major problems,
it was not until April 1991 that it was decided to use strong measures to improve implementation
performance or cease disbursing on the project. The April 1991 supervision mission also
identified major project design deficiencies that had not been addressed prior to appraisal.
Supervision missions could have also been tougher in not allowing GOAP to prevaricate on R&R
issues and delay the implementation of the R&R program. These missions did not insist on
relating provision of income-generating schemes to the target population of Project Affected
Families prior to clearance of annual R&R programs. The Bank and the Borrower were in dispute
over several issues largely arising from the inadequacies of the project design and the attempts to
remedy the situation during implementation appeared to have caused friction, as these questioned
basic concepts and agreements written into the SAR and the credit/loan agreement. Although it
was clear that major difficulties stemmed from the estimation of water availability, there appeared
to have been no attempts to work out the actual water requirements of the sub-project commanded
areas on a monthly or fortnightly basis. Instead, much of the time was lost in questioning the
amount and adequacy of water allocated to the sub-projects and that too, on an annual basis, and
confronting the Borrower with the threats of disbursements. Strenuous efforts by the supervision
missions in later years to retrieve the situation caused by the inadequacies of project preparation
and appraisal did not generate the necessary response from the Borrower. The option of
restructuring the project was belatedly considered (mid-1992) and decided against. Clearly, an
early realization and a firm warning by the supervision missions that the project was failing could
have led to a formal and timely review to restructure the project which could then have increased
the chances of its success.
1   Who could have replaced one of the three irrigation engineers on the mission.
2    SAR states that this engineer "contributed to sections on design criteria and water management".



13
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.        Preparation. The Borrower should have known that the costs of the project were
generally under-estimated because of the use of out-of-date unit cost estimation procedures and the
dearth of subsurface investigations, that there would be a major water allocation/management
problem, and probably also a water resource problem. These problems could have been
highlighted for a detailed review in the interest of improving project design and facilitating
subsequent implementation. On the other hand, they seemed to have been underplayed perhaps to
ensure that the required Bank loan/credit was obtained. However, only one of these problems
caused the initial delays in implementation - the change in cropping pattern/water allocation
problem. Based on experience under AP Irrigation I project, GOAP could have foreseen the
difficulties that would be encountered and emphasized the need for beneficiary consultation and
involvement. At the time of preparation the Bank was already discussing with the Borrower SIN
and RWS, but it is likely that the Borrower did not realize the demands of these systems on design,
the additional costs or the impact on water allocations.
25.        Implementation.  The Borrower's performance during implementation was
"deficient", although it considerably improved towards the end of the project period. A number of
quite normal reasons contributed to the implementation delays: shortage/rapid turnover of staff,
delays in paperwork connected with ICB and LCB procurement, shortage of local funds, delay in
completing designs, delay in appointing consultants, delay in land acquisition, shortage of good
field vehicles, internal problems in I&CADD, delays in road design and construction, and initial
flaws in construction supervision. However, there were some much more decisive reasons that
caused the poor implementation rate. These were:
(a)        poor preparation of the project resulting in flawed project design and a
project impossible to implement within the chosen time-frame;
(b)        the lack of a strong project coordinating organization including lack of
implementation planning ability, leading to problems in scheduling
construction packages;
(c)        initial appointment of unsuitable contractors; and
(d)        water allocation/management problem;
At a later stage two more problems were indirect causes of delay:
(a)        Bank's query of the reliability of the water resource and wish to evaluate
this before approving designs/contract packagesl; and
(b)        a lack of appreciation of the demands of SIN and RWS.
1   The problem with this approach by the Bank was that the GOAP had provided an assurance at
appraisal/negotiations that the required quantity of water would be made available; GOAP thought
that it was unfair to raise the water reliability issue during implementation when the assurance had
already been accepted.



14
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.         The project's outcome is assessed as Highly Unsatisfactory because the project failed
to achieve any of its major objectives and has not yielded, and is not expected to yield, worthwhile
development resultswithout further investment.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
27.         The primary lesson to be learnt is that a project will not succeed unless it is well
prepared and appraised. Other lessons are sub-sets to the primary lesson. These sub-sets are:
(a)    the Bank should strictly enforce its own guidelines on the quality of project
preparation and appraisal;
(b)    at project appraisal, water supply availability and reliability must be
unambiguously established and command areas sized accordingly, and
where the project design is changed', the appraisal should specifically
determine whether the capacity (and cost) of other facilities should be
reduced, or left unchanged to facilitate possible system expansion at a later
date;
(c)    detailed designs for major works must be available at appraisal and should be
based on consideration of cost-effective design alternatives and adequate
field surveys and sub-surface investigations;
(d)     appraisal cost estimates should be realistic and based on market prices
prevailing in the contracting industry2;
(e)    procurement of works contracts must follow  a logical implementation
sequence to enable timely realization of benefits as planned, and to permit
any adjustments needed if and when doubts about adequate water availability
occur3;
(f)    introduction of new methods of system  design and water management
procedures - such as structured irrigation networks and rotational water
supply - must be fully understood and documented at appraisal to ensure
their understanding, acceptance and application by the Borrower;
(g)    the appraisal missions must rigorously review, for inclusion of appropriate
remedial measures, the implementing organization's ability to adequately
control construction quality and ensure efficient operation and water
management;
(h)    loan/credit effectiveness conditions should be strictly enforced (in this case
the submission of a satisfactory R&R Action Plan), and if such conditions
are to be waived, they should be transformed into dated covenants;
I     Such as elimination of the Gorakullu and Owk balancing reservoirs in this case.
2      Tenders received proved to be 40 to 120 percent above Government estimates.
3     This should have included concentrating on modernizing the existing SRS irrigation
network at commencement of project implementation.



15
(i)    project implementation success depends on establishment of viable
institutional arrangements for involvement of beneficiaries in participatory
irrigation management, and particularly where water delivery rights and
allocation arrangements are to be changed, an appropriate legal, regulatory
and administrative framework must be in place to implement the new system
of water allocation; and
(j)    as soon as clear symptoms of serious implementation difficulties are visible,
Bank supervision missions should come to grips with problems and propose
immediate viable solutions, even if they lead to strong action such as a
fundamental modification of the appraised project formulation and design.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
28.        The Bank has agreed, in discussion with GOI and GOAP (November 1993), to
consider providing further assistance to complete the project, or that part found, on re-examination
and restructuring, to be viable. It is apparent, with hind sight, that firm control of the Bank's role
in the project might have resulted in an earlier decision to re-plan the project. At present the
process of the project re-design and re-structuring to facilitate early completion of processing of the
proposed Third Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project is taking place with a much better spirit of
cooperation between GOAP and the Bank than was hitherto the case. The preparation of the
proposed follow-on project has addressed the deficiencies inherent in the appraisal and
implementation described in this ICR. A rigorous appraisal of the proposed project has been
completed with the following improvements:
(a)    the water availability of SRBC has been ascertained by the results of a
detailed simulation study of all existing and proposed projects in the Krishna
River Basin, while in the case of the SRS sub-project, a simulation study
found that its extension begun under the previous project was not viable, and
therefore will not be supported under the follow-on project;
(b)    sub-surface investigations were conducted to determine design criteria for
canal lining where expansive clay soils are prevalent, and design alternatives
were evaluated for the capacity of major structures;
(c)    all cost estimates have been updated to reflect current market prices prevalent
in the contracting industry;
(d)    a logical procurement sequence has been mandated, and in the case of the
SRS sub-project, approval of bid documents has been made subject to
beneficiary consultation regarding canal closure schedules during
implementation and agreement to proposed system design changes;
(e)    the proposed canal operation and water allocation policies are subject to
confirmation by public and beneficiary consultaltion prior to project
Negotiations;
(f)    a pilot program to test participatory irrigation management by establishment
of Water Users Associations has been undertaken and its results will be
incorporated in the program for establishment of Water Users Associations
in both the SRBC and SRS sub-projects;



16
(g)    the Command Area Development Authority is being reorganized to facilitate
improved water management and project maintenance for all projects in the
state, and a program of improved construction quality assurance and staff
training has been established for supervision of project works;
(h)    a project R&R policy satisfactory to the Bank has been agreed and has been
applied in the preparation of a R&R Action Plan for rehabilitation of persons
affected by canal and road construction in each sub-project, and a Retrofit
Action Program has been prepared to address the deficiencies of the previous
project's R&R program; and
(i)    arrangements have been made to implement a program of irrigation water
charges and O&M funding increases.



17
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives       Substantial    Partial    Neelicible  Not Apnlicable
()           W)          W)           W)
Macro policies                    E                        [1I          ElO
Sector policies                   E                         7            m7
Fmancial tbjectives               E             O                       El1
Institutional development         E             Ol O                
Physical objectives                O                       El           El
Poverty reduction                 E            El                       El
Gender issues                     E            E           El
Other social objectives           E                        El           El
Environmental objectives          E                        E            El
Public sector management          E            E                        El
Private sector development        E            E                        El
Other (specify)                   E            E           E            E
B. Proiect sustainabilifv'/        Likely      Unlikel]    Uncertain
(1)          (.)         (1)
HifghlY
C. Bank nerformance             satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Deficient
W)           V)          V)
Identification                    E                        El
Preparation assistance            E            El
Appraisal                         E            El
Supervision                       E            El
1/ The project did not reach operational status.



18
Hinhly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
V)           V)           /)
Preparation                                                 I E  -I'
Implementation                       l          Z             O
Covenant compliance                El           El             l
Operation (if applicable)           al          El          Fl
Hiph                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactorv
(I )                        v/)
Li E                       El 0 



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose               Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Pochampad Irrigation   To complete Pochampad dam             1971         Closed in
(Cr. No. 268-IN)      and develop part of the                              December 1979.
command area of the Pochampad
Project (now named the
Sriramasagar Project).
2. Godvari Barrage      Construction of modern barrage          1976         Closed in June
(Cr. No. 532-IN)      to replace very old weir to enable                   1981.
diversion of irrigation water to
the distribution system in the
Godvari estuary delta to continue
functioning.
3. A.P. Irrigation and  To accelerate the construction of       1976         Closed in June
CAD Composite         the distribution canal network to                    1985.
(AP I Project)        make use of the water
(Ln. No. 1251- IN)    impounded in Nagar Juna Sagar
Reservoir including the field
channel network beyond minor
canal outlet down to farm level.
Following operations
1. A. P. Cyclone        Reconstruction and rehabilitation       1990         Closed by June 30,
Emergency             of infrastructure damaged by the                     1994.
Reconstruction Project  cyclone of May 1990.
(APCERP)
(Cr. No. 2179-IN and
Ln. No. 3260-IN)
2. National Water       To increase productivity and            1987         On-going project
Management            farm incomes in existing                             (original closing
Programme             irrigation schemes by means of a                     date was March
(Cr. No. 1770-IN)     more reliable, predictable and                       1994 but this has
equitable irrigation service.                       been extended to
March 1995).



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
1                    |        Date actual/
Step_ in project cycle                Date planned            latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            September, 1984
Preparation                                                           February, 1985
Appraisal                                                             March/April, 1985
Negotiations                                                          January 7 - 15, 1986
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                    March 20, 1986
Signing                                                               May 28, 1986
Effectiveness                                   June 28, 1987         October 2, 1987
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) t-anche release (if applicable)                   _-
Project completion                              December 31, 1993    June 30, 1994
Credit closing                                                        October 31, 1994
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
FY87    FY88   FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94
Estimated                      3.1    16.4    33.3    55.3    77.1    97.5   114.0  127.5
Actual                         0.0     0.0      4.0      7.8    15.8    36.2    61.2   86.7
Actual as % of estimate        0       0       12       14      20       37       54     68
Date of final disburs-ment         July 30, 1994
Comments:
Of the total credit amount, SDR 40.8 million were diverted in August 1990 for the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone
Emergency Reconstruction Project (Cr. 2179-IN and Ln. 3260-IN). Further, the total loan amount of USS131.0
million was cancelled in May 1991 (US$90 million) and in June 1993 (US$41 million).



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(a) Srisailam Sub-Project
Key operating indicators in SAR                 Unit              SAR            Actual
A. Survey & Investigation                      Lump Sum(RsM)           30              4.8
B. Land Acquisition & Relocation               Lump Sum(RsM)           90             177.97
C. Main Canal (km 0 to 141)
1. Main (Branch) Canal (km 0 to 53.5)
Earthworks                                       km               35.5           41.79
Lining                                           km               50.5                      l
Structures                                       km               50.5           11.56
Gorakallu Aqueduct                               km               3.2
2. Main Canal (km 53.5 to 113)
Earthworks                                       km               59.5           22.51
Lining                                           km               59.5            3.81
Structures                                       km               59.5            7.60
3. Main canal (km 113 to 141)
Earthworks                                       km                40             20.6
Lining                                           km                40            12.11
Structures                                       km                40              25
D. Block Development (65,000 ha)
1. Block 1 - 10 (41,000 ha)
Earthwork                                      1000ha              41              0
Lining                                         1000ha              41              0
Structure                                      1000ha              41              0
Roads (4 m/ha)                                   km               164              0
OFD Works                                      1000ha              41              0
Drainage                                       1000ha              41              0
2. Block 11 - 16 (24,200 ha)
Earthwork                                      1000ha              24              0
Lining                                         1000ha              24              0
Structure                                      1000ha              24              0
Roads (4 m/ha)                                   km                96              0
OFD Works                                      1000ha              24              0
Drainage                                       1000ha              24              0
E. Other Investments
1. Buildings                                 Lump Sum             26.6            ND
2. O&M, Training & M&E Equipment             Lump Sum             17.6            ND
3. Communication Equipment                   Lump Sum             10.6             0



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(b) Sriramasagar Sub-project
Key operating iadicators in SAR                Unit              SAR            Actual
A. Survey & Investigation                     Lump Sum(RsM)           113               -
B. Land Acquisition & Relocation              Lump Sum(RsM)           54.2            165
C. Sriramasagar Main Canal (km 0 to 284)
1. Kakatiya Main Canal (km 0 to 146)
Raising Bunds & Upgrading Lining                km               146             1085
Construction of Cross-regulators                km                3
2. Kakatiya Main Canal (km 146 to 250)
Earthworks
Lining                                          km                 -              13
Structures                                      km                102            9.52
km               102             2~
3. Kakatiya Ma;n canal (km 250 to 284)
Earthworks                                      km                16              16
Lining                                          km                18               -
Structures                                      km                34              14
D. Distributaries, Minors, OFD (km 0 -268)
1. Kakatiya (km 0 - 146), Improvement.
Canals                                         1000ha            165            ND3
Control Devices                                1000ha            165               0
Measurement Devices                            1000ha            165               0
Roads (m/ha for 50% of area)                    km               165              ND
Drainage                                       1000ha            165               0
2. Kakatiya (km 146 - 234), Completion.
Earthwork                                      1000ha             88             ND'
Lining (down to 1 cu m/sec)                    1000ha             88              ND
Structure                                      1000ha             78              ND
Roads (4 m/ha)                                  km               352              ND
OFD Works                                      1000ha             88              ND
Drainage                                       1000ha             96              ND
1/ 2 cross-regulators partly completed
2/26 structures partly completed
3/ Some work done on Block VIII but not possible to express as km work done.
4/As for footnote 3 in all these items.



23
Key operating indicators in SAR               Unit             SAR            Actual
2. Kakatiya (km 234 - 268), New Distys.
Earthwork                                    1000ha             75            NDI
Lining (down to 1 cu m/sec)                  1000ha             75             ND
Structure                                    1000ha             75             ND
Roads (4 m/ha)                                 km               375            ND
OFD Works                                    1000ha             75             ND
Drainage                                     1000ha             75             ND
E. Other Investments
1. Buildings                               Lump Sum            28.9            0.85
2. O&M, Training & M&E Equipment           Lump Sum            17.3            ND
3. Communication Equipment                 Lump Sum            11.5             0
D. Supporting Investments
1. Training                                Lump Sum            29.5            ND
2. Monitoring & Evaluation                 Lump Sum            21.5            ND
3. Agricultural Extension                  Lump Sum              0             ND
4. Agricultural Research                   Lump Sum             0              ND
5. Rehabilitation Programme:
-Infrastructure                          Lump Sum             7              ND
-Training                                Lump Sum             4.8            ND
-Surveys & Monitoring                    Lump Sum             0.2            ND
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Thlis table is not applicable to thzis project.
1,As for footnote 3 in all these items.



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as dcfined
Study               at appraisal/redefined            Status           Impact of study
1. O&M procedures       A.P to carry out a study to   Partly completed; O&M    Has increased
(Covenant 3.06(a))      review GOAP's current         charges were increased    the O&M
procedures and financial      from 75 to 100 Rs/ha to  charges.
requirements for O&M of both   meet the increase in
sub-projects under terms      maintenance and
satisfactory to the association    establishment charges,
but no real study of
"procedures' appears to
have been carried out.
2. Bench Mark Survey    To record pre-project socio-  Studies completed.       Impact not
(SAR para 5.25)         economic conditions in the                             assessed since
area in order to be able to                            main project
measure changes of such                                objectives not
conditions as a result of the                          achieved.
impact of the project
3. Long range           To identify the priorities for  Not completed.         None.
investment options study  future irrigation development
for irrigation in AP    in the state
(SAR para 3.21)
4. Systems operation    Monitoring of the irrigation  Not done, it is doubtful   Not possible to
(SAR 5.25(i))           system for timeliness and for    if this could be classed  monitor an
losses.                       as a study but was so   inoperable
classed in SSR No. 1.   system.
5. Ground water         To assess utilization of existing   Studies completed to a    Provided basis
monitoring (SAR         wells and rate of increase of  good standard.          for a useful
5.25(iii)               wells installcd and their use                          report.
6. Crop data collection    To report changes in cropping    Reported on during ICR   Useful for
(SAR 5.25(iii) and (iv)    patterns, crop selections and  meeting, July 1994. Some  planning future
farming intensities;assist in  doubt about crop pattern  work.
identifying factors that increase  and yield conclusions.
or decrease adoption rates.
7. Impact of project    To indicate how well the      No details because       Not possible
works (SAR 5.25 (vi)    project was working           project not operational.   since project not
operational.
8. Progress of R&R      To check on efficacy of R&R   Regular reports made.    Work virtually
activities of PAPs from    activities                                          completed.
Mannair Dam (SAR
5.25 (vii)
9. Integration of Minor   To find out if it was desirable    Done as part of GW  Positive
Tanks (SAR 5.27 (iii))   to integrate minor tanks in the   investigation, which  recommendation
surface water irrigation system    decided it was not a  which helps
useful idea.            groundwater
decision.
cont'd/..



25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined           Status          Impact of study
10. Detailed water     To assist in changing to RWSS   Some work done but  None so far,
management plan       irrigation                    incomplete.             project
(SAR 6.04/6.14)                                                            inoperable.
11. Transient Flow     To assist with water scheduling   Not done.         None.
Model (SAR 6.20(a))    and canal/dam control.
12. Realistic O&M costs  In-depth examination of O&M    Not complete.      None.
(SAR 6.29 and Annex 4)  costs - rules, procedures and
financial requirements
Studies Identified After
Effectiveness
13. Integrated Operation  To enquire into the integrated   Some work done but  Useful for
Studies                operation of Sri Sailam and  incomplete.             hydrological
Naga Juna Saga Dam                                  work on future
projects.
14. Gorakullu Crossing   To decide the most effective  Completed but some   Has basically
Study                  design.                      queries outstanding.    resolved the
design of this
bye-pass
structure.
15. Telecommunications  Design of project           Not completed.         None.
communication system.



26
Table 8A: Project Expenditure
Appraisal Estimate       Actual          Actual as % of
Estimate
Rs M       US$M      Rs M      US$M       Rs      US$
Land acquistion                          186.3      14.3    343.0       12.3      184      86
Civil works                             5828.2     448.3    4968.0    191.6        85      43
Equipment                                 79.6       6.1      19.1       0.8       24      13
Resettlement & Rehabilitation             75.3       5.8      39.3       1.7       52      29
Support services                          15.7       1.2     179.4       6.6     1140    550
TOTAL:                                  6185.1     475.7    5548.8    213.0        90      45
Comments:
Actual total project coats in Rupee terms as of June 30, 1994, were Rs5,548.8 million ( Annex 1, Tables 1-3), or
90% of the appraisal cost estimates of Rs6,185 million. Actual costs were Rs2,218.4 for SRSP, including Rs2,122.2
million for the construction works in below LMD sub-project and Rs96.2 million for the pilot modernization works
in above LMD sub-preject, and Rs3,330.4 million for SRBC sub-project, or 74% and 104% respectively of the
appraisal estimates of Rs2,977 million for SRSP and Rs3,208 million for SRBC. In US dollar terms, due to
devaluation of the Indian Rupee against US dollar the actual total project costs were only 213 million, or 45% of
the appraisal cost estimates of 475.7 million.
Cost overrun was 326% for SRSP and 175% for SRBC. An analysis of seven on-going packages of contracts
showed that the cost estimates using Government's schedule rates are about 70% (ranging from 45% to 120%)
lower than the actual tender value.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Sources                        Estimates (USS M)         Actual (USS M)
IBRD/IDA                                                271.0                   118.0
GOI/GOAP                                                204.7                    95.0
TOTAL                                                 475.7                    213.0
Comments: Total loan of US$131 million was cancelled and SDR40.8 million out of the IDA credit was diverted
to finance the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project (Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN).



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
|   Appraisal Estimate              ICR Estimatel/
SRS           SRBC             SRS           SRBC
Increased irrigated area (ha)       165,000         65,000         165,000         65,000
Rehabilitated area (ha)             163,000                        163,000                   l
Increased production (000             481             99             1024           194
ton/year)                                                                                    l
Generated farm employment             7.2             4.5            37.8           12.9
(million man-day/year)                                                                       l
Generated non-farm employment        7,500           4,700          21,840         41,850
Gobs/year)                                                                                   l
Net Present Value (Y's.M)                                                                    l
SRS                                          4,810                          3,954
SRBC                                         1,136                          -487
Whole project                                5,946                          3,467
Economic Rates of Return (%)                                                                 l
SRS                                           23                            16.1
SRBC                                          20                            11.0
Whole Project                                 22                            14.4
Underlying Assumptions               SRS            SRBC             SRS           SRBC
Project life (years)                  50              50              50             50
Standard Conversion Factor            0.8             0.8             0.9           0.9
Construction Conversion Factor        0.75           0.75            0.80           0.80
Unskilled Labour valued at:           0.67           0.67            0.90           0.90
Financial Wage Rate (Rs/man-day)      10              10              25             20
At full development after investment of estimated completion costs during follow-on AP Irrg. III.



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
India
Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Origial      Revised
C|vCnant  Present   fulfillment   fulfillment          DEscription of
Agreement  Section    type       status      datc          date                eDvenant                 Comments
2.01,        T        OK        04/30/87        //      On April 30 of each year &
SH.2ai                                                  thereafter furnish to Assoc. for its
review detailed design & draft
contract docs. for all civil works
under Parts A & B of the project
to be implemented during the
subsequent construction season.
2.01,        T        OK          //            //      On April 30 of each year &
SH.2aiii                                                thereafter furnish to Assoc. for its
review, plans for the roads under
Part C of the project to be
constructed during the
subsequent construction season.
2.01,        M        NC        10/01/86        //      Introduce & apply a detailed    Not done before
SH.2b                                                   water management plan in the    Project Closing in
SRS sub-project area, satisfactory June 1994.
to the Association, which would
plan to include a RWS system
taking into account the need for
regulating irrigated wet and dry
crops.
2.01,        M        NC           //           //      Before 2 years of water delivery   Not yet required
SH.2c                                                  in SRDC sub-project, prepare    since Gorakallu bye-
detailed water management plan   pass not yet built.
including RWSS. and introduce
thereafter considering the
Association's comments.
2.01,        M        NC        09/01/87        //      On September I of each year,    Not done before
SH2di                                                   commencing Sept. 1, 1987, advise  Project Closing in
farmers the proposed timing and  June 1994.
the number of turns for water to
be made available in their outlets
in subsequent October-March
period.
2.01,        M        NC        10/01/87        //      On Oct. I of each year, starting   Not done before
SH.2dii                                                 Oct.1, 1987, finalize water     Project Closing in
distribution schedule for farmers  June 1994.
& inform them accordingly. Any
predictable changes to be
communicated to farmers at least
one month prior to
implementation.
2.01,        M        NC        05/31/87        //      Take all necessary action to    Not done before
SH.2e                                                   organize farmers committees at   Project Closing in
chak outlets by May 31, 1987 in   June 1994.
areas currently being irrigated
and not later than six months
before the expected date for
irrigation water to be delivered in
those areas to be irrigated.
2.01,        T        NC          //            //      Cause the irrigation distribution   Not done before
SH.2f                                                   systems to be developed         Project Closing in
concurrently with construction of  June 1994.
major canals in each of SRBC
sub-project and SRS sub-project
areas.
cont'd/



29
Original      Revised
(twenant  Present   fulrdiment    fulftilment            Description of
Agreemcnt  Section      type      status       dale          date                covenant                  Comments
2.01,        T         OK          //            //       Ensure that each distributary   Design reviewed by
SH.2g                                                     linked to Kakatiya canal between  Bank. Under
km 234 & km 267 shall carry no   implementation.
less than 25 cusec of water and
command no less than 1,000 ha.
2.01,        M         OK           //           //       Sanction staff positions in its
SH.2h                                                     Irrigation Department in
accordance with organization &
staffing schedules established in
consultation with the Association.
2.01,        M         OK           //           //       Provide staff with the necessary
SH.2i                                                    training for adequately
implementing the project and
operating and maintaining the
irrigation systems.
2.01,        M         NC        10/01/87     07/01/91   Establish and maintain an        Not done before
SH.2ji                                                    agricultural extension system in   Project Closing in
accordance with organization &    June 1994.
staffing arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, which shall
include two special agricultural
extension units in the SRS sub-
project area.
2.01,        M         NC        10/01/88      12/31/93   Establish and maintain an       Not done before
SH2jii                                                    agricultural extension system in   Project Closing in
accordance with organizational &  June 1994.
staffing arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, one -pecial
agricultural extension ut it in the
SRBC sub-project area.
2.01,        M         OK        06/30/87        //       Furnish to the Association for
SH.2k                                                     review plans for strengthening the
PPM Unit by June 30, 1987 and
carrying out M&E activities
under Part G of the Project, and
thereafter, taking into account the
Association's comments, if any,
implement such plans.
2.01,        M         NC       04/30/87       12/31/93   Establish a committee, with     Not done before
SH.21                                                     CADA Administrator as a         Project Closing in
member, to coordinate water     June 1994.
nmanagement and agricultural
production activitics in SRBC
sub-project.
2.01,        T         OK           //           //       Furnish to the Association, for its Bank agreed to the
SH.2m                                                     review & comments, training     initial training
prograni for the staff and the  program. Further
farmers committee chairman.     programme was
developed by
WALAMTARI.
2.01,        M         OK           //           //       Take all requisite action to    GOAP has given an
SH.2n                                                     ensure supply of not less than 19  undertaking in this
TMC of water to SRBC from       regard.
June I to March 31.
2.01,        M         NC          //            //       Take all such steps to ensure that Not done before
SH2o                                                      the outilet comimittees operate,    Project Closing in
repair & nmaintain the field    June 1994.
channeIs.
cont'd/..



30
Orinnai       Rviwed
Covenant  Present   fulfillment   fulfillment           Deacription of
Agreement  Section      type     status       date          date                  vnant                  Comments
2.01,        T         NC       12/31/86         //      Cause AP Agricultural University  Not done before
SH.2p                                                   to furnish proposals to ICAR to   Project Closing in
establish suitable facilities to  June 1994.
carry out agr. research in SRBC
and SRS sub-project areas and
furnish the programs developed
to the Association for review.
2.06         T        OK        12/31/86      09/30/87   Establish Dam Safety Panel, with
Assoc. approval, to periodically
inspect, in accor. with sound
engineering practices,
Sriramasagar, Mannair &
Srisailam dams & related
structures & facilities for any
deficiencies in the quality &
condition of structures.
2.07         M         NC          //            //      AP to take measures to          No drainage built
minnimise the risk of malaria and yet.
other water related diseases.
2.08        RPT        OK       01/01/87         //      From January 1987 and thereafter
AP to submit Semi-Annual
Progress Reports to the
Association. These reports should
be furnished within 3 months
after end of each reporting
period.
3.01       ADT         OK          //            //      AP to: (a) maintain separate-
records & accts. related to project
& (b) furnish to the Association
accts. & financial statements for
each FY, certified by an
independent auditor acceptable to
the Association. not later than 9
mths. after end of each year.
3.02       ADT         OK          //            //      AP to cause its departments and
agencies to furnish the Audit
Report to the Association,
immediately following its
finalization. and any other
information on financial
statements & audit as shall from
time to time be requested by the
Association.
3.04         M         NC       09/30/87      12/31/93   AP to ensure that construction of Not possible as
Madras Water Supply Canal is    Gorakullu bye-pass
completed on time and by        not built.
September 30, 1987 and
thereafter 19 TMC of water is
conveyed to SRBC sub-project
area.
3.06(a)      F         NC       03/31/87      12/31/92   AP to carry out a study to review  Not done before
GOAP's current procedures and   Project Closing in
financial requirement for O&M    June 1994.
of SRBC & SRS sub-projects,
under terms satisfactory to the
Association.
3.06(b)      F         NC       03/31/88      12/31/93   AP to furnish to the Association   Not done before
a report on the results &       Project Closing in
recommendations of the above    June 1994.
study.
cont'd/ l



31
Original     Revised
CoQc  rt  Present   fuMIdiment   furd3llment           Description of
Agreement  Section      type     status      date          date                covenant                 Comments
3.06(c)      F        NC          //            //      AP to implement the            Not done before
recommendations of the study    Project Closing in
after taking account of Bank's    June 1994.
comments.
3.07         F        NC       05/30/87         J/      AP to revise current level of  Not done before
water charges to recover full cost Project Closing in
of O&M and a reasonable        June 1994.
portion of capital costs taking
into account farmer's repayment
capacity.
3.08(a)      M        OK       03/31/87         //      Establish and thereafter maintain       -
a Water Charges Review
Committee with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
3.08(b)      F        NC       09/30/87      12/31/93   Furnish to the Association, for its Not done before
review & comments, results &   Project Closing in
recommendations of the Water   June 1994.
Charges Review Committee's
reporl, and thereafter, in
accordance with Association's
comments, establish method of
assessmcnt & collection of water
charges.
3.08(c)      F        NC        07/01/89     12/31/93   On July I of every two calendar   Not done before
years, starting July 1, 1989, cause  Project Closing in
Water Charge Review Committee June 1994.
to review and revise water
charges to recover full cost of
O&M and some portion of
capital costs.
SCH.1,       M        NC        11/01/86        //      Employ consultants, with       Not done before
SEC.I1                                                  approval of Assoc., to assist in    Project Closing in
final design & documentation for June 1994.
constr. & O&M of irrig. schemes
& to carry out other activities.
Tlhis selection will be made on
basis of World Bank guidelines.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.OMS 2.20 "Project Appraisal"                             Civil Works not designed in sufficient detail for
accurate costing at appraisal, nor advanced enough
for early start of work (see relevant OMS para 21,
22). Good feasibility study not available (in fact no
feasibility study available - see relevant OMS para
20).
2.OD 4.30 "Involuntary Resettlement"                       R&R program  should have been agreed before
completion of appraisal but was not (see para 30 of
relevant OD)'/
1/ See letter of ASAIN Department dated March 19, 1986, commenting on British ED's office comments that
R&R programme should have been agreed bcfore appraisal as required by the Bank's OM. Objections
were also registered by Germany and the Nordic Countries.



32
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                          Revised                         Actual
Stage of                Weeks              US$            Weeks             USS           Weeks           USS
Iproject cycle
Through appraisal                  NA                NA              NA               NA                  155    NA
Appraisal-Board                    NA               NA               NA               NA                  8.1    NA
Board-effectiveness
Supervision                        NA               NA               NA               NA               229.5    NA
Completion                                                           NA               NA                1.9k/       NA
TOTAL                                                                                                 394.5
1 Not including FAO/CP ICR Mission.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Imple    Develop-
Specialized     men-        ment
Stage of             Month/        Number of      Days in         staff skills    tation    objectives    Types of
project cycle            year         persons         field       represented1/    status                  problems2/
Through appraisal       NA                    NA            NA        A, E(3), EC(2),       -          _             _
IDS, PR
Appraisal through       NA                    NA            NA        NA                    -
Board approval
Board approval through  NA                    NA            NA        NA                    -          _             _
effectiveness
Supervision             October 1987           8            16        A, E(2). FA, LS,      3          2            M,F
PR. RE, S.
lune 1988             4              8        E(3), RE             3           3            M,F
February 1989         5              9        E(3), PR, RE         2           2            M
Sept. 1989            7              8        E(4), RE, S(2)       2           2            M
February 1990         S              6       A, E, FA, RE. S       3           2           M.T
Sept.1990             6              9       A, E(2), PR, RE,      3           2           M,T
S
April 1991            7              9        A, E(3), EC, PR.     4           3            M,T
S
Sept./Oct. 1991       6              9       A, DE, E, EC,         3           3           M,T
PRS
Apr/May 1992
5             6        E,EC,RE,SA,S          3          3             T
July/Aug. 1992
May 1994              2              3       E(2)                  3           3           M,T
5             6        A, E(2), RE, S        ,          3            M,T
Completion              July 1994             33/           234/      A, E, EC,             -          _
1/  A = Agriculturalist, E = Irrigation Engineer. EC = Economist, FA = Financial Analyst, IDS = Institutional Development
Specialist, LS = Land Settlement Specialist. PR = Procurement Officer, RE = Roads Engineer, S = Sociologist.
2/   M - Management, F = Financial, T = Technical.
3/   Included both ICR work and pre-preparation of Andhra Pradesh Irrigation 111 project.
41   Average of the five staff days in field.



33
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662-IN/Credit 1665-IN)
Appendix A
Mission's Aide Memoire
Introduction
1.        This aide-memoire has been written by an FAO Investment Centre Mission preparing
a draft ICR for the World Bank. The Mission included J. B. Downs (Mission Leader and
Engineer), E. Simone (Agronomist) and T. Lohavisavapanich (Economist). During the period the
ICR mission was in Hyderabad ( 10 to 29 July) it visited both sub-project areas, SRSP for the
period 13 to 16 July and SRBC for the period 18 to 20 July. Both visits were very well organised
by the project staff; information, data and site visits arranged to meet the wishes of the mission,
and during the whole period in Hyderabad every effort was made to provide all information and
services requested. For all this, together with the hospitable and kindly reception they have
received, the mission members were very grateful.
2.        This is the final draft of the aide-memoire referred to in World Bank Operational
Manual, OP 13.55, dated April 1994, Page 2 Section (e) - "During the ICR Mission". This section
requires that the aide-memoire (i) records the views of the Bank, borrower, implementing
agencies, and co-financiers (if any) on project implementation and operation, including the
operational planl; and (ii) confirms that it has provided advice and support to the borrower for
preparing its own contribution to the ICR. A copy of the operational plan (if in existence) is to be
attached to the aide-memoire. The first draft of the aide-memoire gave rise to an interesting
discussion on 27 July during a meeting held in the Conference Hall at the "C" Block of the General
Administration Block, Irrigation and C.A.D. Department, GOAP. This final draft of the aide-
memoire has been revised to reflect points made during that discussion; subsequent discussions
held with technical departments of the project and a final meeting held on 3 August in the office of
the Secretary Irrigation, GOAP, at the Secretariat, Hyderabad.
3.        This is among the first ICRs (which replaces the previous Project Completion Report)
to be prepared for a project based in India. The ICR OP applies to all projects that have a
completion mission departing after July 1, 1994. This mission arrived in India on July 3, 1994,
and will depart August 10, 1994. having been in Hyderabad and the project area for the period 10
July to 4 August.
4.        The ICR OP contains the provision that the borrower should prepare its own
contribution to the ICR; this was provided to the mission2, and is a helpful and detailed document
providing a great deal of background information, which will make a most useful contribution to
the draft ICR.
5 .       The object of producing this aide-memoire is to ensure that it will represent as fully as
possible the consensus of all parties to the project and, where agreement cannot be reached, to flag
1   For operations already under implementation as of July 1, 1994, the borrower is encouraged to
prepare the plan and do so as soon as possible.
2    "Borrower Contribution to the ICR", June 30, 1994, GOAP, Hyderabad.



34
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
such issues. This will then provide a sound basis for the draft ICR. In this draft where it has not
been possible to agree the mission's text, the views of the dissenting parties are printed in italics.
The Project
6.         The project aimed to increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes by
bringing new and/or improving irrigation to two sub-project areas: (i) Srisailam Right Branch
Canal (SRBC) (65,000 ha) and (ii) Sriramasager (SRSP), Kakatiya Canal Command
(modernization of 165,000 ha and new development of 163,000 ha). Common to both of the sub-
projects were the following: provision of a feeder road network (1,152 km), irrigation water
management development, equipment, especially communications equipment, training of staff and
farmers, continued rehabilitation and provision of amenities for oustees from reservoirs associated
with the sub-projects, monitoring and evaluation, technical services, as well as provision for
studies and planning.
7.          The SRBC sub-project comprised construction of a main canal (about 143 km long
and 70 cumec capacity, including a major crossing structure across a valley at Gorakullu), and the
necessary irrigation distribution system.
8.         The essential feature of the SRSP sub-project was to improve the existing main canal
(km 0 to 146); extend it to km 285 and improve the irrigation infrastructure as described above.
Project Funding and Financing
9.         The loan and credit (US$131 million and SDR 127.5 million) became effective on
October 2, 1987. During the project period the loan (US$131 million) was cancelled in its entiretyl
2 and SDR 40.8 million of the credit was diverted to the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency
Relief Project (AP, CERP) leaving SDR 86.7 million available for AP Irrig. II. This amount was
fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1994.
Overview of Implementation
10.        Whilst some major construction has been completed or in some cases partly
constructed for both sub-projects, the main objective of the project, provision of improved and
new irrigation has not been achieved (Physical progress on SRBC was 38% and SRS 21% as at
end of June, 19943). The following table, taken from the Borrowers Contribution to the ICR,
1    This re-allocation of funds was carried out by GOI without the knowledge, at the time, of GOAP.
2    The same problem about a loan being cancelled and the decision not being rapidly transmitted to a
State occurred in the course of implementation of the Haryana Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1319-lN). See
Draft PCR, 8 October, 1992, prepared by FAO/CP (page 19, paragraph 10.5) (Report No: 139/92
CP-IND 94 PCR).
3    From: "Borrower Contribution to the ICR", GOAP, June 30, 1994.It should be noted that the
borrower anticipates that, given sufficient funds and taking into account the increase in the rate of
construction over the project period, the project works could be complete by June 1997.



35
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
provides an assessment of the present state of progressing the major works (it does not
represent what has been built):
ercentage  of
Work Type                           Description                     ompletion
I______ _______ ______   __________   |SRBC    SRSP
Investigation                       l
[Main Canal                   100              100
_Distributory System           62              90
Designs                                                     l_
[Main Canal                    96              100
Distributory System           62               90
Grounding of Packages a/
CGounded                       74              49
[To be Grounded                26              51
a/ "Grounding" is a term used to indicate
at a contract has been awarded, but do
ot mean that
construction has commenced.       l
11.         R&R  activities have been largely completed and progress towards the end of the
project period was encouraging. Provision of feeder roads amounted to 48% of the SAR target at a
cost of about Rs.377 Million (72% of the SAR provision). A good deal of training of staff and
farmers was well carried out (447 engineers, 4064 contact farmers and 3024 outlet committee
chairmenl). Groundwater studies were well carried out during the years 1990-94. Overall water
management in SRSP has not improved, no new agricultural extension system has been
established2, and although 900 outlet committees (OCs) were formed for the existing irrigation area
above Lower Manair Dam they have become defunct, presumably because of the difficulties over
resolving the conversion (IW to ID) problem3, and lack of improved distribution system and new
irrigation operational infrastructure (particularly the micro-network)(GOAP disagree with this
statement about the reason for OCs becoming defunct and say it happened only because the
necessary upgrading of the canal system had not been carried out). In effect within the six and
1    By Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute (WALAMTARI).
2    The SAR (para 5.13) envisaged the creation of special extension areas within the sub-projects. This
was cancelled halfway through implementation in agreement with the Bank.
3    This was not a new problem, the PCR for the AP Composite Irrigation Project(Loan 1251-IN), May
29, 1989, states "In the cropping patterns assumed in the SAR, the NSP future with project patterns
contained much reduced IW in favour of enhanced ID. On these were based future economic
projections and the savings in water which would permit the extension areas to be supplied. It was
assumed that GOAP would induce the farmers already growing excessive paddy to convert to the new
patterns by persuasion and water rotation means. Regrettably this has not occurred, with GOAP
taking no steps to correct the situation".



36
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
three-quarter year period between effectiveness and closing the project failed to achieve its
implementation targets, and there were no tangible benefits generated. It is thus not possible to
calculate an economic rate of return (ERR) for the project. The rate of progress and quality of
construction of the water conveyance and distribution works was improving considerably towards
the end of the project period. However the inappropriate order in which contract packages were
implemented meant none of the irrigation worksl could become operational. (GOAP wish to stress
that 12,000 ha of Ayacut (CCA) in SRSP was ready to receive water in June 1994, and an
additional 28,000 ha will be ready by December 19942).
Reasons for Failure to Achieve Implementation Targets
12.         General reasons for the disappointing performance of the project were caused by a
combination of:
(a)     inadequate preparation of the project with:
(i) planning (projected over-optimistic rates of progress, lack of appreciation
of the IW to ID problem, lack of detail and hard data in water resource
reliability estimates);
(ii) project design (departments not well-integrated, absence of a well
thought out project management unit, capable of controlling all aspects of
the project)3; and
(iii) cost estimation deficient (under-estimates of cost, based on government
schedules of rates method and no allowance for the additional costs
inherent in a project built under Bank conditions(see 9(d));
(b)     lack of in-depth analysis and detail at appraisal4, including:
(i) the critical assumption that GOAP would be able to transfer IW to ID
areas;
1    The scheduling of the works, was to an extent, upset by slight differences in tender submission dates,
delay of contract award in some instances caused by Bank queries on the tenders and the need for
GOAP to reply to these queries, however some of the more significant slippages occurred when
GOAP included works in packages which did not conform to the SAR and which involved further
investigation/studies.
2    However the necessary watercourse development has not been built/completed.
3    See SAR paragraph 5.08, GOAP were to formalize the merger of the Irrigation Department and
Command Area Development Department by April 1, 1986. Thus fairly soon after such a merger the
new organization was being asked to rapidly carry out a project of magnitude and, at minor canal and
watercourse level, requiring considerable social engineering.
4    Since Preparation was assisted by Bank pre-Appraisal Missions, it must be assumed that Bank had an
influence on it.



37
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
(ii) no detailed treatment including absence of plans and detailed planning for
the roads component - two paragraphs for a component estimated to cost
US$40.3 million;
(iii) the assumption that the employment of consultants would handle the
problems of the innovative features of the project';
(iv) lack of appreciation of the difficulty of introducing the RWSS concept
into an existing irrigation area; and
(v) placing little emphasis upon the comments of informed technicians made
during both pre and just post-appraisal;
(c)     lack of experience and urgency in implementation
(i) delay in meeting R&R conditionality issues (see Staff Supervision Report
(SSR) January 12, 1988, May 9, 1989);
(ii) slow development of R&R programme (SSR April 25, 1990);
(iii) lack of communication between project Chief Engineer (construction) and
Administrator CADD impeding OFD and planned operation of existing
canal network at SRS (SSR June 28, 1988);
(iv) inadequate preparation and design of the roads component (SSR January
12, 1988), revision of roads component, inadequate numbers of staff
allocated; delay in sanctioning works (SSR June 28, 1988, however
roads work only started May 1991);
(d)     an apparent inability of borrower and lender to learn from past experience2,
such as cancellation of CAD works in the composite project, staffing
problems in Pochampad project;
(e)     confusion caused during implementation by the well-intentioned efforts of
borrower and lender to remedy the initial inadequate project design;
Apart from the difficulty of integrating consultants' efforts in these aims, the SAR assumed that
GOAP would engage such consultants by December 31, 1986 (on the basis that the project would
become effective on January 1, 1986) and that "All consultants would be engaged in accordance with
Bank Guidelines". This was most optimistic.
2    Pochampad Project (closed December 1979), AP Irrigation and CAD Composite Irrigation Project
(closed June 1985).



38
INDIA: Second Andhma Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
(f)     changes in the Bank's attitude to procurement and reimbursement in later
stages of the project, contributed to uncertainty within the project and hence
delays;
(g)     cancellation of the loan; and
(h)     attempts to  vary  the physical design  of the project by inserting
components/realigning canals relating to Gorakullu and Owk reservoirs into
canal contract packages.
13.         The factors contributing to the poor implementation performance included:
(a)     shortage of senior staff at the beginning of the project and a continuing
shortage and rapid turn-over of staff;
(b)     delay in clearance of LCB (supervision June 28, 1988) and ICB procurement
(became satisfactory May 9, 1989);
(c)     shortage of local funds;
(d)     lack of detailed design and accurate cost estimates at commencementl;
(e)     inordinate delay in appointing consultants for the Gorakullu By-Pass
structure (consultancy awarded February, 19902);
(f)     delays in obtaining land acquisition and clearance, particularly for forest
lands;
(g)     shortage of, and use of unreliable vehicles at commencement which affected
survey, investigation and supervision;
(h)     lack of communication between Irrigation Department and CADA (formed
into one unit in 1986 at the suggestion of the SAR);
(i)     great delays in authorization of road construction (eventually authorized about
October 1990, but construction not commenced until May 1991);
(j)     poor performance by the initially appointed contractors with further delays
caused by abandonment and litigation;
Resulting in low estimates of cost.
2    This consultancy was discussed in detail between GOAP and the Bank between June 1986 until it
was cleared by the Bank in November, 1988 (it took GOAP 15 months to draw up revised TOR for
the consultants (March 1987 to August 1988); recruiting consultants after clearance took 14 months.



39
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
(j)    uncertainty in  later stages about the  Bank's  intentions regarding
procurement/cancellation/extension (during a six month period); and
(k)    the apparent lack of a strong coordinating project organization.
Sustainability
14.        Since the project infrastructure and facilities have not been completed or in some
instances, even begun, sustainability of the project cannot yet be measured. However the lack of
good 0 & M procedures and performance in the existing SRSP irrigation area provide cause for
concern about sustainability of the project, when completed (see para 9(h)). It should however be
noted, that an AP m Preparation has commenced which has as its objective the completion of AP
11 so as to provide an economically sustainable project.
Operation of the AP II Project
15.        It is not possible to comment upon the operation or the operation plan (which lays
down how irrigation operation will be administered, controlled and staffed), because at present the
project (apart from the pre-project existing irrigation areas) has not been completed sufficiently to
be operated, and no operation plan is in existence.
Compliance with Covenants
16.        There were thirty-three covenants contained in the Project Agreement, of which
thirteen have been complied with, others were showing signs of compliance immediately prior to
Project Closing.
Lessons Learned
17.        The primary lesson to be learnt is that a project will not succeed unless it is well
prepared and competently appraised, other lessons are sub-sets to the primary lesson. These sub-
sets are:
(a)    Reliability of water-resource estimates for the sub-projects. Delay in later
stages of implementation were caused by discussion about the reliability of
water supplies to the two sub-projects from their respective river systems and
reservoirs, their sustainability and their temporal distribution. The problem
here was that whilst GOAP had committed water supplies to the project (SAR
paras 6.06 et seq) the Bank doubted whether this allocation was possible
(SSR June 1991), and the resulting studies, discussions and re-appraisal of
the subjectl, affected decisions being made with regard to implementation
(procurement, approvals of contracts, cancellation). GOAP considered that if
at the time of Appraisal the assurance given about water supply was accepted,
1    Believed to have been fust flagged by concern over the effect of dam operation for power generation
at the two major dams, affecting inigation supplies.



40
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
(which it was) the issue of water reliability should not have been raised again
during Implementation, and certainly should not have been used as a cause
for "freezing" procurement/reimbursement; it being the GOAP's
responsibility to ensure make good their assurances when the project became
operational. This seems to be a reasonable attitude by a borrower. The
important lesson here for project design for future projects is that: without
an unambiguous analysis of water supply reliability for an
irrigation project, established at Preparation, and checked and
agreed at Appraisal, decisions about major items of water
conveyance become protracted and delay progress. If it is
impossible to arrange such an unambiguous analysis, the project
must be so scheduled that development proceeds in steps with
water availability being assessed as each area of irrigation
development becomes operational (GOAP strongly disagree with this
statement in the context of this project because they believe that development
has now taken place over a considerable length of the main and distributory
canal system and that it would be better to complete the project in its entirety
as conceived in the SAR and commence irrigation operation over the bulk of
the area).
(b)    Procurement Procedures: These have been a subject of discussion and delay
for many projects in India, and have, to an extent, been resolved since this
project became effective1. The history of the development of a suitable set of
documents for procurement of LCB and ICB contracts for this project does
not throw credit on any party to the project, bureaucracy and meticulous
attention to detail seemed to obscure the urgent need for commencing and
accelerating construction. However this project now appears to have a good
grasp of both ICB and LCB procedures. An associated problem connected
with procurement is the accuracy of contract package estimates prepared by
the project when compared with the contractor's bids. Whilst the mission
sympathize with the project's dilemma in having to use government schedule
of rates estimating procedures, an attempt should have been made to rectify
the situation and produce more realistic rates for project contract estimates.
Appraisal should ensure that there is a full and practical
understanding between the parties to the loan/credit as to all that
is implied in Bank procurement requirements, and the Bank
must ensure that the borrower has the institutional capability,
ability and willingness to proceed within the guidelines issued
by the Bank. If the borrower considers that the guidelines are
inappropriate  this  should   be   resolved   at  negotiation2.
1    "Procurement of Works", draft approved by World Bank, December 1993, by Task Force GOI. .
2    There appears to be a good case for an experienced, competent Bank Procurement expert (preferably
an engineer for engineering oriented projects) to be a member of the appraisal team, available to
fully explain and discuss in detail Bank procurement procedures with the proposed borrower (at State
level).



41
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
Government should also consider modifying its procedures to
ensure that their estimates of contract costs are realistic. Bank
on its part should, by now, be aware of the problem of
Government estimating and have a methodology to realistically
re-estimate the costs or at least check them with attention to this
problem.
(c)    Implementation Planning Ability: A feature of this project has been the
apparent piecemeal nature of development. To some extent this has been
caused by the initial poor contractor performance, coupled with protracted
discussions between borrower and lender (for reasons discussed above) on
clearance and award of particular "packages" resulting in inappropriate
scheduling of construction, and the apparent inability of the CAD part of I &
CAD to prepare suitable designs or operating conditions to bring on-stream
(with the RWSS system) the existing part of SRS1. This is reflected by:
(i)    construction of blocks in SRSP commencing towards the lower end
of the command instead of consecutively downstream from the
supply source and, even in the case of blocks that were constructed,
the necessary in field canalization was not built;
(ii)   delay in site investigation, design and construction of a vital major
structure (Gorakullu By-pass); and
(iii)   extensive delays in designing water distribution at field level.
Every effort must be made in projects of this nature to schedule
construction  so as to bring  irrigation  on-stream, in  stages, at the
earliest possible time and, to bring in irrigation from the head of the
system downwards. Only in this way can benefits be obtained at an
early stage and the completed project sized (if necessary) to fit water
availability and reliability. (GOAP disagree with this statement, they feel that
development in stages would lead to farmers whose land is developed first applying
pressure to obtain excess water resulting in problems later2, GOAP feel that in SRSP
development should proceed concurrently above and below Lower Manair Dam).
(d)    Cost Estimates: It is essential that cost estimates at appraisal
accurately represent final costs of the work. The costs appear to
It is appreciated that the IW to ID problem caused CAD some difficulty, but there appears little
reason for the apparent paralysis and lack of drive to do something in the existing command; such as
providing good maintenance and attempting to obtain greater equity of water supplies within the
existing canal framework.
2    This, of course, has serious, implications regarding the ability of the Operation Department of I &
CAD to control irrigation supplies.



42
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Lrrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
have been worked out, in some cases, using simplified estimating procedures
and without making due allowance for the additional costs incurred in large
contracts spread over a large area, resulting in an underestimate of costs. If it
is not possible for government to carry out accurate estimates,
consultants and quantity surveyors should be employed to
provide a second set of more realistic estimates which would
acknowledge the extra costs inherent in a Bank-supported
project and based on sufficiently detailed design. The SAR
appeared to ignore Bank policy in that major structures had not, in all cases,
been designed in sufficient detail to provide accurate costs and a quick
commencement of constructionl. The Gorakullu By-Pass, for example, was
not designed at appraisal to the standard expected, and the appointment of
consultants to carry out the design was not made until three years after
effectiveness.
(e)     Engineering Design: It is a pre-requisite to a successful and properly costed
project that engineering design is based on satisfactory examination of all
parameters that affect the design. In this project preparation insufficient
attention had been paid to establishing canal lining design to suit foundation
conditions (swelling clays - SSR June 1991) and it would also seem that in
SRBC alternative alignments of canals/structures had not, in all cases, been
studied2. In SRSP the design of distributaries and minors tended to be in full
cut, this placed some land out of command (SSR October 19893). Physical
design at Appraisal must be carried out to the standard
necessary to ensure that a good economical solution for
construction works has been found.
(f)     Irrigation Operational Features: An essential element of the irrigation design
was the use of Rotational Water Supply System (RWSS). This subject was
proposed in the SAR but was not covered in a sufficiently detailed manner to
guide an irrigation department unversed in the concept. This could well have
been the subject of a comprehensive annex in the SAR or in a supplementary
Paragraph 3.30 of the SAR states that "GOAP has submitted design and contracting packages,
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, that cover all proposed works in the 1986-87 construction season.
an agreement has been reached with GOAP that it will submit detailed designs and draft contract
documents for all works proposed in both sub-projects by April 30, 1987, and tbereafter by April
30 of each year for all work to be let to contractors for execution during subsequent construction
seasons". This agreement was not kept as the project advanced, due to reasons given in the text of
this aide-memoire.
2    See "Annexure 1, Package - X, S.R.B.C. from KM: 111.385 to KM: 114.386, Report on Structures
vs Dykes", Ref: Letter No. SO(PP&M)/EE.IlI/100(Gl)/94/95, dated 25-04-94.
3    This is a noticeable feature of many canals seen by the mission.



43
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
data volumel. This deficiency was well corrected by the Bank in conjunction
with the project staff during Implementation2 but there is little doubt that time
spent in ensuring a full appreciation of the subject during
Preparation/Appraisal would have helped prevent delays in producing
designs. The Warabundi system of water distribution at watercourse level,
not a new concept in Andhra Pradesh, but one which appears to have fallen
out of use and not to be used in new AP projects, needed detailed treatment in
both the SAR and an additional time allowance in Implementation for its
incorporation in design. Whilst field distribution works have not yet been
built, the need to incorporate this system probably slowed down the ability of
designers to proceed expeditiously with the field distribution design task.
Where a new philosophy of design is to be implemented every
effort must be made by the Bank to ensure that its methods and
implications are fully understood and accepted by the proposed
borrower.
The present lack of discipline in operating the canal water supplies in SRSP
has resulted in excessive quantities of water being supplied to farmers in the
existing (to be re-modelled) command - to some extent this has been
exacerbated by the pre-project concept of localizing irrigation for "irrigated
wet"(IW) and "irrigated dry"(ID) crops and the legal right of farmers to such
arrangements. Consequently farmers have become used to a copious supply
of irrigation water, which will not be sustainable in the future when the same
quantity of water will have to be spread over a much larger area. Recently
GOAP carried out a public relations campaign which should ease this
problem, but the success of this initiative still remains to be tested. Water
must be rationed to farmers from the start on the expected
ultimate development basis in order to prevent unfortunate
precedents being created. (GOAP argues that it is reasonable to make
use of available water on an existing area even if this means that farmers
receive more water than they can be allocated in the future). This does not
appear to be realistic given farmers' known reluctance to reduce irrigation
water use below that to which they have become accustomed.
Hopeful signs for the future are the results of a pilot programme carried out
by an NGO (IRDAS) on Distributary 64 during the period 1989 to 1992 that
has shown that significant improvements can be made in water distribution
and equity of supply of irrigation water by use of social organizers. This
approach should be followed up in the future. The subject was stressed at the
4    In fact there was no supplementary volume to the SAR which is surprising considering the
complicated nature of the project. The lack of detailed coverage of features in the SAR, such as
RWSS and the Roads component was probably a source of delay.
2    Resulting in a useful manual for RWSS - "Guidelines for Improvement to Existing Irrigation
System to Suit Rotational Water Supply System", GOAP, Irrigation and CAD Department, Sri
Rama Sagar Project, dated May, 1990 - three years after effectiveness.



44
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
Programme of discussions on AP III Irrigation Project with World Bank
mission on 21 July by GOAP who propose the formation of pilot Farmer
Users Associations for assistance in both operation and maintenance. The
SAR made a major assumption in assuming outlet committees
would be effective, and that they could be enlarged into a larger
organization of farmers. The subject warranted an analysis of
much greater depth and detail.
(g)    Quality of Construction: Some of the engineering work carried out both by
the early unsatisfactory contractors and by the replacement, more responsible
contractors, has shown serious deficiencies in construction quality, and some
is now being rebuilt - again causing delays. Whilst it is noted that the
standard of work being carried out by contractors is now generally much
better than before, it is essential that construction supervision is
sustained at continually high standards.
(h)    Maintenance of Irrigation Works: The present standard of maintenance of
existing irrigation structures is totally inadequate. Many gates are in-operable,
canal lining is being damaged by excessive weed and tree growth and minor
canals are not being prepared for the present kharif season (canals are likely
to commence flowing in late July/early August). There appears a lack of
commitment in I & CAD to effectively operate and maintain the existing
system, which has been exacerbated by insufficient budget (85% of the
existing budget is allocated to staff salaries). It is essential that a
disciplined force for O&M is created and that consideration is
given to a separate budget devoted to the actual costs of
maintenance.
(i)    Costs of delay and need to maximize benefits: The sooner improvements are
carried out on an existing irrigation scheme or a new irrigation scheme is
brought on stream, the sooner the benefits will be generated for the farmers
and a return on the government's investment. It is essential to inculcate this
principle in project planners.
(j)    The loan cancellation (US$131 M) is believed to be a cause of delay'. Whilst
at the time of cancellation the funds were not committed to any particular
expenditure, the psychological effect on the senior staff implementing the
project, when they became aware of the cancellation of the Bank loan must
have been bad for morale and adversely affected progress. It may have helped
create a situation where extension of the project was less likely to be
considered. Had the loan not been cancelled, had there not been the problem
of starts and stops in procurement and if project planning by GOAP had been
better providing sequential block development, it is likely that the project
See "Borrower Contribution to the ICR", GOAP, June 30, 1994.



45
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
Conclusion
(a)     It should be appreciated that this aide-memoire attempts to obtain agreement
of the mission findings or, where this has not been achieved. to flag the
unresolved issues. This aide-memoire, subsequent discussions and analysis
will be reflected in the draft ICR which will be provided to GOAP for final
comment and review in October, 1994.
(b)     Whilst the project has not been a success, it is obviously undesirable that it be
left in the present half-finished and inoperable state; additional investment is
needed to complete the works necessary to generate benefits.



46
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662-IN/Credit 1665-IN)
Appendix B
Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R)
Introduction
1.        The R&R component of Andhra Pradesh Irrigation II (AP II) Project was described in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as comprising "the rehabilitation of and amenities for oustees
from the Srisailam and Lower Manair reservoir sites and other project works;" (The Project,
Summary of Project Components). The Srisailam reservoir was originally constructed by GOAP
as a hydroelectric scheme and was completed in 1981 after its site was gradually acquired from
1974 onwards. This reservoir now serves multi-purpose objectives of power, irrigation and water
supply. The Lower Manair reservoir was completed by GOAP in 1985 to store surplus Godavari
River waters and the flow of the Manair River for extension of the SRS sub-project. In the
detailed description of the project components further details were given of how Project Affected
Persons (PAPs) would be treated for the two reservoir sites, and concludes: "An agreement has
been reached with the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) that they will resettle and
rehabilitate the PAPs in accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank/IDA; such a plan
would be based on paras 3.17-3.20 and Annex 7 of the SAR. The program, along with the Action
Plan covering Srisailam and Manair Reservoir sites, would be submitted to the Bank/IDA for
approval, as a condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness (1987)".
2.        Annex 7 of the SAR was very brief (half a page) and some paragraphs were so
general as to be capable of different emphasis and interpretations by readers. As noted in the main
text (para 6) and expanded in paras 5-11 below, there was considerable delay in obtaining a
suitable R&R plan from GOAP and effectiveness was eventually granted to the project after this
condition was relaxed.
The R&R Component
3.        The total number of households affected by and displaced by the construction of the
two reservoirs under the Andhra Pradesh Irrigation II Project is 43,979. The AP II project
included all past oustees in its R&R Program. The program consisted of providing improved
village infrastructure facilities, vocational training and income generating schemes for the oustees.
Persons affected or displaced by the construction of canal, irrigation structures and similar works
were not provided for in the AP II R&R component. Houseplots were only provided for Srisailam
oustees in resettlement villages; Lower Manair Dam oustees were not given houseplots.
4.        The people considered to be PAPs were any persons whether land owners or landless
who was residing or cultivating land or carrying out any occupation in the area and who were
adversely affected by the submergence during the filling of the two reservoirs. The unit of
entitlement for land and house compensation, and rehabilitation grants was the family. The Project
Affected Family (PAF) was considered to be wife, husband and dependent children. Major sons
were treated as a separate PAF under the R&R program.



47
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Resettlement and Rehabilitation
The R&R Action Plan (RAP)
5.         The RAP was based on two sample surveys conducted by the Center for Economic
and Social Studies (CESS), Hyderabad, and the Bureau of Statistics (BES), Hyderabad, in 1986.
Both surveys examined whether households purchased assets with the compensation received,
studied the changes in the socio-economic conditions of the households after evacuation, identified
deprived groups, suggested a plan for the economic rehabilitation of the deprived groups and
identified gaps in the socio-economic infrastructure provided by GOAP in the new settlements.
Using this survey GOAP prepared two annual RAPs for the 1988-89 and 1989-90 periods. This
was later updated to a revised three year RAP for 1991-93. It was submitted by the authorities in
1991 to the Bank and officially cleared in September 1991. It should be noted that GOAP was not
required to formulate an R&R Policy as a basis for the RAP.
6.         A total of Rs.146.54 million was spent on village infrastructure and civic amenities,
while Rs.39.0 million was used for income-generating schemes and vocational training. The
infrastructure and the rehabilitation components are reported as 97 percent and 96 percent complete
at closure. However, some doubt exists as to the coverage of the rehabilitation component since
the RAPs do not relate the schemes to the target population of 24,126 eligible families below the
poverty line.
7.         The overall responsibility for arranging R&R was borne by I&CAD. Implementation
was the shared responsibility of the relevant District Collector and the Chief Engineers of SRBC
and SRS respectively. They were assisted in this task by I&CAD staff and the Panchayat Raj.
Economic rehabilitation was planned by the R&R cell in the District Rural Development Agency
(DRDA) which the District Collector chairs. Project R&R staff formed part of these cells.
Monitoring functions were carried out by the Special Officer, Project Planning and Monitoring
(PPM), I&CAD, Hyderabad, whilst concurrent evaluation and impact assessment was done by
CESS.  Maintenance of resettlement infrastructure was carried out by the Panchayat Raj
Department.
8.         Participation and Consultation was organized through a District level Committee
which supervised R&R implementation; this included representatives from the oustee comminity
and the state legislature. In addition, local NGOs were involved in this process.
9.         GOAP decided to settle Srisailam oustee disputes regarding land acquisition
compensation outside the formal court system as the court system was found to be time
consuming. The method introduced was the establishment of Lok Adalats (Peoples's Courts) in
the district, which settled disputes about land acquisition and compensation. The District Judge
and the District Collector helped by members of the District legal Aid Committee visited each
affected village, identified the complainants and settled compensation disputes through a process of
negotiation with the PAPs. This process relieves PAFs from long periods of waiting for settlement
of claims for enhanced compensation. Towards the end of the project period GOAP decided to
settle all outstanding compensation claims by Srisailam PAPs with a 30 percent solatium and to
release compensation amounts in the form of government bonds, this is said to provide a form of
forced savings to oustees. It is anticipated that this method of paying compensation will enable
oustees to retain their compensation until they need it to purchase land or other productive assets; in
the past they tended to use compensation for consumption. No Lok Adalat has been instituted for
Lower Manair Dam oustees.



48
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Repoit
Appendix B: Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Benefits
10.       In all 24,126 out of the 43,979 PAFs, those below the poverty line, were eligible for
economic rehabilitation through non-land based income generating schemes. This was because the
economic rehabilitation plans were based on only oustees below the poverty line being assisted and
this was done through the Government's Integrated Rural Development Programs' (IRDP) ex-
gratia cash grants and loans in addition to compensation for houses and land acquired. The
increase made in compensation towards the end of the period by the Lok Adalats have also
benefitted Srisailam PAFs. Economic rehabilitation programs based on irrigation have had
considerable success. Several lift irrigation schemes have been implemented for the oustees.
Women's economic activity based groups have been successful; these groups proved to be credit
worthy making regular repayments on loans and revolving fund accounts. In many cases,
however, livestock schemes were not successful due to saturation of village demand, and lack of
veterinar-y services for the high quality animals provided. Instances of sale of assets to obtain cash
abound as in all IRDP programs.
I 1.      In 1993-94 the pace of R&R implementation improved considerably. The major
problems of the earlier plan - poor support from the local banks, lack of adequate follow-up by
DRDA, poor coverage of women, were to a great extent resolved. Coordination between Project
Authorities, banks and DRDA improved. Problems with contractors were largely resolved. It is
noticeable that this improvement took place after the Bank comrnenced making arrangements to
close th-ie project. The fundamental issue of adequacy of coverage of income restoration schemes in
relation te the number of eligible PAFs remains.
C oncluisions
12.       GOAP took a very long time to appreciate the Bank's desire for a comprehensive
R&R procyram to address the adverse impacts of displacement of 43,979 families by pre-project
GOAP-funded reservoir construction. Until about 1992-93 GOAP prevaricated on R&R to avoid
action until ther the project was complete.
i 3.      Ec.-ononic rehabilitation programs based on minor irrigation and women's groups
i!rAv`e ble un s ucCe>SfL1l, but livestock schemes were inadequately planned and less successful.
i 4.      The R&R program did not allow for PAPs arising from canal and road construction.
Any that were created by AP II will have to be dealt with under the proposed AP III project along
with any likely to be caused by the later project.
15.       G(OAP was successful in speeding-up compensation to Srisailam  oustees by
i);stituting and using the Lok Adalat system.
16.       While expenditure on civic amenities and infrastructure for resettlement villages
exceeded SAR allocations, the economic rehabilitation implementation program suffered from
fundamental flaws. An R&R Policy of compensation and income restoration entitlement for PAFs
was not forrnulated and agreed at appraisal and a satisfactory RAP was not agreed by the time the
project was declared effective. The RAP became a "rolling" annual program which was
periodically updated based on Bank supervision mission impressions. While targets for village



49
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Resettlement and Rehabilitation
infrastructure and civic amenities were rationally selected, Bank missions failed to insist on: (a)
income restoration for all displaced families and not only those below the poverty line; and (b)
relate IRDP scheme targets to the population of eligible PAFs. At project closure, it is therefore
difficult to determine if all "eligible" PAFs received income restoration assistance.



50
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662-IN/Credit 1665-IN)
Appendix C
Economic Re-Evaluation
A. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
1.        At appraisal, the increase in agricultural production was expected to come
from a more stable and intensified cultivation and shifts to higher value crops especially
groundnuts and long staple cotton, and also shifts to high yielding variety seeds. The
command areas include 328,000 ha in the Sriramasagar Scheme (SRS), including 165,000
ha (km 0-146) under irrigation modernization in the above Lower Manair Dam (LMD)
and 163,000 ha (km 146-284) under new irrigation in the below LMD, and 65,000 ha
under new irrigation in the Srisailam Right Branch Canal Scheme (SRBC). In the
already irrigated areas in SRS, present cropping intensity was 120%, and it was projected
to increase to 123% without project (WOP) and 150% with project (WP). In the areas
where irrigation was to be introduced, cropping intensities were 108% present and WOP
and 135% WP in SRS, and 106% present and WOP and 135% WP in SRBC. Yields
were projected to increase slightly WOP.
2.        At project completion in June 1994, benefits have not commenced because
construction work, were only partially completed. With additional investments to
complete the on-going works benefits are expected to be generated from 1995 and full
benefits are expected thereafter. Cropping patterns and yields of crops in present
situation are based on farm surveys conducted by the Department of Agriculture (DOA)
while those in WOP and WP are projected by DOA based on farm surveys and historical
productivity trends in the project areas. Cropping intensity in Present, WOP and WP in
the sub-project areas are summarized below:
P              WOP              WP
Cropping Intensity (%)
Above LMD (km 0-146)           148              151              152
Below LMD (km 146-284)         109              114              149
SRBC                           103              107              163
3.       In WP, it has been projected that there would be significant shifts from low
value crops (pulses, peageon pea, chick pea, coriander, tobacco, medium staple cotton,
etc.) to higher value crops, including long staple cotton, oilseeds, vegetables, mulberry,



51
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Economic Re-Evaluation
fruits and some seed production. Projected yields of major crops except cotton in both
WOP and WP are higher than the appraisal estimate as shown below:
Yields (t/ha)
Appraisal Estimate                 ICR Estimate
Crops              WOP              WP              WOP              WP
Paddy             2.0-3.5         3.5-4.5          3.2-3.5          5.4-5.6
Maize             1.2-3.2         2.5-4.0          2.2-2.7          3.0-4.5
Groundnuts       0.6-1.1          1.1-1.5          1.0-1.8          1.8-2.5
Cotton            1.0-2.1         2.5-3.5          1.1-1.3           2.5
Sorghum           1.0-1.4         2.3-2.5           1.2             2.5-3.0
Sunflower                           -              0.6-0.7          1.5-2.0
B. FARM INCOMES
4.         At appraisal, the impact of the project on farm incomes was analyzed for
three representative farms: 2.3 ha farms in already irrigated areas and newly irrigated
areas in SRS and 3.6 ha newly irrigated areas in SRBC. Table 12 of SAR shows the
estimated incremental annual net farm incomes in 1985 constant prices before taxes and
water charge payments of Rs. 10,340 and Rs. 11,550 for 2.3 ha farms in already and newly
irrigated areas in SRS and Rs 31,900 for 3.6 ha farms in newly irrigated areas in SRBC.
Re-stated in FY95 constant prices, incremental annual net farm incomes would be Rs.
22,130, Rs.24,720 and Rs.68,265 respectively.
5.         The net farm  incomes have been re-estimated at completion on the
assumptions made at appraisal using the current and projected cropping patterns and
crop budgets in WOP and WP situations and the prevailing 1994 prices of outputs and
inputs (Table 2). Based on the above assumptions, the re-estimated incremental annual
net farm income at full development is Rs.25,930 and Rs.38,265 for 2.3 ha farms in
already and newly irrigated areas in SRS and Rs. 97,220 for 3.6 ha farms in SRBC,
reflecting real increases of 17%-55% over the appraisal estimates. The project would
directly benefit approximately 527,660 farms in SRS and 57,200 farms in SRBC at full
development.



52
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Economic Re-Evaluation
C. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.        At appraisal, the economic rates of return (ERRs) were estimated at 23%
for the SRS and 20% for SRBC and 22% for the combined two schemes, based on the
following assumptions:
-      Project life of 50 years, including a construction period of seven and
a half years;
-      All project's investment costs were taken into account in the analysis,
including the sunk costs of the Manair Dam (75% allocated to
irrigation) and its conveyance (Rs. 876 million, Table 15 b of SAR).
The weighted average construction conversion factor (CCF) of 0.75
was used to convert the financial construction costs into border
prices;
-      Unskilled labour inputs were valued at 67% of the market wage;
-      Prices of non-traded goods and services were adjusted by a Standard
Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.80;
-      Annual O&M expenditures were estimated at Rs. 150/ha, adjusted
by CF of 0.67%;
-      Foregone benefits from land acquired for construction under the
project, and land submerged by Manair reservoir (7,400 ha) were
valued at the net economic value of rainfed crop in WOP;
-      Foregone benefits of hydro-power in SRBC was estimated at Rs. 9.6
million annually when the Srisailam Reservoir is not spilling;
-      Economic farm-gate prices of paddy, maize, groundnuts, sorghum,
cotton and fertilizers were based on projected 1985, 1990 and 1995
world market prices in 1985 constant prices;
-      Planned irrigation intensities were assumed to be attained in 3 years
in areas already irrigated and 5 years in areas where irrigation was
to be newly introduced;
-      Cropping intensities in WOP were assumed to be attained in 7 years
in areas already irrigated and 10 years in areas enjoying new
irrigation 3 years and 5 years respectively in WP, and projected yields



53
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Economic Re-Evaluation
in WOP were to be achieved in 7 and 10 years and 5 and 7 years
respectively in WP.
7.        The ICR  re-evaluation of the project's ERRs follows the appraisal
assumptions. The main differences are:
Actual project expenditures of the two schemes (Tables 3-6), plus the
completion costs, have been re-stated in 1994 constant prices using
wholesale price indices and adjusted to border prices by the updated
CCF of 0.80 (Table 7);
-     Non-traded inputs and unskilled labour were adjusted to border
prices by SCF of 0.90;
-      Inclusion of cost of land levelling in the newly irrigated areas, which
has been estimated at Rs. 500/ha, adjusted by SCF of 0.90;
-     Foregone benefits of hydro-power in SRBC was estimated at Rs. 72
million annually at the long run marginal cost of electricity at
Rs.1.6/kwh;
-     Present O&M budget in km 0-146 is Rs. 213/ha, including Rs.185 for
the establishment costs and only Rs. 28/ha for maintenance costs.
Under the project, annual maintenance costs have been increased to
Rs.170/ha, adjusted to border prices by using CCF of 0.80;
Foregone benefits from land acquired for construction under the
project (in SRS: 7,400 ha submerged by Manair reservoir, 2,526 ha
acquired under AP II and additional 1,500 ha yet to be acquired; and
in SRBC: 1,464 ha acquired under AP II and additional 2,310 ha yet
to be acquired), have been valued at the net economic value of
rained crop in WOP (Rs.5,700/ha in the above LMD and Rs. 5,600
/ha in below LMD and SBRC;
Average 1995-2000 projected world market prices of paddy, maize,
sorghum, groundnuts, cotton, soybeans, sugarcane and fertilizers in
FY95 constant value were used in the analysis. Non-traded goods and
inputs were adjusted by SCF of 0.90. A summary of economic prices
of outputs and inputs is presented in Table 2; and
Inclusion of economic benefits of feeder roads, including vehicle
operating cost savings, passenger time saved and incremental load
from time saved, which have been estimated at Rs. 227,465/km/year



54
INDIA: Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Economic Re-Evaluation
in SRS and Rs. 207,130 /km/year in SRBC based on the traffic
surveys conducted in December 1994 by the Roads and Highway
Department, AP. However, only 50% of the construction and O&M
costs have been included due to several tertiary benefits which
cannot be quantified, including an increased literacy, improved health
and family planning, access to banks, opportunities in road
construction and maintenance. The maintenance costs have been
estimated at Rs. 35,000/km, adjusted by CF of 0.80. Total length of
feeder roads are summarized below:
Length (kn)
SRS               SRBC
Completed under AP 11                             425.1             60.0
Completion of works planned under AP 11           305.1             163.0
Additional new roads                                -                96.0
Total                                          730.2             319.0
8.         On this basis, the re-estimated ERRs are 16.1%  for SRS, and 11.0% for
SRBC and 14.4% for the combined two schemes (Tables 8-10). The lower ERR is due
mainly to longer implementation period resulting in delayed accrual of project benefits
and cost overrun. Excluding the sunk costs of the Manair Dam and foregone benefits of
land submerged by the Manair reservoir, the re-estimated ERRs increase to 20.8% for
SRS and 16.1% for the combined two schemes.
9.         Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out to test major
risks, including delays in completing the on-going works and the resulting delayed accrual
of project benefits and increased completion costs. The results of the sensitivity tests
show that ERRs are not sensitive to either delays/decreases in benefits or increases in
completion costs as summarized below:
ERR (Se)
SRS           SRBC           Combined two
Schemes
Base Case                              16.1           11.0              14.4
Completion Costs (+20%)                15.7           10.3              13.9
Total Benefits (-20%)                  14.5            9.4              12.8
Total Benefits lagged 2 years          14.2            9.6              12.7
Completion Costs (+20%), Benefits      13.7           9.1               12.1
lagged 2 years



55
INDIA
Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project                    Table 1
Ctnulative Benefltted Area (ha)
SRS                                     SRBC
Modernizatlon   New Irrigation 2/                       2/
1/   km146-23*m234 -284
FY95                          0         0         0                           420
FY96                       2581      1303         0                           840
FY97                       6268      4015         0                          1260
FY98                      20518      9111      1103                          3335
FY99                      37206     17228      3536                          8310
FYOO                      59195     29669      7681                         15490
FY01                      84769     46036     13993                         24505
FY02                     111623    60994      25247                         37085
FY03                     138367    73568      39164                         48010
FY04                     156123     83122    51751                          56035
FY05                     165000     88350     62626                         61440
FY06                                          71334                         65000
FY07                                          75100
1/Areas phased over 3 years.
2/ Areas phased over 5 years.



56
INDiA                                                                                                                   Tabk 2
SacuW Amca Pradaih trigtiwn Project
Summaryoif Finune iindEcoriomlk prion
FlirtW                      Economic                                             Finrwcio                       Econscmic
Outputb (ReAon) 1/
Paddy                    3070                           6345           Inputb (RiAg
Sorghum                  3500                           6110           SeeS 2/:                  LV         HYV                 LV       HNV
Sorghufm 9646            7500                          13090            Party                                 a                           12.8
Maim                     3000                            200            Sorghum                     5     8-40                   6.7    14-70
Maimes   dB              7500                          1550             main                              10-20                      20.7-413
Soybpe                   8000                          10235           Soybpm                                10                           12.8
Grouruin                10500                          12760           B       soae ds                       30                             27
Pis.W                   10500                           9450            Groundnutb                           1S                           21jS
Pigeon Peas               9o                            8100            Sunfiower                  15   70-150                   182   65-162
ChickPea                  9350                          8415            Pulae                       10                             a
wIl-s                    13000                         11700            Pageon Poo                 12                            10.6
V geteb_ts                2200                           1960           Cidi Pa                     15                           131
Coraindar                13000                         11700            Tumrrkc                             1000                           goo
Mubary                    6500                          7650            Chilibi                             200                            10
Sugarca                    525                           970            Vegeltabs                            150                            135
Fn.u                      4870                          4380            Coriandrm                             15                           13.5
Tu  ric                  150D0                         13500            Cotton                     22  150-250                   19.8  135-225
Sun80w r                  9700                         11790            Sugcane cuttings                    0.60                           0.54
Su      nrflosrads       30000                         34W6             Tobacco                              130                           117
Bndhl smds               15000                         13500           Cator olsadu                           45                 40.5
SeadCCoten (MS)          17000                         17240            Ftilzm  (P%/kg:
SeadCotim (Lq            190O0                          18i86           Lrn                                  3                              7.3
Conan amd               11000t                         9III             DAP                                  t.5                           8.2
Taco                     13000                          11700           MOP                                  3.9                            6.1
Caste olsads             tODO                           9000            MUnLIs 0)                            140                           126
By-products:
paddy                      225                           200            Labour (Rs/md)                   20-25                         18-22.5
Sogeum                     120                            110           CraftPower(AsWa)                      50                            45
Mal                         6O                            55
Groundruts                 275                           250
1/ Non -traded outputs, hIputs, fbour amd draft power efe adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
2/ For irad comrmd. nt.e coormic nepras wsre based rn tfe aai price ratio baleen gra nrsnd seeds.



57.
IN DiA                                                  Table 3
Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Proiact
Sriramasagar (Rs. Million)
(km 0-146)
A. AP II Expenditures               FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94    4-6194   Total
Survey&lnvestigatlon                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Main Canal                           8.00     10.00     6.00      7.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     31.00
Roads                               0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     31.23     51.38     18.13    100.74
Buildings                           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Distributaries                      0.60      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     25.40      0.00    26.00
Eng. L Administration 1/            8.14     10.54      9.53     3.98      0.00     12.25      0.00    44.44
Total                               16.74    20.54     15.53     10.98    31.23     89.03     18.13    202.18
1/Approtioned from the total engineering and administration costs.
B. Completion Costs                 FY95      FY96     FY97      FY98      FY99      FY00     FY01      FY02    Total
Civil Works 2V                     206.00    283.40    487.10    525.30    710.40    685.5    534.3    534.8   3966.8
Support Services 3/                  6.00     12.00    12.00     18.00     15.00     18.00    - 18.00   18.00     120.0
Total                              212.00    295.40    499.10    543.30    728.40    703.50    552.30    552.80    4086.8
2/lnchiding equipment and roads.
3/lnciuding training, studies, M&E, agric. support services, CAD &WUA development.



58
INDLA                                                      Table 4
Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Pro ject
Sriramasagar (Rs. Million)
(Km 146-234)
A. AP II Expenditures                 FY89      FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94    4-8/94   Total
Survey&lrnestigation                  00        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Main Canal                            16.04     12.60     23.68      2.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     54.32
Drainage                              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Roads                                 0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     46.25     76.09      26.85    149.19
Buildings                             0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
Dlstributarlas                       14.26      17.48      924      43.90      0.00       0.00     41.60    126.48
Eng. & Administrationil              28.12     30.82      52.42     23.89      0.00       0.00      8.50    143.75
Subtotal                             58.42     60.90     85.34      69.79     46.25     76.09      76.95    473.74
ResetMament& Rehac.                    0.00      2.06      0.95       1.36      7.58     22.25     24.27      58.45
Total                                58.42     62.96      86.29     71.15     53.81     98.34    101.22    532.19
1/Apportuoned rrom the total engineering and administratIon costs.
B. Completion Costs                   FY98      FY96      FY97      FY98       FY99      FYoo      FY01       FY02    Total
CMi WorKs2/                          248.10    288.20    258.60    264.60    422.60    514.60       0.00       0.00   1996.70
Support Services 3/                    9.40      9.40     12.73     12.73      12.73     12.73     12.73      12.73     95.18
Total                               257.50    297.60    271.33    277.33    435.33    527.33       12.73     12.73   2091.88
2/ Including equipment and roads.
31 Including resettlement and rehabilitation, training, studies, agric. support services, M&E, CAD & WUA.



59
IN DIA                                                   Table 5
Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Sriramasagar (Rs. Million)
(km 234-284)
A. AP II Expenditwres                FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94    4-6/94   Total
Land Acquisition                     11.6      0.08     0.15     35.25     43.13     60.84     13.95    165.00
Survey&lnvestigation                 0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Main Canal                           0.00      0.00      0.00     38.29     19.96      7.37    29.66     95.28
aainage                              0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Roads                                0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     22.52     35.53     10.81     68.86
Buidings                             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.85      0.00      0.00      0.85
C3strbutaries                       40.50    38.25     20.80    101.02    176.56    242.23    100.30    719.66
Eng.& Administration 1/             37.74    39.74     33.36     71.68    104.95    120.40     26.54    434.41
Total                               89.84     78.07     54.31    246.24    367.97    466.37    181.26   1484.06
1/Apportioned from the total engineering and adminisoation costs.
B. Completion Costs                 FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99      FY00      FY01      FY02   Total
Land Acquisition                     51.4      58.7                                                                110.1
Civil Workrs 2/                     96.00    244.80    512.40    286.90    270.80     189.4     551.4    638.8   2790.5
Support Services3/                   0.00      0.00     13.70     13.70     13.70     13.70      44.5      44.6    143.
Total                               147.4    303.5    526.1       300.6    284.5    203.1       595.9    683.4   3044.5
21 Including equipment, roaCs.
3/ Including resettlement and rehabilitation, training, studies. agric. support services. M&E. CAD and WUA.



60
INDIA                                                 Table 6
Second Andra Predesh irrigation Project
Srilssbm RBC (Re. Milbon)
A. AP 11 Expenditurees             FY9      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94   4-6j94   Toti
Land Acqui iticon                   3.11     0.43      1.6    21.45     47.11     60.06    24.19    177.97
Survey&lnvestigation               0.00      0.00     1.17      0.23     0.09     0.00      3.31     4.80
Main CarE                          63.56    75.66    67.72    40325    417.83   1199.10    325.76   2552.90
Roads                              0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      6.00    39.77     12.11    57.88
Buidinge                           3.4       5.40     6.52     9.49      9.67    19.45      6.09    60.26
aOtbution Systems                  0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Eng.& Admhnistiobn                30.53    47.22     44.48    50.13     35.46    54.87    34.61    297.30
8ubtotd i100.64    123.71    121.49    484.5    516.16   139327    408.00   3151.11
Equl,oment                         1.91     2.36      2.63     3.03      3.46     4.47      1.21    19.07
Reettlment & Relhb.                6.60     0.57     13.30     12.03    19.69    27.73     41.06    120.98
support services                   3.00     3.36      6.72     3.88      7.97     4.77      0.56    39.25
TotS                             112.35    135.00    144.14    503.49    5472B   143024    45721   3330.41
B. Complaton Costs                FY95      FY96     FY97      FY98     FY99      FY00     FYO1      FYl2   Totel
LandAcquitsiwmn                     38.6     61.7       20        0         0        0         0        0    120.30
CMI Works  1/                    1358.50   1470.50   1381.80    926.60    174.80   0.00     0.00      0.00   5312.00
Support Services 21                25.50    25.30    25.20     24.80    24.80     24.80    24.60     24.60    200.00
Total                            1422.80   1557.50   1426.80    951.40    199.60  24.60    24.80     24.80   5632.30
11 incuiOng roads end equipmert.
29 kiluding resettlement and rehnbilftatdon, training, studies, M&E. agric. support sviyes, CAD and WUA.



61
INDIA
Socondi Andria Pradesh Irrigation Project
Constructon Conversion Frctor                                  Table 7
FlrnciblCst         Dutles&  Finmncial Cost   CFs          EconomicCosts
Compostlm           Taxes (%)  Alter toes                  Composition
M)                             N                            (
fuel                        15.8                27.4       11.5       1.0                11.5
cement                      222                 27.8       16.0       0.9                14.4
other local meterbls        23.5                 7.0      21.8        0.9                19.6
steel                        1.7                I88         1.4      0.9                  1.3
olau                        32.7                 0.0      32.7       0.9                 29.4
enghadmin                    4.1                 0.0       4.1       0.9                  3.7
Total                      100.0                          87.5                           79.9



62
INDIA
Second Andha Pmdesh Irrigaton Project                                                    Table 8
Economic Amlysia-SRS (km0-24j
(Re. Million)
Investment Other Costs  Land   Land    WOPO&M   WP O&M    COM  Tot lCosts            WOP       WP    Road   Inc. Net   Balance
Clvil Works   2/      Costs   leveling   Irrigation.  Irrgation.   roads          Net Prod. Net Prod Benefits   Benefits
1/                3/                                                         Benefits   Benefits
Yrl FY89)    17133                 442                                             17575                                      0.0  -1757.5
Yr2           2083                 442                                              250 5                                     0.0   -2505
Yr3           182n                 442                                              2262                                      0.0   -22e2
Yr4           303.1                493                                              3524                                      0.0   -352.4
Yr5           332.1                52.1                                             3842                                      0.0   -3842
Yr5           42eD                 584                                              4824                                      0.0   -4824
Yr7(FY95)     5959        131      60.8       0.8       0.0       0.0      120      6830        0.0       0.0      98.7      9e.7   -5883
Yr8            5953       193      65.1       1.2      298       30        160o    8978        54D       533      1303      129a    -5682
Yr9           987.7      348       65.1       2.8      299       31.a      203    1112.4      181.4     1965      1648      1791    -932.5
YrtO          897.7      40D       65.1       4.8      292       35.3      20.4    10334      429.8     497B      186D      2338    -799B
Yr1l1         1195J      40D       85.1       7.5      291       40.7      204    13398       8022    1000J         Jo6n    3644    -9752
yrl2         11788       40D       85.1      102       298       482       204    1330B    1315.7    17832        190D    8135    -717.1
Yri3          93294      671       65.1      11       291       582       204    11258    19565    2801.1        180D   10108    -1152
YrI4         10133       878       65.1      12D       291       894       20A    1218.1    28522    40758         168D    15898      371.5
YFr15                     5.5      65.1      10D       291       80B       204      151.7   33553    55198         160D   23303    217aB
YrhI                      5.5      65.1       7.3      298       895       204      1571    3879.1    89021       1680D   31898    3031 1
Yrn7                      5.5      65.1       3.9      291       954       204      1504    4207S    81042         16eD    40(23    39011
YrI1                      5.5      65.1       1.7      291       98D       204       1508    43281     8993.1     1680    48322    4e714
Yn9I                      5.5      85.1       0.0      291       992       204      1503    44004    96378        1eaD    54032    52421
Yr20                      5.5      65.1       0.0      291       992       204      1803    4437.1   10019.8      160D   5748.7    55884
yr2l                      5.5      65.1       0.0      291       992       204      1803    4470D    10212.8      180D   59088    57485
Yr22                      5.5      85.1       0.0      292       992       204      1e03    44975    10282.5      168D    5951D    5790.7
Yr23                      5.5      65.1       0.0      291       992       204      1503    4519D    10305.4       l60D   59524    5792.1
Yr24                      5.5      65.1       0.0      298       992       204      1503    45340    10308.8      188D    59388    57783
Yr25                      5.5      85.1       0.0      298       992       204      1503    4541 a    10307.1     168D    59312    57701
Yr26                      5.5      65.1       0.0      291       992       20A4    1503    45474    10307.3       186D    59252    5765B
Yr27                      5.5      85.1       0.0      291       992       204      1803    45481    10307.3      1e8D    59244    5764.1
Yr28                      5.5      65.1       0.0      299       992       204      1803    4549.7   10307.3      166D    59238    57633
Yr29                      5.5      65.1       0.0      291       992       204      1503    4549.7   12907.3      160D   59238       57633
Yr30                      5.5      65.1       0.0      299       992       20.4     1503    4548.7   10307.3       1880D   59238    57833
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       204       1503    4549.7   10307.3      I68D    59238     57633
5.5     65.1       0.0      298       992       204       15o3    4549.7    19037.3     160D   59238    57633
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       20.4      1503    4549.7   12907.3      1680    59238    57833
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       204       1503    45497    10307.3      168D    5923B    57633
Yr35                      5.5      65.1       0.0      291       992       204       1503    45497   10307.3      166D    59238    57633
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       204       ISO3    4549.7   10307.3    t16D    5923B    57633
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       204       1803    4549.7   10307.3      1680    5923B    57633
5.5     65.1       00       291       992       20A       1503    4549.7   10307.3      16e8    5923B    57833
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       204      1503    4549.7   10307.3       1680    59238     57833
Yy40                      5.5      65.1       0.0      291       992       204      1803    4549.7   10307.3       160D    59238    57633
5.5     65.1       0.0      298       992       204       10D3    4549.7   10307.3      180D    59238    57833
5.5     65.1       0.0      298       992       204       1803    45497    10307.3      160D   59238    57833
5.5      65.1      0.0      291       992       204       15e3    4549.7   10307.3      180D    59238    57833
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       20.4    1603    45497    10307.3       180D    59238    57833
Yr45                      5.5      e5.1       0.0      298       992       204       10o3    4549.7   10307.3     16e0     59238    57833
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       20A       1503    45497   10307.3       16ee    59238    57833
5.5      65.1      0.0      291       992       204       15D3    4549.7   10307.3      16oD    59238      57833
5.5     65.1       0.0      298       992       204      1503    4549.7   10307.3      180D    59238      57633
5.5     65.1       0.0      291       992       20.4      1603    4549.7   10307.3      166D    59238    57633
Yr50                      5.5       65.1      00       291       992       204      1503    45497    10307.3    1isD    59238    57633
NPV.Rs    39542 Million                                      ERR.       16.1%
I/ .Icluding expenditures ot Mainlyr Dam and conveyance works In year 1 (Table 15 b oa SAR).
2/ Icmuding costs oa resettbment rehabilitabon, MILE, studies, training. agric. extension, CAD and WUA.
3/ Including 7.400 ha otland (Tsbe l5b ot SAR) submerged by Manairreservoir in yeasr 1.



63
INDIA
Second Andhra Pradesh Irnigadon Proect                                                            Table 9
Economic Analyis-SRPC
(Fa. Million)
Investment Other Costs Land Costs   Land    Foregone  Inigation    Road  Total Costs  WOP      WP   Road    Ire. Net   Balance
Civil Works   1/                byelling Hydropower    C&M  O0M Costs             Net Prod.  Net Prod Benefits    Benefits
Benefits   Benefits
Yrl (FY89)     1358       170       0.1                                             153D                                             -150
Yr2            e68D       8.0       0.2                                              1742                                            -1742
Yr3            140*      28e        0.2                                             169B                                             -t698
Yr4           481.0      21 D        1.2                                            503 2                                            -503 2
Yr5           439.4      31e        3.4                                             474*                                             -474*
Yre           11284      34*        7.1                                            11683                                            -1168.3
Yr7(FY95)    13803       881        12.4      0.2       0.4       0.1       1 7    1443*        5.5       8.8       124      155   - 1428.1
Yr8          1144D       38.7       19.1      0.2       0.9       0.3       3.2    1208A4       8.4       141      23*       298   -1176.5
Yrs           11508      38e       213        0.2       1.3       04        7,1    1219*       22.1      40D       52*       707   -11491
YrlO          798*       20.5      213        0.9       3.7       1.0       8.9     8558       550       98*       6e.1      107.7   -7482
Yrl 1          137*      205       213        2.2       9.3       2.5       8.9     2023      1023       1605      88.1      1533     -485
Yr12                     205       213        3.2      17A        4.7       8.9      780      183 4     348.4      86.1     251.1      175.1
Yrl3                     205       213        4.1      274        7.4       8.9      89*      248.1     602        e8.1     42D0      330.4
Yrl4                      205      213        5.7      41*       112        8.9     1094      3232      6258       88.1    a8s8       5594
Yrl5                      2.7      213        4.9      534       145        8.9     105.7     3803     1257*       68.1    943 4      837.7
Yfl8                      2.7      213        3.8      618       le        8.9     1153      4208     18130       86.1    12582    11428
Yrl7                      2.7      213        2.4      685        183       8.9     1223      4508     19072       68.1    15224    1400.1
Yrl8                      2.7       213        1.8     72.1      lg9        6.9     1262      458D    21138        68.1    1724D      1597B
YrlB                      2.7      213                 72.1       19*       8.9     124*      481.9    2241D       88.1    18452      1720*
Yr20                      2.7      213                 72.1       19e       8.9     124*      4872    23102        68.1    1909.1    17843
Yr21                      2.7      213                 72.1      19B        8.9     124*      471.9    2340.1      e8.1    15343    1809.7
Yr22                      2.7      213                 72.1       19e       8.9     124J      475.7    23432       88.1    1933*    1809D
Yr23                      2.7      213                 72.1       19*       69      124*      47864    23452       88.1    19328    18083
Yn24                      2.7      213                 72.1       19*       8.9     124*      480D    23483        88.1    1932.4    1807B
Yr25                      2.7      213                 72.1       19e       8.9     124*      480 8    2348        6 8e.1    1932D   1807 4
Yr2e                      2.7      213                 72.1       19e       6.9     124B      4812    2346*        66.1    1931 7    1807.1
Yr27                      2.7      213                 72.1       19*       8.9     124*      481.2    2348*       68.1    1931.7    1807.1
Yr28                      2.7      213                 72.1       19*       8.9     124*      481.2    2348*       86.1    1931.7    1807.1
Yr29                      27       213                 72.1      19*        89      24*      481.2    2346*       66.1    1931.7    1907.1
Yr3O                      2.7      213                 72.1      19*        8.9     124*      481.2    2346*       66.1    1931.7    1807.1
2.7     213                 721        19e       69       124*     4812    2346.8       66.1    1931.7   1807.1
2.7      213                72.1       19*       8.9      24*     481.2    2348*       68.1   931.7    1807.1
2.7      213                72.1       19*       8.9      124*     4812    2346*        66.1    1931.7    1807.1
2.7     213                 72.1       19*       8.9     124       4681.2    2348*      68.1   131 7    1807.1
Yr35                      2.7      213                 72.1      19*        8.9     124*      481.2    23488       66.1    15317    1807.1
2.7     213                 72.1       s9        89      124*     481.2    2348B       66.1    1531.7    18071
2.7     213                 72.1       19*       8.9      124*     481.2    2348*       66.1    19317    807.1
2.7      213                72.1       9*       89       124*     481.2    2346*       66.1    1931.7    1807.1
2.7      213                72.1       19*       89       124*     481.2    2346*        6e.1    1931.7   1807.1
Yr4O                      2.7      213                 72.1      19*        8.9     124B      481.2    23468       68.1    1931.7    507.1
2.7      213                72.1       19*       8.9      124*     481.2    2348B       68.1    19317    1807.1
2.7     213                 72.1       9*       8.9     124*      481.2    2348*       65.1    1931.7    1807.1
2.7      213                72.1       19*       89       124*     4812    2348*        88.1    1931.7    1807.1
2.7     213                 72.1       1*s       89       124*     481.2    2348*       88.1    1531.7   107.1
Yr45                      2.7      213                 72.1       19*       8.9     124*      481.2    2348*       68.1    1531.7   107.1
2.7      213                72.1       9*       89       124*     4812    2348*        88.1    1931.7   107.1
2.7     213                 72.1       19*       8.9      124*     481.2   2346*        66.1    1931.7   1807.1
2.7      213                72.1       19*       8.9      124*     481.2    234e8       68.1    19317    1807.1
2.7      213                72.1       19*       8.9      124*     4812    2348*        88.1    1931.7    1807.1
Yr50                      2.7      213                 72.1      19*        8.9     124*      481.2    2346B       88.1    1931.7    1b071
NPV-Rs.  -487.1 Million                  ERR        110D%
1/Includingagrcultural supporttserrices.resentlement& rehabllration,CAD&WUA.MEE,trainingendstudies.



64
INDIA
Seoct  hra Praaesh iruigaeon Prolea                                                                Table I 
Economrnic AntySs -Wholn ProjcC
(Pa. Millon
In_tnient OtherGCots  Land      Land    WOPO8M  WP O&M    O0M   Foregpne  TotadColst           WOP       WP    Road   In. Not   Baanoe
OCP Wirks             costs   lieylng   irrigaflrn  rfig,aon.   road  Hydro-power           N t Prod.  Nat Prod. Bangs   BSBs
Benreft   Benefib
YrI (FYs9)    18492       17.0     44.3                                                       1910.5                                     0.0  -1910.5
Yr2           372.3       8.0      44.4                                                        424.7                                     0.0   -424.7
Yr3            322.8     28.8       44.4                                                       39e.0                                     0.0   -39s.0
Yr4           784.1      21.0      50.5                                                        855.8                                     0.0   -855.8
Yrs            771.5      31.8      55.5                                                      858.8                                      0.0   -s85.8
Yre           1552.4      34.8      83.5                                                      18e0.7                                     0.0  -1850.7
Yr7(FfgM      1958.2     82.4      73.0        0.8       0.0       0.1      13.7      0.4    2128.8        5.5       8.8     109.1     112.2  -2014.4
Yre           1739.5    5s.0        84.2       I.4      29.9     30.9       19.2       0.9    1904.2      82.4    68.0       153.9     159.5  -1744.7
Yrs          2138.8       73.2     86.4        3.0      29.9     32.2      27.4       1.3    2332.2      203.5     239.5     217.8     250.8  -2081.8
Y.1o          1697.3      80.5      86.4       5.7      29.9      38.3      29.3       3.7    1889.3     484.4    594.2      232.1    341.5  -1547.8
ril1         1333.4      60.5       88.4       9.7      29.9     43.2       29.3       9.3    1541.9     905.0    1191.1     232.1     518.2  -1023.7
yrl2          117.8      80.5    8s.4         13.4      29.9     52.9      29.3       17.4    1408.S   i479.1    2111.8      232.1    884.8   -542.0
Yr13           93.4       88.3      8.4       15.9      29.9    685.        29.3      27.4    1215.4    2204.8    3403.1     232.1   1430.8    215.2
'*14          1013.3     88.3      86.4       17.7      29.9     80.8      29.3       41.8    1327.5   2975.4   5001.7       232.1    2258.4     930.9
'Ais                      8.2      88.4       14.9      29.9     95.1       29.3     53.4      257.4   3735.8    8777.2      232.1   3273.7   3018.3
Yrl8                       8.2      88.4      10.9      29.9    108.4       29.3     81.9      273.2    4300.0    8515.9     232.1   4448.0    4174.8
Yrl7                      82       8s.4        8.3      29.9     113.9     29.3    e8.5        282.7   46s8.8   10011.4      232.1    5584.7    5302.0
'AlS                      8.2       88.4       3.3      29.9    117.8       29.3     72.1      287.0    4782.9   11107.0     232.1    85582    828s2
wig                       8.2      86.4        0.0      29.9    118.8      29.3      72.1      2S4.9   48823   11878.8       232.1    7248.4   8s93.5
Vr2O                      8.2      88.4        0.0      29.9     118.8     29.3      72.1      284.9   4904.3   12330.0      232.1    78571    7372.9
yi,21                      8.2      88.4       0.0      291      118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   4941.9   12552.9      232.1   7843.1    755s2
YV22                      e 2      8A4         0.0      29s      1181       293      72.1      284.9    4973.2   12625.7     232.1    7884.8    7599.7
Yr23                      82       86.4        0.0      29.9     118.8     29.3      72.1      284.9    4997.4   1265.8      232.1    7s85.3   7600.4
Y'24                      82        86.4       0.0      29.9    1181i       29.3     721       284.9   50140   12852.9       232.1   7871.0   7586.1
Yr2n                      8.2       88.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3     72.1      284.9   5022.    12e3.9    232.1    7863.2    7578.3
Yr26                      8.2      88.4        0.0      29.9     1181       29.3     72.1      284.9    5028.8   12654.1     232.1    7857.8    7572.7
Yr27                      8.2       88.4       0.0      29.1     1181      29.3      72.1      284.9    5030.1   12654.1     232.1    785.1    7571.2
Yr29                      8.2      86.4        0.0      29.9     118.8     29.3      72.1      284.9   5030.9   12654.1      232.1    7855.3   7570.4
Yrf2                       8.2     86.4        0.0      29.9    118.8      29.3      72.1      284.9    50301   12654.1      232.1   7855.3   7570.4
Yr30                      8.2      88.4        0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.9   12654.1      232.1   7855.3    7570.4
8.2      88.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1    284.9    5030.9   12654.1      232.1   7855.3    7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.9   12654.1      232.1    7855.3    7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      299      118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.9   12654.1      232.1   7855.3    7570.4
82       86.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.9   12654.1      232.1    7855.3   7570.4
Yr35                      8.2      86.4        0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3     72.1    284.9    5030.9   12854.1       232.1    7855.3    7570.4
8.2     86.4        0.0      29.9    11.88       29.3     72.1      284.9    5030.9  12654.1      232.1    7855.3   7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      29.9    1188        29.3     72.1      284.9    5030.9  12854.1      232.1    7855.3   7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      29.9    1188        29.3     72.1      284.9   5030.9  1254.1        232.1   7855.3   7570.4
8.2     8s4         00       29.9     1188.      29.3     72.1    284.9    5030.9   12654.1       232.1   7855.3    7570.4
Yr40                       8.2     86.4        00       29.9    118.8       29.3      72.1    284.9    5030.9   12654.1      232.1    7855.3    7570.4
8.2      88.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1    284.9   5030.9   12654.1       232.1   7855.3    7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3     72.1      284.9   5030.9   12654.1      232.1   7855.3    7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      29.9    1188        29.3     72.1      284.9    5030.9   12854.1     232.1   7855.3    7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.    12654.1      232.1   7855.3   7570.4
YI,d                      8.2      88.4        0.0      29.9    118.8       29.3      72.1    284.9    5030.9   12654.1      232.1   7855.3    7570.4
8.2      88.4       0.0      29.9     1 18.8     29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.9  12654.1       232.1    7855.3   7570.4
8.2      86.4       0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.9  12654.1       232.1   7855.3   7570.4
82       86s4       0.0      29.9     1181      29.3     72.1      2841    5030.9   12854.1      232.1    7855.3   7570.4
8.2     88.4        0.0      29.9     118.8      29.3      72.1     284.9   5030.9   12654.1      232.1   7855.3    7570.4
Yr50                      8.2       88.4       0.0      29.9    118.8       29.3     72.1    284.9   5030.9   12654.1        232.1   7855.3    7570.4
NPV=Rm      3467.1 Million                                              ERR-      1444%



65
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2662-IN/Credit 1665-IN)
Appendix D
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT FROM THE BORROWER
Project Identity:
Project Name:                   Second A.P. Irrigation Project
Credit No.:                     Credit 1665-IN
Loan:                           Loan 2662-IN
Country:                        India
Sector:                         Agriculture
Sub-sector:                    Irrigation
1.0    Background:
Government of Andhra Pradesh is striving to alleviate the sufferings of the people in the
State in general, and those in the most backward and drought prone regions of Rayalaseema and
Telangana in particular by contemplating various development schemes and projects. Therefore,
Rayalaseema and Telangana regions of the State were chosen for providing irrigation benefits
under two sub-projects viz: Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC) Scheme and Sriramasagar
(SRS) Scheme under the Second A.P. Irrigation Project under the financial assistance of the World
Bank.
2.0    Second A.P. Irrigation Project:
The main objective of the Second A.P. Irrigation Project was to increase agricultural
production and farmer's income in the command area of both the sub-projects, by introducing new
planning and design concepts, suitably changing the cropping pattern for optimum utilization of
available water, revision in irrigation system, operation and implementing improved management
and maintenance standards.
The components of the project were as under:
A.    Main components:
I. Conveyance system works
a) SRBC Sub-project
1.    SRB Canal from the Banakacherla Regulator to the Gorakally by pass structure
2.     The Gorakallu by pass structure
3.     SRB Canal beyond the Gorakally by pass structure, for about 100 Km
(endingkn 141.0)



66
b) SRS Sub-project:
1.    Upgrading and completion of conveyance works of the Kakatiya Canal Command
between Km 0 - 146
2.     Completion and new conveyance works of the Kakatiya Canal command between
km 146-267
3.    Excavation of the tail section of the Kakatiya Canal to serve as Escape
(Km 267-284)
II. Block development/modernization
I.    Sub-project wise
a)     SRBC Sub-project - Block development of about 65,000 ha
b)     SRS Sub-project - Modernization of 1,65,000 ha and new development of
1,63,000 ha.
2.     Components - common to both sub-projects
a)     Feeder road network
b)    Water management
B. Allied components - common to both sub-projects
1.    Equipment for project implementation including telecommunications
2.     Provision of training facilities and training professional and support staff required for
project implementation and training of farmers.
3.     Rehabilitation of and amenities for oustees from the Srisailam and Manair reservoir sites
and other project works and
4.     Monitoring and evaluation, technical services; provisions for studies and planning.
3.0    Project Implementation:
The Second A.P. Irrigation Project was planned to be completed in a duration of seven and a half
years i.e., from June 1986 to December, 1993. The total cost of the project was estimated as Rs. 6185 m
out of which Rs. 3523 m (US$ 271 m) was the World bank financial assistance consisting of Rs. 1280 m
as credit and Rs. 1703 m as loan as on the agreement date.
At the time of credit/loan closing date of June 30th 1994, the total cost of the originally
contemplated project was re-estimated as Rs. 16600 m with expenditure incurred Rs. 5548.84 m
including Rs. 3395 m credit amount disbursed by World Bank, with the physical progress remaining at
30% only.
The project could not be completed in full by the end of June, 1994, because of earlier slippages
in the project implementation. There was delay in the date of credit/loan effectiveness from August, 1986
to October, 1987, for want of clearance of Resettlement & Rehabilitation program and Action plan by
World Bank. There was further delay in commencement of execution of the works upto April 1988, till
the Bank approved the model ICB bidding document. The project also suffered lot of set backs due to
poor performance of 1st set of ICB Contractors, with-holding procurement during April, 1992 to May,
1993 by World Bank, for modifying and finalizing earlier approved Bid document, cancellation of loan
amount of US$ 13 Im and diversion of credit amount of US$ 55m to Andhra Pradesh Cyclone
Emergency Reconstruction Project.



67
4.0 Project Impact:
1.    The project resulted in improvement of economic conditions of the families affected in the
project in-spite of part completion of the project resulting in partial fulfillment of the primary
objective.
2.    Under R & R component several infrastructure facilities and economic rehabilitation
schemes were provided. Initially the annual planned targets (1988-89 & 1989-90) were fixed which
was followe ')y 2 year plan target (1991-93). Implementation of both was monitored carefully to
achieve the targets. They comprise of protected drinking water schemes (157), construction of
schools (50), laying of roads (174 kms), establishment of medical centers (19) and veterinary clinics
(10), community halls (71) and community latrines to improve hygienic conditions and several other
schemes. About 10,900 families were provided with subsidies under IRDP for creating income
generating assets, M.I. and Animal husbandry etc. According to the Surveys, these schemes have
contributed to generation of a net income of Rs. 2,000 per annum per family and increased the
purchasing power. Due to construction of roads their villages gained access to town and cities and
helped to get good prices for their produce. Under TRYSEM 641 persons were imparted training to
improve their economic status.
3.    Under civil works, an amount of about Rs. 5,500 m was spent. About 50 percent of this
constitutes wages for unskilled labor. At the wage rate of Rs. 30 per day, total 93 million man-days
of employment was generated during the construction period, (Table  1 (C)). Similarly
construction of ayacut roads and buildings provided employment generation for unskilled labor.
Thus the endeavor of the Government to provide occupation to the affected has resulted in rural
employment to more than million people and has arrested migration to urban areas which is no mean
and achievement and impact of the project.
5.0 Assessment of the Proiect Obiectives. Design. Implementation and Operation Experience:
The main objective of the project is to increase agricultural production and farmer's income in the
command area of
i) Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC) - (65,000 ha) and
ii) Sriramasagar Project (SRS) - (Modernization of 1,65,000 ha above LMD and
development of new ayacut of 1,63,000 ha below LMD).
All the initial connected activities required for gearing up the project were almost completed.
Necessary tempo was built up. The Project was at its full swing and was moving in the direction of
completion as the closure of the project was nearing. Had there not been initial slippages with starts and
stops in procurement which has resulted in an overall slippage of about four years, the project could have
achieved its objectives by December 1997 i.e., with an extension of three years in lieu of the time lost.
In the SRBC project all the designs were completed (except for the Owk reservoir complex). Those
for the entire branch canal including the Gorakallu by-pass structure which is a critical one for
development of ayacut, were also completed and the works let out. By completion of this by-pass
structure, even without Owk reservoir, and ayacut of about 44,148 ha could have been brought under
irrigation by completing the distributory system upto Block 11. Stage was set to complete the
distributory system upto Block 11 and bring this ayacut under irrigation by June 1996 itself.
Based on the progress achieved under the SRSP below LMD ayacut development was expected to
take place in a phased manner with full development by June 1997.



68
Even in respect of the ayacut above LMD in SRSP, the designs and estimates connected with the
remodeling the system were complete din full and the procurement action was initiated. The work in the
reach could not be taken up early because some time was required to convince the public regarding
supply of water in pattern with ON and OFF basis. These problems were resolved by conducting
meetings with the public representatives and farmers. With an extension of time to cover the time lost,
the project objectives could have been fully achieved.
The projects could not be operated since full implementation did not take place due to slippages.
6.0 Evaluation of GOAP's own performance:
- The Resettlement and Rehabilitation was fully completed as planned.
-  Though there were initial set backs in the project the performance picked up gradually and all
the supplementary activities required for project implementation were almost fully processed
and the project implementation was showing signs of gradual improvement.
-  GOAP had plans for completion of the project with a minimum extension of time and could
have achieved the same but for the Bank's stopping of procurement at intervals for one reason
or other.
- GOAP had to slow down the project when the date of loan/credit closing was nearing, as the
loan amount was canceled without its knowledge which has not only cast a psychological effect
but also has taken away the chance of any possible extension to the project.
7.0 Evaluation of Bank's performance:
The Supervision missions were very friendly and were giving valuable guidance for better
implementation of the project in general, despite which the project suffered on account of the following
issues concerning the Bank.
- The Bank had no ready-to-offer model tender document of their own with the result the document
prepared at one time was being altered at very frequent intervals leading to discussions and
consequent delays. The tender document although prepared, as advised by the Bank for adoption
in the first instance based on the model document adopted for the World Bank assistance Upper
Ganga Irrigation Modernization Project of Uttar Pradesh Government, in India, could not get the
clearance of the Bank of more than one year. Subsequently also the tender conditions were being
altered from time to time and the document had to be cleared on all occasions leading to delays
for more than a year. Of course the Bank has now finalized a model document for adoption in all
future World Bank contracts. However, this facility was not there for this project.
- The Bank had stopped the procurement on two occasions, once for more than a year and this has
made the project more slow and branded as a slow disbursing project, as a result of which the
loan amount was canceled even without informing the GOAP. Water availability for SRBC was
unnecessarily made a big issue for stoppage of procurement whereas as per the latest
hydrological studies, reviewed by the Bank itself, it is proved that water availability is not an
issue for SRBC but it is only an operational matter concerning to the Srisailam reservoir. Even
that too may become necessary only after the entire upstream utilization in the upper States takes
place, which is sure to take sufficient number of years.
- Had the Bank considered the extension of time instead of a new project, as desired by GOAP in
March 1994 itself, the time lost in the name of appraisal from June 1994 to the tune of about one
and a half year would have been better utilized in completing certain components and would have
paved the way for achieving the project objectives by June 1997.



69
8.0 Lessons Learnt:
i) While the R & R issues are very important and vital, it should not go to the extent of delaying the
start of the project itself and that too after the agreement has been concluded with an agreed
disbursement schedule.
ii) Once the project has been appraised by the Bank and agreement concluded the bank should not
stop the procurement on the same issues, at a later date, during the project implementation unless
there is a mis-procurement. Stopping the procurement, mid course of the project, will create a
lot of untold financial implication to the Borrower.
iii)No foreign Contractor is bidding for small works and pre-qualification is proving to be time
consuming. Therefore it is very much desirable to consider "two envelop system" for the
Procurement since this will obviate time taking constraints and assist in speedy settlement of the
contracts. The experience of the Bank in allowing two envelope system elsewhere in India,
earlier, might not be encouraging but it may be worthwhile to try once again in the future
projects.
iv) The loan/credit amount should not be canceled without intimating the project executing agency,
that too, when the project is in the full implementation stage, as any such action will lead the
authorities to get into financial implications and legal complications.
v) Streamlining of procurement is essential since change of eligibility criteria and tender conditions
at every stage results in time consumption and litigation.
vi) Involvement of the farmers from the beginning is necessary for undertaking any improvement to
the existing system.



70
Borrower's Comments on Draft Implementation Completion Report
1)  Reference:       Evaluation summary - Page iii - Para 7
"GOAP were late in submitting the R & R data and effectiveness was delayed
sixteen months (from signing date of May 28, 1986 to effective date of October
2, 1997)"
Comment -       prima facie, it is not correct to say that GOAP was late in submitting the R & R
data in as much as the data was supplied in August 1986 itself within the due
date. On the other hand the Bank went on revising the action plan which was
cleared only in October 2, 1987 as a result of which the loan/credit could be
made effective only from that date.
2)  Reference:       Evaluation Summary - Page v - Para 16 last three lines.
"An early realization and a firm waming by the Bank Supervision missions that
the project was failing could have lead to a formal and timely review to
restructure the project, which could then have increased the chances of its
success".
Comment -       It is the GOAP's confident opinion and conviction that timely review of
restructuring of the project is not as vital a factor to increase or decrease the
chances of success, as "starts and stops" in procurement imposed by the Bank.
The Project could have been a success but for starts and stops it is subjected to
in procurement. There has been no major restructuring of the Project. Even
now the same is the case in so far as the physical components of the canal
system in SRBC is concerned excepting proposed to line the canal system upto
one cusec instead of one cumec. Owk reservoir was very much there and
continues to be there but with a reduced FRL for the present.
3)  Reference:       Evaluation summary - Page vi - Para 18 - last three lines.
"Also, the lack of a commanding, motivated project co-ordinating organization,
as in this case, would definitely hinder the project achievements".
Comment -       It has been the experience of GOAP in this case that the project achievement did
suffer a hindrance due to frequent changes of Task Managers in World Bank. It
may be true that there was some initial set back in the early stages of the project
which is not uncommon. But the project did pick up sooner than later and
moved in the right direction only because of having a motivated project
coordinating organization at Government level.
4)  Reference:       Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment - Page 7 Para 15 (i) Third Item.
"Attempts to unofficially vary the physical design of the project by inserting
components/realigning canals relating to Gorakally and Owk reservoirs into
canal contract packages - this was noticed by the Bank and resulted in delay



71
whilst packages were re-tendered for the correct components and also led to a
lack of trust between Bank and Borrower".
Comment -       Under SRBC project the canal system upto kn 141 is a component under the
Bank. During the appraisal the Bank has gone through the records and is
satisfied about the alignment. The project as cleared by the Central Water
Commission, GOI, has never been questioned. Therefore to say that GOAP
unofficially varied the physical design and it was noticed by the Bank is
incorrect. Further, no packages was re-tendered on account of this. There has
never been lack of trust between the Bank and the Borrower, and on the
other hand Bank alone did not trust its own appraisal.






IBRD 18986R
76-                                             787           T.o Ulgp,                         Ow                                             32'
Th.e bo-ndaries. -olors-                                              -             t
dttnot,not,tooe ond  any                                                       y2Cb r9' ''\I
other ,ofaeatat,oo .hao_n: gt 
h,.tpso.  dtoe      t.                      MAHARASHTRA,,)r                    .4
The World Bo-k Gropp.                                                -
r                                                                                0ony odgateo t  , t  *eg_,
/ U '  '- .   <DMADHYA PRADESH                                                                     OR3SSA   f                        ,    -' 'AM
To~ ~~~~~~~K~~qr Sh) 1o    * -Ro o t  t +  5-,,                                                              a--          eiisohp
<        3~~~~A A HaUDN>                      
'  I 3:  >/                                                                  INDIA~~~I,~t
.00                                                                                                                                                           VIZIANDAGA RAM
SFE~~~ m t  ;_ - ? 'OEFR roCs  OF  I     R            I           A            I           N                      C         E         E         )I Eor
SEE HRD '.15 JDE  OEC . 1cE
RR0,IT.OtN I PROJECT
txT. S h)g lap tI,                                                                                           0  rooe
Bay of 3L-nL 7u
KARNATAKA
_                                               ~~~~~~~~SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
T. H.~~~~~~p                                      _MEDIUM AND MAJOR IRRIGATION PROJECTS
8                                              REFER TO LIST OF IRRIGATION SCHEMES IN REPORT.
SEE ERD :125 FOR  'T LEOF CrDoto  ScEmesq
R5RCG,oJ    O'S  OJECT          A NA~N~PE                                                                                                                             U.d.r C-nt-uti-
7  N Poposed
*~~~l2                                                                                                            - ~~~ pDam-
*u.*;    ts.                        n                          z            -L L 0j E                                                  M-ic C-trls
40                          (       D ,t.        ... * .               -,       3      >     -M R,ders
i} .o ~ \)                                                                                                          I _   +   7   iEO t  Stole Capital
t /)    \ 13     sT                                                      @    Disttict Heodqo-rters
-I                                                                                        -   0 District Boundar-es
ro  ongol  re  .  n Cl] ssoor 4) , \J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-..\  Stote Boondories
o            00         ~~~~I
O     ,7   J        OJ tosodtoslo  ,5   ,-   InfeltotiioinOl Bouodot,os
0       25       510      7'5      1600 rveol_ 
ttiLES                                 TAMIL  NADU
FEBRUARY 1986






IBRD 18842
t o Nagspur
/   -                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A
\  ___KADA,M           To.Bahorsho         SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH
IRRIGATION PROJECT
& X   G. ovo,,<  \              \    SRIRAMASAGAR IRRIGATION SCHEME
OCAMPA A  \\/ 
ancherl 
Cherre-        /      /     l \q IRRrC-AT ON AREaS
PROJECT
Peddopolli                                                     FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
v / / \ --- V -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
Rtrcilla\ /DACv                         ;;;;;j;i;>                         l MAIN CANALS
- -   / ~PROPOSED UNDER THE PROJECt
->      PJ3/: FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
/   Akln. 146  <;_,<    >                                   (  COMPLETED
/b  \'          tn I;r P        \Kott. P.11,
/-\\(  -- R VERS AND STREAMS
DAMS
____ ROADS
T. Hyd-rbod   /j%>                                                    /                               OC
---4-  RAILROADS
\ ts   )  u lug        SELECTED TOWNS
----  STATE BOUNDAR ES
To Hydnb         g a go,,    \_ k                  X                   -f
\  \   km 284 \         \      \%                         0   10   20  30  43
K LOMETERS
<                  K                   h n m m n m    f ~~~~~~~~~~~~PA NDH RAre \ f
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 71,_ 4                                  -1 -1 -\, .1-X  19
T.       K'.d       |a'-                                                      _
60-~~~~~~~~1
DAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T V,,-.                              oodo KARNATAKA  -
r~~~\,   1g<=      s._ \     <<, /    ! J To Vlicyqwadn  L   g  ;~~NADU  80        F2 UA/ s8
iSi RESERV-01~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~FBLOV'8






X           r         h    <    , h ~~~~~~~5RS ARIIAM D AM/ 
)    A   / L'~~                  ~~                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Ai 
SRSALA    RIGH   BRANCH CAA
F115 NNC,Ao18\i  
3SE1C~OUNDARE AN DH .FRA  RDS                    '    
PROIECI D15-3I                          _<<Al 
rOECr51 C^A-5                       4                                           A   yo\T<         
-R1 OAD > g/  
C~ ISIRCI EO0.NDAll/            7                      
--SWAE 90UN4DAMeS ........ \7 /(S
1 2,                                           
/^g)xe9\,/          /-t   z}            k /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dd,/"
/   0   A\            D/         '    I             ; -;~20 
P~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ D D A P
K                                                                  I IOIT IS       T. OL (-- w  u  \ogdoddW
.2-    \          /      6    \WS                  -\ '









IMAGING
Report No:      15708
Type: ICR



