Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CA. :/2 e-- -2 
Reort N. P-4238-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROFOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$131.0 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 127.5 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 27, 1986
This doemleo hs a restlted dslhim mid may be _Id by recipients only in the perfoumance of
I  their sacal dude.. lbs coueb may mm ohemwise be disclosed witou Wod Bak xihorlzdom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 11, 1986)
US$1.00         =   Rs 12.51
Rs 1.00         =   US$0.080
Rs 1 million    =   US$79,936
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except as
otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 13.00.
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP              -  Andhra Pradesh
APAU            -  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
ARDC            -  Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation
(IU and CADD)   -  Irrigation Utilization and Command Area Development
Department
CADD            -  The commonly used contraction for IU and CADD
CWC             -  Central Water Commission
GOAP            -  Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI             -  Government of India
NABARD          -  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NARP            -  National Agricultural Research Project
O&M             -  Operation and Maintenance
SMS             -  Subject Matter Specialist
SRBC area       -  Srisailam Right Branch Canal Subproject
SRS area        -  Sriramasagar Subproject
TMC             -  Thousand Million Cubic Feet
T&V             -  Training and Visit (system of agricultural extension)
VEO             -  Village Extension Officer
WALAMTARI       -  Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute
WCRC            -  Water Charges Review Committee



FOR OmCiL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT, LOAN AND P8OJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:     The State of Andhra Pradesh
Amounts:         IBRD Loan:  US$131.0 million
IDA Credit: SDR 127.5 million (US$140 million equivalent)
Terms:           IBRD Loan: Repayment over 20 years, including five years'
grace, at the applicable rate of interest.
IDA Credit: Standard
On-lending
Terms:           From the Government of India (GOI) to the Government of
Andhra Pradesh (COAP) as part of Central assistance to State
development projects on terms and conditions applicable at
the time. GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The objective of the proposed project is to increase
agric-ltural production in the command areas of the
Sriramasagar (SRS) and Srisailam Rigbt Branch Canal
(SBBC) Schemes. Towards this end, the project would help to
modernize and complete the existing irrigation network in
165,000 ha under the SRS scheme and extend its irrigable
area by a further 163,000 ha. It would also help in the
development of 65,000 ha in the SRBC Scheme. Improved
design and operation principles would be introduced under
this project to ensure a reliable and equitable irrigation
service to farmers through (i) the introduction of new
planning and design concepts; (ii) changes in irrigation
system operation; (iii) improved management and maintenance
standards; and (iv) the provision of training facilities
for operation and maintenance staff and contact farmers. A
possible risk is that GCOAP may face budgetary constraints
resulting in a delay in project implementation. However,
GOAP's capability to finance the project has been reviewed
and the project implementation period suitably adjusted to
match funding availabilities. Assurances were also obtained
from GOAP that annual budgetary allocations would be made to
provide the necessary funding for completion of the project
as planned. Furthermore, with both GOI/GOAP's emphasis on
the completion of ongoing projects before nev projects are
taken up, it is expected that the required funding would be
provided in a timely manner. Another risk is that GOAP may
have difficulty in enforcing water allocation and management
procedures planned for the project. However, given GOAP's
commitment to this objective, as is evident from actions
taken successfully in a previous project, this risk is
expected to be minimal (para 79). The risk of not being
able to store water in the Mannair reservoir site if the
This document hs a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officim dutes Its contents may not otberwie be discbsed whout World Dank authoridtion.



villagers refuse to vacate the area above the dead storage
level is considered acceptable since the resettlement of
affected families is already in progress (under a
resettlement program already begun by GOAP prior to this
project) with additional provision being made for them under
the proposed project. Moreover, in the event that the
remaining villagers do not relocate, it is still possible to
convey water down the Mannair river bed to serve the needs
of the Sriramasagar subproject (para. 79).
(USS Million Equivalent)
Estimated Cost: 1/                       Local       Foreign        Total
Sriramasagar Subproject              125.2         34.7         159.9
Srisailam Subproject                 151.0         20.1         171.1
Training                               2.1          0.2           2.3
Monitoring and Evaluation              1.5          0.1           1.6
Other Support Services                 0.9            -           0.9
Total Base Costs                     280.7         55.1         335.8
Physical Contingencies                   28.1           5.5         33.6
Price Contingencies                      90.6          15.8        106.4
Total Project Costs                 399.4         76.4         475.8
Financing Plan: 1/                                    (US$ Millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
GOI/GOAP                               204.8            -           204.8
IBRD Loan                               54.6          76.4          131.0
IDA Credit                             140.0                        140.0
Total                              399.4          76.4          475.8
1/ Includes US$22.8 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements: 1/                (US$ Millions)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Annual                  6.6   28.6   36.2   46.9   46.8   44.0   35.3   26.6
Cumulative              6.6   35.2   71.4  118.3  165.1  209.1  244.4  271.0
Rate of Return:    About 22Z
Appraisal Report: No. 5883-IN, dated February 27, 1986.
1i By IBRD/IDA fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and development credit to India for US$131 million and SDR 127.5 million
(US$140 million equivalent) respectively, to help finance an irrigation project
to increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes by increasing the
irrigated area and maximizing the utilization of available water supplies in
the State of Andhra Pradesh. Amortization of the Bank loan would be over 20
years including five years of grace. The IDA Credit would be on standard
terms. The Government of India (GOI) would on-lend the proceeds of the loan
and credit to the Government of Andhra Pradesh, in accordance with GOI's stand-
ard terms and arrangements for financing state development projects. The
exchange and interest risks would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on Nay 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 760 mil-
lion (in mid-1985) and an average per capita income of about US$260.
Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for 36Z of GDP, 23Z
of exports and about two-thirds of employment. The steady increase in
population, which continues at a rate of 2.2X a year, has put increasing pres-
sure on natural resources, in particular cultivable land. By the mid-1960s,
nearly all productive land had been brought under cultivation. While irriga-
tion continues to increase total cultivable area, an increasing share of the
labor force will have to be absorbed in non-agricultural activities.
Industrial development has not progressed rapidly enough to provide employment
opportunities for the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result the long-term growth of per capita income has only averaged about 1.4X
p.a. and close to one-half of India's population continues to live below the
poverty line. The pervasiveness and intensity of poverty is such that its
alleviation has been and remains at the core of India's development strategy.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the NABARD Credit Project (No.P-4225-IN), dated
February 3, 1986.



-2-
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was generally
characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and a sustainable
external position. CDP rose at about 3.52, with agriculture and industry
growing at 1.8% and 4.8% respectively; imports increased by 4.6Z and exports by
5.8% a year. India was able to reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports from
a peak of 14Z of total foodgrain consumption in 1966/67 to 4.5% by 1969/70
through improvements in agricultural production, but progress in poverty
alleviation was slow mainly because of continued high population growth.
5.      In the early to mid-1970s, in response to a sharp deterioration in
India's terms of trade, the Government introduced various policy measures
designed to stimulate exports. This resulted in a large increase in export
growth to about 7.3% per annum in the 1970s compared with only 2.2Z per annum
between 1950/51 and 1969/70. While expanding world markets, particularly in
the Kiddle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported
inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role. The success
in the export expansion effort coupled with continued import substitution,
particularly of foodgrains resulted in a surplus Oil current account between
1976/77 and 1978/79, which was further enhanced by increased concessional aid
flows. India was thus in a relatively favorable position to deal with the
increases in international oil prices, the sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade and a series of poor harvests. The comfortable foreign exchange position
also played a major role in the Government's decision to initiate import
liberalization.
6.      Towards the end of the 1970s, India again faced considerable domestic
difficulties. In 1979/80 it experienced one of the country's worst droughts
which caused a large reduction in agricultural production. In addition,
industrial production, plagued by labor unrest and a vicious circle of supply
shortages (coal, power and transportation), failed to expand. These events
coincided with a second round of international oil price increases. As a
result, the current account reverted to a deficit p^sition and the remarkable
price stability that the Indian economy enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt
end. The Government responded by mounting an adjustment program, which was
embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85). The program aimed at
raising the GDP growth rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% per annum
while adjusting the country's external balance to the adverse price develop-
ments in world markets. The major elements of the program were alleviation of
infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy independence, improved
efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and efficient import
substitution.
Economic Performance Under the Sixth Plan
7.      Overall the Government's adjustment program has been effective despite
the severe drought in 1982/83 and a worsening of the external environment in



-3-
the early 1980s. During the Sizth Plan period, GDP grew by 5.1Z per annum, 1/
well above India's long-term growth rate of 3.6Z.  However, overall growth
during the first half of the 1980S has not been steady, mainly because of the
effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production. In 1980/81 and 1981182,
the economy substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real GDP grow-
ing by 7.6Z and 5.3:, respectively. The recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15Z in
1980/81 and 5.5Z in 1981/82. A severe drought in mid-1982 brought the economic
recovery to a halt. Agricultural output declined by 4Z, which in turn reduced
CDP growth to only 1.8Z, and put further strains on the balance of payments
and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of various economic
policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and distribution, and the
increased allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the adverse effects
of the poor monsoon. An excellent monsoon combined with satisfactory perfor-
mance of the infrastructure sectors, in particular coal and transport, led to a
recovery of the economy in 1983/84. Agricultural output rose by 91, industrial
output by 4.5Z and overall GDP by 7.4%. The power sector, however, emerged
again as a constraint on higher growth, especially in industry. In 1984/85,
despite a mediocre monsoon and difficult political circumstances, the aggregate
growth of the economy is likely to range between 4 and 4.5%.
8.      During the Sixth Plan period, foodgrain production continued to grow
at an average Annual rate of 2.61 a year-sufficient to maintain a broad
balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. The progress
achieved is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to expand
irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage efficient use of other agricul-
tural inputs which are being implemented. Bountiful harvests have led to
record foodgrain stocks in recent years. Over the past year, Government held
stocks have increased by more than 40Z. Maintenance of ample, balanced operat-
ing stocks to ensure smooth operation and even expansion of the public dis-
tribution system remains a top priority of Indian agricultural policy. Yet,
the financial cost of foodgrain storage and subsidies represent a rapidly
growing burden on the budget.
9.     Growth of the industrial sector during the Sixth Plan period was slow
and uneven. Industrial growth averaged about 3.4% a year--below the growth
rates achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. An inadequate policy environment,
coupled with depressed domestic demand, power and raw material shortages, as
well as labor unrest are the main causes for the slower than anticipated growth
of the industrial sector. After the severe drought in 1979/80, manufacturing
output grew at 1.7Z in 1980/81 and 3.3% 1981/82. The drought in 1982/83, which
led to widespread shortfalls of agro-based raw materials and a sharp drop in
the demand for consumer durables, combined with a prolonged textile strike in
1/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.1Z per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5Z GDP growth per annum
and 3.31 annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-4-
Bombay, reduced the growth of industrial output to 1.7Z in that year.
Following the excellent monsoon in 1983/84, industrial output gained momentum
and grew by 5.0X. Preliminary estimates place the growth of the manufacturing
sector at about 5.5Z in 1984/85.
10.     The-performance of the infrastructure sectors was mixed under the Sixth
Plan. While electric power generation, coal production and railway traffic
grew by 8.7Z, 6Z and 2.5Z a year respectively, oil and gas production increased
by 22.6Z. The rapid expansion of domestic oil production is largely the result
of India's oil development program. Backed by substantial financial
commitment, performance under the program has been excellent with real invest-
ment and oil production levels running well ahead of Plan targets. In 1984/85
domestic oil production is estimated to have reached 29.4 million tons. While
the gap between domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large,
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63Z of consumption in 1979/80 to
30Z in 1984/85. About two-thirds of current output comes from offshore fields
around Bombay High. As most of these fields have now reached their mdture
stage, further increases in domestic oil production will have to come mainly
from new discoveries.
1I.    India's economy has reverted from a situation of a resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit during the Sixth Plan period.
The gap between gross investment and national savings increased from negligible
levels to an average of 2.1Z of GDP in 1980-85. Gross domestic capital forma-
tion increased from an average of 22.6Z of GDP in 1975-80 to 24.7Z in 1980-85
while gross national savings remained constant at an average of 22.6Z of GDP in
both periods. The increase in capital formation mainly resulted from an
increase in the public investment rate, but it was largely a financial rather
than a real phenomenon since prices of investment goods increased considerably
faster than the general price level.
12.     The basic thrust of fiscal policy during the Sixth Plan was to provide
sufficient resources for growth and planned investment while maintaining infla-
tion under control. However, the Sixth Plan period was characterized by sig-
nificant budgetary resource constraints. Despite massive additional resource
mobilization efforts, public sector deficits exceeded 72 of GDP as compared to
only 4-5% of GDP during the mid-1970s. The shortfall was met by additional
market borrowings, both domestically and from abroad and by deficit financing.
Hajor reasons BWhind the large deficits were continued losses by mos-
departmentally-run undertakings, unsatisfactory performance of the two major
non-departmental undertakings of the States (the State Electricity Boards and
the State Road Transport Corporations), and the increasing importance of sub-
sidies which are estimated to have reached 2.8% of GDP in 1984/85. Of these,
fertilizer accounted for more than 0.8% of GDP, and food subsidies nearly 0.5%
of GDP.
13.     Developments in the savings-investment balances were mirrored in the
balance of payments. Thus, India's current account balance, which had recorded
surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging
US$3.5 billion and 2.1Z of GDP during 1980-85. Several developments con-
tributed to these relatively large deficits. First, the terms of trade



-5-
deteriorated sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases
and continued to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s.
Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued.
Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittan-
ces stagnated (reflecting slower developanent activity in the Middle East), and
payment of interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Fourth, export
growth was sluggish partly due to growing domestic demand, and, perhaps most
significantly, due to depressed foreign markets and prices. Faced with a
growing need for external capital inflows and stagnatioa in the availability of
concessional assistance, India drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended Fund
Facility of the IMF and borrowed significant amounts on commercial terms from
the Euro-dollar market and increased the use of suppliers' and export credits.
14.     Price performance during the Sixth Plan period has been mixed.  The
overall improvement in economic performance in the early 1980s, combined with
more restrictive monetary policies in 1981/82 and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp
decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices declined
from 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6Z in 1982/83. The lagged effects of shortages
of foodgrains in 1982/83 and of other agricultural products and industrial
goods in 1983/84 coupled with a rise in the domestic cost of imports and rapid
liquidity growth, gave a boost to inflationary pressures towards the end of
19R3/84. The annual average growth of wholesale prices rose to over 9% in
1983/84, and the rate of growth of consumer prices exceeded 12%. In September
1984, the Government took a number of measures to dampen pressure on ptices
including increased imports of important agricultural commodities (sugar, jute,
coconut oil and others), releases of sugar stocks for distribution through fair
price shops, and a reduction in wheat prices for flour mills. These measures,
together with a decline in cereal prices as a result of the bumper crop in
1983/84 and a generally restrictive budgetary policy, led to a slowdown in the
rate of increase of wholesale prices to about 7.1% in 1984/85.
15.     Developments in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the
progress that has been made in recent years towards accelerated.GDP growth,
external adjustment, and increased investment. The experience of recent years
illustrates that India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid
pace. It is a tribute both to the fundamental soundness of key policies and
programs, particularly in agriculture, and to the strength and effectiveness of
public administration, that neither the serious political disturbances in
Punjab, nor the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, resulted in
significant disruptions to the performance of the economy in the last year of
the Sixth Plan. But the results during the Plan period also highlight the
disappointing performance of industry, the continuing shortfalls in electric
power generation, the rising public sector deficits, the importance of regain-
ing and sustaining momentum in export growth and the need for continued prudent
economic management so as to avoid a resurgence of inflation while generating
adequate resources for development. This mixture of achievements and challen-
ges provides the context for an assessment of development prospects and
policies.



-6-
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     To deal effectively with its dual challenges of alleviating pervasive
poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor force, the
Seventh Plan is expected to aim at sustaining an annual rate of growth of CDP
of at least 5X. The Seventh Plan which will lay down the development strategy
for 1985/86-1989/90 is also likely to continue the emphasis on agriculture,
energy development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where
economically justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks.
17.     Achieving a GDP growth of around 5S  a year will place heavy demands on
policy adjustment and entail major challenges. India will need to:
(a) maintain the recent higher rate of expansion of agricultural production;
(b) accelerate industrial production and export growth through policy changes
which enhance competition and efficiency; (c) expand supply capacities in the
economy by improving basic infrastructure services and the availability of
energy; (d) improve the efficiency with which resources are used, including
particularly the existing capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and
(e) further improve the already high resource mobilization effort.
18.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the decade. As
possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth will
depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land through
further development of irrigation, better water management, more intensive use
of new technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services, and appropriate
pricing policies. High priority must be given to the expansion of the
country's irrigable area through completion of ongoing irrigation projects, as
well as selective investment in new undertakings. Besides creating new irriga-
tion potential, the efficiency of irrigated farming will have to be enhanced
through the improvement of water management practices in existing irrigation
systems. Greater mphasis should also be given to obtaining higher yields
under rainfed and dryland farming conditions. Finally, even greater efforts
must be made to build and strengthen institutions to ensure the efficient
delivery of agricultural services, input supplies, credit and technology.
19.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and export
growth to be attained through improved productivity and efficiency. A key
requirement will be greater competitive pressure on industry than has been the
case in the past. The size and domestic orientation of the Indian economy wake
it necessary that this competitive pressure come mainly from within the domes-
tic economy. An important complement, however, will be greater exposure to
foreign trade to stimulate domestic competition as well as to induce tech-
nological innovation and modernization.
20.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to allow
freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater reliance on
market price signals. While the Government has taken various initiatives in
the above directions during the past several years, the most significant were
announced in the context of the 1985/86 Budget. These include the broadening



-7-
of licensing categories for certain industries, delicensing for others,
increases in the size limits for MRTP 1/ and small-scale industries, reductions
in the incentive for small-scale industries to stay small and various initia-
tives to stimulate efficient indigenization of 'sunrise' industries (energy
exploration equipment, computers, telecommunication equipment, motor vehicles
and parts, general electronics). These are significant advances that need to
be sustained in future years.
21.     Changes in external trade policy will also be reouired to stimulate
export growth which is essential not only for current financing of imports, but
to enhance borrowing capacity, to service debt, to provide an impetus to the
economy from the demand side, and to expose entrepreneurs to the quality-
consciousness of competitive external markets. While some changes have been
recently introduced, there remains a need to: (a) provide greater access to
imported inputs and capital goods througb continued import liberalization
(b) review tariffs, eliminating anomalies and lowering their overall level; and
(c) modify trade policies in such a way that the net impact of incentives is
more neutral between exports and import substitution.
22.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently con-
stitute about one-third of total investment in India, and the efficiency with
which these investments are managed has an important bearing on the efticiency
of total investment and the growth rate of the entire economy. There is sub-
stantial evidence that better planning and management of public investments in
power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns and lower the cur-
rent capital-output ratios. For example, more efficient use of investment
could be achieved by better water management in irrigation projects, improved
load factors in thermal power generation, better capacity utilization in the
fertilizer industry and improved efficiency in railway transport.
23.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6% in
1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income.
Nevertheless, the investment required to sustain the relatively high GDP growth
rates realized during the Sixth Plan period--while holding foreign savings as a
share of GDP at prudent levels--will require some further increase in the
aggregate savings rate especially in public savings. Because there will con-
tinue to be well-founded demands for expansion of current and capital expendi-
tures in the public sector, the burden for a reduction in the savings invest-
ment gap has to be put on the revenue side. Increasing tax rates beyond their
current high levels would be counter productive. Thus, economically efficient
pricing policies in public enterprises, supported by improvements in their
operational efficiency, are to be preferred over tax increases as vehicles for
increased public resource mobilization. The sheer size of past and present
public enterprise investment indicates that if proper returns were made even
only a part of them, an increase in revenues of about 3% of CDP would be
attainable. In a number of sectors, e.g. thermal power, railways, and
fertilizer, concerted efforts are being made--with Bank assistance--to increase
1/ Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.



-8-
efficiency and reduce costs. These efforts need to be improved and expanded
into new areas.
24.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained GDP growth of 5S per annum
will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balancc of
payments position. Acceleration of industrial growth will lead to a substan-
tial increase in import requirements, even after allowing for continued import
substitution of key bulk commodity items.  Bank staff estimates place the
export volume growth necessary to support these growing import requirements
without excessive increases in external borrowing at about 8% a year over the
Seventh Plan period. Prospects for India to attain the needed higher ezport
growth rates appear to be reasonably good because India's share in total world
exports in value terms is only about 0.4%, leaving ample room for growth.
Furthermore, India's exports are relatively less sensitive to fluctuations in
demand in the OECD industrial countries because exports are well diversified
with respect to both products and markets. Nevertheless, success in India's
export drive will depend heavily on changes in domestic policy to improve the
supply and profitability of exports.
25.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to need
substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the
foreseeable future. Even with 8Z export growth, the 5% GDP growth implies an
increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$34.5 billion
between the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In the past, the bulk of this
financing was provided in the form of official development assistance. In more
recent years the availability of concessional assistance to India has declined.
Total bilateral grants and concessional loans declined from a level of about
US$1.3 billion per annum over the years 1979/80-1981/82 to US$1 billion in
1983/84. Moreover, there was a large deterioration in the terms of aid from
multilateral sources. For example, while total lending from the Bank Group
continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element declined from 71% to
41% as new commitments of IDA declined from a peak of $1,535 million in FY80 to
$673 million in FY85.
26.     In the event that official development assistance does not increase
significantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional financing required
would have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing from
official and commercial sources. This will increase India's debt service ratio
from the present level of 15.5% to 21.6% by 1989/90. Provided India can in
fact, expand export earnings along the lines described earlier, and provided
india's past record of prudent borrowing and debt management continues, the
country should be able to raise the projected amounts. While its foreign
resource requirements would be manageable, the increase in its external debt
exposure would leave it with little cushion to deal with unfavorable even-
tualities and with the risks of policy change.
27.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy described
earlier. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of .he past, there are, of course,



limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. While therefore a
greater volume of both official concessional and non-concessional assistance
is warranted, concessional assistance, in particular, will be invaluable in
moderating the build-up in India's debt service burden. Apart from the quan-
titative arguments for concessional aid, there remains the imperative to assist
India in addressing the problems of pervasive poverty. While India is now
better placed than other poor countries to tackle its development problems, the
mobilization of additional resources to address poverty problems is heavily
constrained. Concessional assistance can also play a very important role in
relieving this constraint.
28.     Summary.  India has demonstrated that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per annum. If the
rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0Z growth
rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income
of 1.4Z per annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant dif-
ference to the prospects of easing poverty in India. Development prospects
over the next few years will hinge on the extent to which the economy can be
brought into both internal and external balance, while at the same time achiev-
ing more rapid growth than in the past. This will require the continuation of
the current development strategy which assigns high priority to export
promotion, public finance discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and
investment in infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external borrowing
and aid.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
29.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 91 loans and 182 development
credits to India totalling US$8,487 million and US$13,753 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,544 million has been
repaid, and US$7,360 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1985.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1985 totalled US$179 million, representing an increase of about
5 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1985.
30.     Since 1959, IFC has made 35 commitments in India totalling
US$301 million, of which a total of US$168 million has been repaid, sold,
terminated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$13 million, US$126 million
represents loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disburse-
ments as of September 30, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
31.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular impertance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil



-10- 
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
32.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the the Seventh Plan. First, high
priority will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India
has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to
be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to
contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will
continue to support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and
agricultural extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promot-
ing greater efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector,
increased assistance will be provided for industriaL development. Third, in
line with the stress which the Seventh Plan gives to the expansion and more
efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the development of
India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources, the Bank Group will continue to
provide substantial support to the development of the energy, transport and
telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of
urban development and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor
will also continue in light of the growth in population which, despite succes-
ses in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each
year.
33.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in sup-
port of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank
economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in
part to the response of the aid comwunity, India successfully adjusted to the
changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to
require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the relatively
higher investment and growth raLes achieved during the Sixth Plan period. As
in the past, Bank Group assistance ior projects in India should aim to include
the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital
goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as
agriculture and irrigation.
34.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5 billion
in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA



-11-
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20Z by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageabLe and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
35.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1970/71, the Bank Group
accounted for 22Z of total commitments, 11Z of gross disbursements, and 10% of
net disbursements as compared with 68Z, 38% and 47%, respectively, in 1984/85.
In 1984/85, about 26.3% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1985, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.5 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was USS11.1 billion or 42% (IDA's US$8.9 billion and IBRD's US$2.2 billion).
As of September 30, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the
Bank totalled US$20,696 million, of which US$7,360 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$13,336 million.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN ANDHRA PRADESH
Background
36.     Andhra Pradesh (AP) is India's fifth largest State.  It covers an area
of approximately 277,000 sq. kilometers and has a population of about 55
million, of which about 76% is rural. Agriculture contributes about 50% of
the State's income and employs about 702 of its work force. Between 1970/71
and 1980/81, the rate of growth of AP's agriculture, forestry and mining sec-
tors was about 3.2Z. The rate of growth in the State's secondary and tertiary
sectors during the same period was about 4.0% and 7.0% per annum respectively,
compared with the national average for these sectors of about 3.6% and 6.9%.
The per capita income in AP (about Rs 1,267) approximates the national average.
Climate and Soil
37.     The State lies on the fringe of the equatorial zone, between latitude
12 37' and 190 54'. It has a 1,000 km coastline on the Bay of Bengal. Two
of India's largest rivers, the Godavari and the Krishna, cross the State,
creating large deltas at their outlets. AP has three seasons: the monsoon
(kharif from late June to October), the dry season (rabi from November to
February) an_ the hot, summer season (March to about mid-June), which is mostly



-12-
rainless. The State has three distinct regions: (a) the Coastal region,
comprising largely the Godavari and Krishna river deltas, which is agricul-
turally the richest and best developed, with rainfall well in excess of 1,000
mm; (b) the Telengana region, north and west of the coastal zone with rainfall
ranging from about 700-900 -m; and (c) the Rayalaseama region, occupying the
south-western segment of the State with rainfall between 550 and 750 mm per
annum, making it the poorest and least developed of the three regions.
Irrigation in Andhra Pradesh
38.     The main sources of irrigation water in AP are the Godavari and the
Krishna rivers and their tributaries, supplemented with supplies from minor
tanks and groundwater sources. About 3.0 million ha, out of a total cultivable
area of 11.3 million ha, are irrigated. The irrigation potential of AP is
estimated to be about 9.2 million ha. During the past 35 years, AP has
invested heavily in the provision of irrigation. In the Fifth
(1974/75-1979/80) and Sixth (1979/80-1984/85) Five Year Plan periods, invest-
ments in irrigation accounted for 35% and 27Z of total development expenditures
respectively.
The Project Area
39.     The project encompasses the command areas of the Sriramasagar (SRS)
and Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC) schemes (see Maps attached). The SRS
scheme in the Telengana region on the Codavari river, has a total irrigation
potential of about 679,000 ha. Under the proposed project, the irrigation
network in about 165,000 ha in SRS would be modernized and completed, and the
irrigable area extended by a further 163,000 ha. The SRBC scheme, in the
Rayalaseama region, is in the Pennar river basin, on the right bank of a
tributary, the Kundu. Its command area is approximately 77,000 ha. Under the
proposed project, funds would be provided for the development of 65,000 ha of
this command area.
Climate, Topography and Soils
40.     Rainfall averages about 700 mm in the SRBC area, and about 930 mm in
the SRS area. Both areas are in the single-monsoon belt, although occasional
storms occur during the northeast monsoon (November to February).  Temperatures
are fairly even throughout the year except for the very hot season (late March
to early June).  The SRBC area is fairly level, with gentle slopes and little
segmentation; the SRS area has several secondary catchments and some quite
large seasonal rivers on which there are cascades of minor tanks. The SRS area
also has several granitic and basaltic outcrops typical of the Deccan plateau.
The soils in practically the whole of the SRBC, and some 60% of the SRS area to
be irrigated under the proposed project are black vertisols; the balance are
red alfisols.
Cropping Pattern
41.     Drought-resistant crops, such as sorghum and pulses, prcai'inate in
the project areas.  Mainly rice, so-ghum and groundnuts grow in the tank com-



-13-
mand of the SRBC area and rice in the SRS command area.  The dugwells, mostly
electrified, typically command 2 ha and are used to supplement rainfall in the
wet season (kharif from June-October). In the dry season (rabi from October to
February), they irrigate about 1 ha of high-value crops: cotton, groundnuts,
and hybrid sorghum for seed. At present there is no surface irrigation
development in the SRBC command, while development is partial and incomplete
below the Mannair Dam in the SRS command.  Upstream of the Mannair Dam the
major irrigation network is nearly completed on about 120,000 ha and is under
construction on a further 45,000 ha. However, in these areas, because of the
poor design of the minors and field channels, deficient control structures, the
absence of lining except for the main canal, and the lack of effective opera-
tional control, tail enders on the distributaries do not receive an adequate
irrigation service and the lower-lying areas by the head and middle reaches
of the distributaries get waterlogged.
Agricultural Support Services
42.     Agricultural Extension and Research.  The Agriculture Department is
responsible for extension work in the project area. The IDA-assisted Training
and Visit system of agricultural extension, which began in Andhra Pradesh in
1974 under the AP Composite Irrigation Project (Ln 1751-IN), was extended
statewide in 1982 under the AP Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 1219-IN).
The ratio of staff coverage for extension work averages one Village Extension
Officer (VEO) per 1,500 farmers, but coverage is even less intensive in parts
of the proposed project area. Moreover, VEOs require more training to deal
with problems encountered by farmers under irrigated farming conditions. The
extension service coverage in the upstream 165,000 ha of the SRS scheme is
adequate with VEO/farmer ratios of about 1:800. It would however, be required
to develop appropriate farming systems and technologies to meet the demands of
both irrigated and rainfed farming conditions.
43.     The principal institution conducting agricultural research in the
project area is the AP Agricultural University in Hyderabad. Under the First
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP I; Credit 855-IN), a Zonal
Research Station was established for the Rayalaseama region through an expan-
sion of the existing Nandyal Research Station, and a new zonal station was set
up to cover the Telengana region. Both research stations are fully staffed and
are in the process of initiating research programs to serve their respective
regions. In support of the proposed project, the scope and direction of this
research would be further strengthened with funds provided under the recently
approved NARP II Project (Credit 1569-IN) to further refine appropriate tech-
nologies to serve the needs of irrigated agriculture (para. 61).
44.     Agricultural Inputs.  The seed, fertilizer and pesticide marketing
system is well developed in the project area, as elsewhere in the State. There
are sufficient well organized private and public suppliers of fertilizers
within easy reach of farmers. Seeds are supplied through private growers who
produce good quality hybrid sorghum, cotton, and groundnut seeds. The main
users of pesticides are cotton and paddy farmers.



-14-
45.     Agricultural Credit.  The State-owned commercial banks, and cooperative
and land development banks provide agricultural credit. Their network is
adequate to service the project areas. Cooperative banks provide short and
medium term credit to farmers, and are organized on a three-tier basis with the
AP State Cooperative Bank as the apex bank at the State level, followed by a
number of central cooperative banks at the district level, and numerous primary
cooperative credit societies at the village leveL. Long term credit (up to 15
years) is provided by the State Land Development Bank (SLDB) which operates
through branches and affiliated offices located in sub-districts. Recovery
performance of the primary cooperative credit societies is at present about
75Z, while for the SLDB, it was about 90% in 1983/84.
46.     Marketing, Processing and Sto'rage.  Wholesale marketing is regulated
under the Agricultural Produce Market Act (1965). The provision of marketing
facilities has kept pace with increasing production. Excess rice produced
within the State is either procured by COI agencies or bought by private
traders. Pulses and groundnuts find a ready market. Processing facilities
in the project area are adequate. Rice husking is a well developed cottage
and large-scale industry, and high-capacity modern solvent plants for process-
ing groundnuts are growing in number. Most large towns, including Warangal in
the SRS area, have plants to process maize into starch and oil. Cotton ginning
facilities are adequate in the SRS area, but not in the SRBC area. However,
the private sector could be expected to provide the necessary ginning units
when cotton growing becomes significant in the region, as previously
experienced in other areas. Storage facilities are provided in the public
sector by the State Warehousing Corporation, the Central Warehousing
Corporation, and the State Marketing Federation. Some cooperatives also have
their own storage facilities. In addition, many private grain and produce
merchants' stores are available.
Bank Group Strategy and Previous Lending for Irrigation in Andhra Pradesh
47.     The Bank Group's strategy for the agricultural sector in States such
as Andhra Pradesh is to support the Government's efforts to increase both
rainfed and irrigated production and productivity in order to accelerate
economic growth. This calls for the provision of: (i) assistance to agricul-
tural extension and research aimed at increasing farm productivity and the
income of farmers by simultaneously addressing constraints to the generation of
new agricultural technology and the dissemination of the results of research to
farmers; (ii) credit to enable farmers to finance on-farm investments; and
(iii) irrigation to enable multiple cropping and higher yields. These three
fields of assistance are interlinked. The provision of irrigation in
particular, considerably increases the demand for extension and credit
services. It helps to open the way to the introduction of new varieties and
crops and the use of improved farming practices, thus requiring intensive
support by extension/research. Also, improved farming practices cost more and
therefore require improved credit facilities. The State of Andhra Pradesh has
benefited considerably as a result of this strategy. Its extension and
research efforts are being assisted through the provision of IDA funding for
NARP I and II (Cr. 855-IN and Cr. 1569-IN) and the AP Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1219-IN) which would lend support to the achievement of the objec-



-15-
tives of the proposed project (paras. 43 and 61). The credit requirements of
AP farmers for on-farm developments have been continuously supported under a
general line of credit through a series of Agriculture Refinance Development
Corporation (now named NABARD) Projects, and will continue to benefit through
the recently approved NABARD Credit Project.
48.     The Bank Group's assistance to irrigation in AP has focused on (i) the
continued introduction of improved technology through better design and con-
struction standards; (ii) improved operation and maintenance; (iii) effective
water management; and (iv) modernization of existing irrigation systems. A
significant contribution has been made to the development of AP's irrigation
sector by Bank Group participation in a number of projects. The Pochampad
Irrigation Project (Credit 268-IN, 1971, US$39 million), since renamed the
Sriramasagar Project, supported works to complete the Sriramasagar dam and
develop a part of its command area. It achieved its primary objectives of
inter alia, (i) bringing under irrigation 100,000 ha of land; (ii) intensifying
agriculture in a area which had been dependent upon uncertain rainfall; and
(iii) enabling high yielding varieties of rice and maize to be introduced.
(Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) No. 3499). The Codavari Barrage
Project (Credit 532-IN 1975, US$45 million) assisted in the replacement of a
century-old weir by a modern barrage to enable the diversions and the distribu-
tion network in the Godavari delta to go on functioning. The Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project (AP I; LN 1251-IN,
US$145 million), which was approved in 1976, hastened the construction of the
canal network and thereby the utilization of water impounded in the
Nagarjunasagar reservoir, and extended the water distribution network down to
the farm. To minimize seepage losses and to achieve better water control, the
project provided for a major canal lining component. The Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of the project was extensively reformulated in 1979/80. The reformula-
tion provided for more lining of major canals, distributaries and minors than
originally envisaged; introduction of a rigid water allocation system to enable
full irrigation of the project area; and a comprehensive system of flow
measurements to further refine and trace the utilization of water releases.
With respect to cost recovery within the project area, the average assessment
of water charges is about Rs 60/ha. However, collection amounts to
approximately 58Z of assessments. In addition to water charges, GOAP intro-
duced a betterment Levy to cover a portion of the capital costs of AP I. This
levy was subsequently challenged in the courts and its collection suspended.
As a partial substitute, GOAP imposed a special land tax of Rs 500/ha in 1976.
However, recoveries under this tax have been negligible. Consequently, under
the proposed project GOAP has agreed to substantially increase revenues through
a doubling of direct water charges (from Rs 60/ha to Rs 120/ha) by
May 30, 1986, (para. 71).
49.     The main lessons learned from the Bank Group's involvement in irriga-
tion projects in AP are: (i) the need to line the main canal at the time of
construction (delaying lining disrupts production and is consequently resisted
by farmers); (ii) the precautions which should be taken when allocating water
in temporary surplus (i.e., during early stages of development); (iii) the need
to correctly implement localization procedures (para. 67); (iv) the difficul-
ties inherent in the inability to recover ir-v.stment costs through a betterment



-16-
levy or special land taxes (this has also been the experience elsewhere in
India); and (v) the need for a reliable and equitable water supply as a precon-
dition to increased cost recovery through direct charges.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.     The project was appraised in March/April 1985.  Negotiations were held
in Washington in January 1986, with the Government of India represented by a
delegation coordinated by Mr. Sumit Bose, Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project" (No. 5883-IN, dated February 27,
1986) is being circulated separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Rationale and Objectives
51.     Past Bank Group involvement in the irrigation sector in AP has been
focussed on the introduction of improved design and construction standards and
on ensuring the timely execution of projects. AP is presently in the process
of modernizing the planning, design, implementation and operation of develop-
ment projects in the sector. This process calls for changes in established
norms and deeply ingrained practices to ensure the achievement of a more effec-
tive allocation and management of resources. The most innovative feature of
the proposed change would be the introduction of improved system operation
procedures which would ensure a reliable supply of water to farmers. Continued
Bank Group support to fully establish and consolidate the use of the new proce-
dures is critical to the provision of a reliable and equitable water supply to
farmers throughout the State. The proposed project includes an appropriate mix
of ongoing and new irrigation development works aimed at raising agricultural
production and farm incomes through the expansion of irrigated areas and the
more efficient utilization of available water supplies in existing systems.
Toward this end, the project would assist in the further development of the SRS
scheme, and finance the greater part of the SRBC scheme, focusing on the intro-
duction of improved design and operation principles to ensure a reliable and
equitable irrigation service to farmers in the command areas.
Project Description
52.     The project would encompass the SRBC (65,000 ha) and SRS (328,000 ha)
commands. The main project components for SRBC would be the construction of:
(i) about 50 km of the SRBC Canal from the Banakacherla Regulator to the
Gorakallu Aqueduct; (ii) the Gorakallu Aqueduct (about 3.5 km); and (iii) about
km 100 of the SRBC canal beyond the aqueduct. In SRS, the project would:
(i) upgrade and complete km 0-146 of conveyance works of the Kakatiya Canal
Comnand (165,000 ha) up to the Mannair dam; (ii) complete on-going works and
construct new conveyance works on km 146-267 (about 120 km) of the Kakatiya
Canal Command (163,000 ha); and (iii) excavate the tail end section of the
Kakatiya Canal from km 267-284 (about 18 km). The following components would
be common to both subprojects: (i) block development of about 65,000 ha in the
SRBC command area, and the modernization of 165,000 ha and new development of
163,000 ha in the SRS area; (ii) the construction of a feeder and rural road



-17-
network of about 260 km in SRBC and 900 km in SRS; (iii) the provision of
training facilities and training for professional and support staff, and
farmers; (iv) supplementary provisions for the rehabilitation of oustees from
Srisailam (SRBC scheme) and Nannair (SRS scheme) reservoir sites; and
(v) monitoring and evaluation; technical services and studies in support of
perspective planning for future irrigation development in the State.
Detailed Features
53.     Canal Construction.  SRBC, which originates at the Banakacherla
Regulator, would be nearly 12 meters deep at the offtake point, to enable a
minimum of 750 cusecs to be drawn from the Srisailam Reservoir at the end of
the cropping season (March). Beyond the Regulator, the canal would consist
of two parts:  the first, between km 53.46 and km 112.73, would command 41,000
ha in 11 blocks each served by its own distributary, and the second, between km
112.73 and km 153, would serve a command of about 24,000 ha. Under SRS, on the
first 146 km section, the banks of the Kakatiya Canal (8,600 cusecs capacity)
would be raised and lined to enable peak water requirements to be delivered to
the entire scheme which includes the Pochampad Project (para. 48).  On the next
three segments of the Canal (about km 146-285), the following works would be
completed:  (i) the lining and construction of several distributary offtake
structures from the Nannair Dam where the canal originates to about km 234 (by
Warangal town); (ii) works not yet contracted including lining from about
km 234-267; and (iii) the section from about km 267-285 which would be
excavated to serve as an escape for water into the Akheru river.
54.     Block Development and Upgrading.  Each irrigation block would include
the following works: (i) distributary and minor canals; (ii) field channels
leading to 8 ha units; (iii) farm roads; and (iv) drains. Collector drains
from each block, with field drains connected to them would be designed to
evacuate a 10-year intensity storm within 72 hours. In the Kakatiya command,
distributaries and minors would be lined, additional conveyance channels would
be constructed as required, and development of the irrigation blocks for
165,000 ha would be completed. The surface drainage system would connect to
the minor tanks thereby augmenting their water supply.
55.     Feeder Road Network.  A feeder and rural road network of about 260 km
in SRBC and 900 km in SRS would be provided through the construction of new
roads or upgrading of existing ones. Their maintenance would be by the Roads
and Building Branch of the Public Works Department. To ensure that plAnning,
design and construction of the road component would progress unhindered, an
assurance was obtained from GOAP that by April 30, 1987, and thereafter by
April 30 of each subsequent year, GOAP would submit to IBRD/IDA for review its
plans for the roads to be constructed in the distributary commands scheduled
for development in the following construction season along with design
specifications and cost estimates.
56.     Communication and Equipment.  A comprehensive telecommunication network
would be provided in the SRS area with substations at all major canal offtakes
and other key points. A simpler system would link key points in the SRBC area.
An assurance was obtained that GOI would promptly, as required, issue all
necessary authorizations and permits to enable the installation and operation
of a telecommunication network by GOAP to serve both schemes. Funds have also



-18-
been provided for communicat.ons equipment; equipment for the operation and
maintenance of project works, farm and canal service roads; computation equip-
ment for design work and operational control; and training equipment.
57.     Training.  Pre-service and in-service training of over 1,000 engineers
in the design, construction and operation and maintenance M0&M) of irrigation
systems would be provided by the Water and Land Management Training and
Research Institute (WALAMTARI) near Hyderabad. The project would finance the
cost of this training and improvements to WALAMTARI's facilities. Training of
semi-professional irrigation staff (e.g., canal inspectors, engineering
technicians), Chairmen of Outlet and Minor Canal Committees and farmers would
take place in institutions within the project area. One training center would
be established in the SRBC area and three in the SRS area. An additional
center in the SRS area would be completed. Contact farmers selected by the
Agricultural Extension Service would undergo training in on-farm water manage-
ment and distribution practices. VEOs and Subject Matter Specialists
(irrigation) would also be trained to demonstrate field layout and land
preparation methods on farmers' lands. GOAP's training programs for engineer-
ing staff, support staff, and Chairmen of the various farmers' committees would
be reviewed by IBRD/IDA and thereafter implemented taking into account any
comments received.
58.     Rehabilitation.  There are two problems connected with the implementa-
tion of the resettlement/rehabilitation component of previous projects not
financed by the Bank which have been addressed in the context of the proposed
project. The project also addresses a third problem of providing for the
satisfactory resettlement/rehabilitation of families directly affected by the
proposed project. The first problem relates to the construction of the
Srisailam dam and reservoir site which would supply water to the project-
financed SRBC scheme. Site acquisition for the Srisailam reservoir commenced
in 1974, and project affected families were fully compensated, but permitted to
continue to occupy their villages and farms. With site flooding in 1981, 1/
they were finally required to move, but the compensation based on 1974 land
values was inadequate to buy replacement properties at 1981 prices. COAP has
provided the affected families with additional financial compensation to
alleviate the hardship caused by this problem. It however, recognizes the need
for further relief through the provision of additional amenities. Accordingly,
GOAP would conduct a survey in the villages where most of the displaced
families from Srisailam have moved to determine what additional social
amenities (e.g., schools, clinics, drinking water supplies) are required in
order to provide them with at least the same level of services they enjoyed
before being moved. The findings of the survey would be incorporated in a
program to be implemented under the project.
59.     The second problem relates to the Mannair dam which was completed in
1985 and would supply water to the project-financed SRS scheme. When the
reservoir is eventually filled, it will submerge 7,365 ha, including 16
villages, and affect the livelihcod of about 13,800 families. Unlike the case
of Srisailam, resettlement is still in progress here, affording an opportunity
1/ About 27,600 families have been affected.



-19-
for providing rehabilitation assistance to the affected families. In addition
to conducting a survey to determine what additional social amenities would be
required for the families in Mannair, OOAP would also undertake a survey to
determine their specific vocational training needs and to formulate a program
to assist them in at least regaining the standard of living they were enjoying
before their displacement.
60.     Finally, COAP would alco determine the number of families who would
be directly affected by the proposed project and ensure that they would be
provided with land of comparable productive potential, vocational training or
stable employment in accordance with their individual preferences. The
preparation of a Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program satisfactory to the
IBRD/IDA by COAP, which would incorporate the specific details of the assis-
tance to be provided to each of the three categories of displaced persons
referred to above, is a condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness. The proposed
Program would include an Action Plan and a timetable for implementing the
Program taking into consideration the results of the surveys to be undertaken.
61.     Agricultural Extension and Research Support.  For the proposed project,
GOAP would by October 1, 1987, designate the right bank commands of the SRS
subproject as two agricultural extension units. To meet the needs of the SRBC
subproject when the proposed irrigation works are commissioned, GOAP would by
October 1, 1988, set up a similar agricultural extension unit. The organiza-
tional and staffing arrangements of the proposed units would be satisfactory to
the IBRD/IDA. The proposed Training and Visit system of agriculture to be set
up for both subprojects would be based on the past experience under AP I which
has demonstrated that extension work in irrigated areas is more effective if
the ratio of VEOs to farmers is no more than about 1:800. Funds for the three
new units would be provided under the ongoing A.P. Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1219-IN). Adaptive research support would be provided for the
SRBC and SRS subprojects through the zonal research stations in Nandyal and
Jagtial respectively (para. 43). For this purpose, the AP Agricultural
University would furnish its research proposals to the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research by December 31, :986. To provide the Jagtial staff with
adequate space and sufficiently representative soil types on which to work, at
least two small substations (one on vertisols (black) and one on alfisols
(red)) would be established with funds provided under NARP II (Credit 1569-IN).
62.     Landshaping.  To ensure the availability of integrated landshaping
plans, including the proper siting and alignment of field drains, the
Irrigation Department (ID) would prepare comprehensive plans to develop entire
outlet commands, including landshaping required for each field in consultation
with the farmers involved. Loans are available for executing these works
whether farmers do their own work or engage the services of the AP
Agro-Industries Corporation which is active in this field throughout the State.
It would be essential to ensure that farmers' landshaping efforts conform to
ID's overall plan. The staff necessary to assist in the planning work involved
would be provided under the proposed project.
63.     Organization and Management.  The primary responsibility for implemen-
tation of the project would rest with the Irrigation Department (ID) of GOAP,
which would plan, design and construct the subprojects and be responsible for
their operation and maintenance. The Secretary, Irrigation administers ID



-20-
through an Engineer-in-Chief, to whom nine Chief Engineers (CE) report
directly. There is a separate CE each for the SRS and SRBC subprojects. The
present design and construction organizations of the CEs heading the two sub-
projects would require strengthening to cope with the expected workload. At
its peak, the SRBC subproject would require a total of 327 engineers; the SRS
1,472. An assurance was obtained from GOAP that it would: (i) sanction and
fill staff positions in accordance with an organizational plan and staffing
schedule in consultation with IBRD/IDA; and (ii) train such staff to implement
the project and to efficiently operate and maintain the project works.
64.     While ID has overall responsibility for the irrigation sector, the
operation and maintenance of three irrigation schemes (Nagarjunasagar,
Sriramasagar and Tungabhadra) below the chak outlet, as well as agricultural
extension work in the command areas of these schemes has been with the
Irrigation Utilization and Command Area Development Department (IU/CADD) which
is headed by an officer of the rank of Secretary. In March 1985, IU/CADD was
placed under the GOAP Minister of Agriculture 1/ who assumed overall respon-
sibility for the coordination of support for irrigation work for the above
three schemes. The division of responsibility for irrigation work between ID
and IU/CADD does not, however, provide for effective manageme t of the irriga-
tion sector. Moreover, the arrangements for the control of water deliveries,
scheduling and utilization between headworks and chak outlets is cumbersome.
3OAP has therefore decided to bring ID and IU/CADD together under a single
administrative control. The combined department would be made up of an
Irrigation Wing responsible for all construction work and a Command Area
Development and O&M Wing which would look after O&M of water delivery systems
and related matters. For this purpose, GOAP plans to appoint a Merger
Cosmittee to determine the exact allocation of responsibilities between the
newly established wings, lines of command, etc., when the proposed merger takes
place by April 1, 1986.
65.     With the integration of ID and IU/CADD, changes would be required in
the constitution and functions of the Command Area Development Board which is
responsible for formulating programs to be implemented by the Command Area
Development Authority (CADA) Working Committees for the above mentioned schemes
which includes the SRS subproject (Sriramasagar scheme). Changes would also be
necessary in the organization and functions of the CADA Working Committee for
the SRS subproject. The Committee which includes the CADA Administrator of the
SRS subproject, would be required to monitor the progress of block development
and all other works and activities pertaining to this subproject. By April 30,
1987, GOAP would also establish a similar Working Committee for the SRBC sub-
project which would include in its membership the CADA Administrator of the
scheme.
1/ In June 1985, IU/CADD's extension functions were transferred from the
Secretary, IU/CADD, to the Secretary of Agriculture, COAP, Ministry of
Agriculture.



-21-
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
66.     The Project Preparation and Monitoring (PPM) Unit of the combined ID
would be strengthened and would, among other tasks, be responsible for
(i) monitoring the physical and financial progress of project works including
water deliveries, groundwater levels, crop data collection, cropping pattern
changes and the evaluation of project works; (ii) monitoring quality control
activities; (iii) long-range planning of the irrigation sector in the State;
(iv) carrying out or supervising studies by consultants; and (v) commissioning
and supervising the execution of works related to the rehabilitation of dis-
placed persons. For this purpose, an assurance was obtained that COAP would by
December 31, 1986, submit to IBRD/IDA for review and comments its detailed
plans for: (i) strengthening the PPM Unit by June 30, 1987; and (ii) for
carrying out M&E activities under the project. GOAP would thereafter implement
such plans taking into account any comments received.
Water Management
67.     Irrigated areas in AP are designated as "irrigated wet" and "irrigated
dry" under a system of water management known as "localization". While all
crops may be grown in irrigated wet areas, rice and sugarcane are specifically
banned in irrigated dry areas to ensure that adequate supplies of water reach
downstream areas. To ensure an equitable and reliable water supply, and even-
tually to serve all commandable lands in the SRS scheme, it would be necessary
to discontinue the delivery of the preferentially larger amounts of surface
water to "irrigated wet"' areas. To enable this change to be effected, an
assurance was obtained that GOAP would, by October 1, 1986, introduce and
thereafter maintain a water management plan in the SRS subproject area that
would provide water only for irrigated dry regimes. In the SRBC subproject
area, a similar plan would be introduced not later than two years before the
expected date for the delivery of water. Under the plan, water releases would
not be sufficient to enable the cultivation of rice in the SRBC subproject and
in the SRS subproject downstream of the Mannair Dam. However, farmers would be
free to grow rice if they so desire by supplementing surface water supplies
with water from their own wells.
68.     Both the SRS and SRBC schemes would be managed as "utilities".
Initially the schemes will supply water down to the 40 ha outlet, according to
predetermined schedules arranged in consultation with farmers' representatives.
Below the outlet distribution would be organized by the Outlet Committees on
warabundi 1/ schedules. It is expected that water users organizations would
undertake increasing responsibility over time; they may ultimately buy water
in bulk from the utility for sale to farmers, collect water charges, etc.
Since GOAP's ID has no previous experience with structured system operation
and design, there is provision for the hiring of consultants to assist ID with
the preparation of the necessary designs and the formulation of operating
rules.
11 A system of rotational distribution of limited irrigation supplies.



-22-
Cost Recovery
69.     Statewide water charges vary from Rs 75/ha for "irrigated wet" crops,
to Rs 60/ha for "irrigated dry" crops. In addition to direct water charges,
there is also a 4X sales tax on marketed agricultural produce. Indirect char-
ges constitute COAP's most important means of cost recovery for its irrigation
projects. Water charges presently collected cover about 60% of the total
annual O&M expenditures, and the total revenue (direct and indirect charges) is
about Rs 110/ha which is about double the present O&M annual expenditure.
However, the present level of budgetary allocation for O&M (Rs 50/ha) is less
than the sum required to provide effective O&M estimated at about Rs 150/ha.
70.     The main factors which inhibit increasing the level and improving
recovery of water charges, are the unreliable and inequitable water supply in
most of the irrigation projects in the State, since farmers are unwilling to
pay for a poor service. Water charges are uniform throughout the State, and
thus their overall level has to take into account the repayment capacity of
those farmers who benefit the least from irrigation (usually the tailenders).
In order to substantially increase the level and improve the recovery of water
charges, the reliability and equity of the irrigation service must be improved
which is the main focus of this project.
71.     Under the project, GOAP would be expected to take measures to improve
both the level and collection of water charges. Towarc;s this end, COAP has
already issued a Gazette Notification (August 1, 1985), announcing its inten-
tion to double present water charges to about Rs 120/ha per irrigated dry crop,
starting with the 1986/87 crop season. Assurances were obtained that all
action necessary to implement the revised charges Statqwide would be completed
by May 30, 1986. Within the project area, the average assessment of water
charges is about Rs 60/ha per crop. After the proposed doubling of water
charges and with the improved irrigation service and increased cropping inten-
sity under the project, the water charges' assessment would reach about Rs
1801ha per year as against the estimated level of annual expenditure for effec-
tive O&M of about Rs 150/ha. For the longer-term, GOAP would: (i) constitute
an interdepartmental Water Charges Review Committee (WCRC) by March 31, 1987,
which would conduct a review of the level of water charges and water related
charges, and the method of their assessment and collection under terms of
reference agreed with the IBRD/IDA; (ii) submit a report summarizing the
results and recommendations of the committee to the IBRD/IDA for its review and
comments by September 30, 1987; (iii) and taking into account IBRD/IDA
comments, implement such recommendations. Thereafter, commencing July 1, 1989,
GOAP would require WCRC to review and adjust water charges and water related
charges at least once every two years, in order to ensure that the charges
cover full operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable portion of capital
costs, taking into account farmers' repayment capacity.
Project Cost and Financing
72.     Total project costs are estimated at US$475.8 million including about
US$22.8 million of taxes and duties. Foreign exchange cost3 are estimated at
US$76.4 million (about 16% of total costs). The estimated base costs are in
January 1986 prices. Physical contingencies account for about US$33.6 million,
while price contingencies of about US$106.4 million are based on expected



-23-
annual price increases for local expenditures of 7% for 1986/87 and 1987/88,
7.5% for 1988/89, 7.7% for 1989/90, 7.6% for 1990/91 and 4.5% for 1991/93.
Foreign price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of 7% for 1986
and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5Z for 1991/93.
73.     The proposed Bank loan of US$131 million and IDA credit of SDR 127.5
million (US$140 million equivalent), would finance about 60% of total cost,
net of taxes and duties, including a 100% of foreign expenditures and about
49Z of local costs. The balance would be borne by GOI and GOAP.
Procurement and Disbursement
74.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items would be procured
under the project. Civil works, including contingencies, for the main and
branch canal systems would cost about US$378.8 million. About 14 contracts
totalling approximately US$252.3 million, would exceed US$6.0 million 'each and
would be let on the basis of IBRD/IDA international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. Eligible domestic bidders would be granted a 7-1/2% martin of
preference in bid evaluation. A further 28 contracts (below US$6.0 million)
amounting to about US$78 million, and numerous smaller contracts (below US$1.0
million) amounting to about US$44.0 million would be scattered over large
areas, would not be of interest to foreign bidders, and would therefore be Let
on the basis of GOAP's local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which are
satisfactory to the IBRD/IDA. The balance of civil works (US$4.5 million)
would be executed departmentally as they are not likely to be readily con-
tracted out.
75.     Equipment and vehicles costing about US$4.3 million would be grouped
in bidding packages each costing US$100,000 or more, and procured through ICB.
Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Light equipment and small
vehicles (about US$1.3 million) of various types would be required under the
project. These would be purchased in small ouantities over several years. To
ensure the prompt provision of maintenance and the availability of spares these
items would be procured under GOAP's LCB procedures which are satisfactory to
the IBRD/IDA. All bid packages for works estimated to cost US$500,000 or more,
and for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, would be subject to
IBRD/IDA prior review. The remaining contracts (about 20% in value) would be
subject to IBRD/IDA post-action review.
76.     The proceeds of the Loan/Credit would be disbursed against: (i) 65%
of expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100% of expenditures for directly
imported vehicles and equipment, 100% of the ex-factory costs of locally
manufactured vehicles and equipment; or 70% of the cost of vehicles and equip-
ment procured locally; and (c) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance,
training, rehabilitation and resettlement, and monitoring and evaluation.
Disbursements for civil works would be against statements of expenditure
itemized by project component. Disbursement for chak development work would be
only upon receipt of certificates of completion of the field work.
Disbursements for payments of less than Rs 300,000 for works (including depart-
mental works), or Rs 150,000 for goods; on-farm development; training;
engineering research; monitoring and evaluation, the costs of special surveys
and rehabilitation services would be against statements of expenditures.



-24-
Documentation for these works would be retained by GOAP and made available for
inspection by IBRD/IDA review missions. Full documentation would be required
for all other disbursements. The expected rate of disbursement follows the
typical disbursement profile in the Indian Irrigation Sector. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1993, and disbursements by
June 30, 1994.
Benefits, Justification, and Risks
77.     Quantifiable benefits from the project would derive from an effective
increase (taking into account double cropping) in the irrigated area of the SRS
scheme by 163,000 ha and the SRBC scheme by 65,000 ha. In the SRS scheme, the
annual incremental agricultural production at full project development is
expected to be about 352,000 tons of foodgrain, 129,000 tons of cotton and
about 93,000 tons of groundnuts. The total value of agricultural production is
estimated to increase by about Rs 1,052 million (US$81 million) per year.
About 80,200 farm families would benefit directly from this subproject. It
would generate approximately 29,800 farm and 7,500 non-farm jobs.
Corresponding figures for the SRBC Scheme show an increase in the production of
cotton by 62,000 tons and groundnuts by 37,000 tons, resulting in an increase
in the total annual value of agricultural production by about Rs 600 million
(US$46 million). Approximately 20,900 farm families would benefit directly
from the subproject which would provide about 18,000 farm and 4,700 non-farm
jobs. Project construction work on both schemes would provide employment to
about 15,400 unskilled laborers over a seven and a half year period. As a
result of the project, farm incomes in the SRBC area are expected to increase
to about Rs 10,200/ha and the incidence of absolute poverty 1/ among farm
families would be reduced from about 75% to about 25%. The corresponding
impact due to the SRS scheme would be a decline in the Level of absolute
poverty from about 85% overall to about 22% in irrigated areas and 30% in
rainfed areas.
78.     The economic rate of return (ERR) based on the full development of the
77,000 ha which is the potential SRBC scheme area is about 20Z and, for the
development of the 203,000 ha of the SRS Scheme, about 23Z. The overall ERR
for both schemes combined is about 22%. The results of the sensitivity
analysis carried out to determine how deviation from the main assumptions,
including incremental benefit and construction costs, would affect the ERR,
indicate that only large deviations of construction costs or expected benefits
could make the schemes economically unviable (para. 79). Should GOAP delay the
completion of the remaining 12,000 ha of the SRBC scheme and 40,000 ha of the
SRS scheme not financed under the project beyond 1996, the overall ERR would
decline to about 19%.
79.     A Likely project risk is that benefits could be significantly affected
if COAP encounters difficulty in enforcing water allocation and management
procedures in areas to be brought under irrigation to ensure their cultivation
as irrigated dry areas. However, due to the Government being fully committed
to this objective, having successfully implemented a similar program under the
1/ Defined as Rs 6,850 per family (5 persons) per year.



-25-
AP I Project, there is little likelihood of this happening. Moreover, farmers
in disadvantaged areas of SRS could be expected to exert sufficient pressure on
GOAP to ensure an equitable allocation of water through a phasing out of the
designation of "irrigated wet" areas. A second risk is that GOAP may face a
budgetary shortfall in executing the project on account of a cutback in its
overall Seventh Plan allocation from GOI. To avoid this possibility, the
project implementation period has been extended from five to seven and a half
years, thus reducing the funding required for the project during the Seventh
Plan period from Rs 550 Crores proposed by COAP, to about Rs 380 Crores which
is consistent with its Seventh Plan allocation of Rs 1,182 Crores for major and
medium irrigation schemes. The balance of funding required for the project
would be provided under the State's Eighth Plan. Assurances were obtained that
GOAP would provide the necessary funding to complete the project as planned.
Finally, there is the risk that it would not be possible to store water in the
Kannair reservoir site if the villagers refuse to vacate the area above its
dead storage level. However, the risk of thie happening is considered accept-
able since the resettlement of affected families is already in progress with
additional provision being made for them to receive vocational training under
the proposed project. Moreover, should the need arise, water could still be
conveyed down the bed of the Mannair river and be diverted to the lower section
of the Kakatiya Canal to serve the needs of the SRS subproject. However, under
this scenario, the resultant lack of provision for storage water may restrict
the future expansion of the comuand area of SRS - an expansion that is outside
the timeframe of this project.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
80.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan/Credit would comply with the
Articles of the Bank and the Association. I recomend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 27, 1986



ANNU 1
T^ANL  o-                                       Page 1 of 6
US?T                    (tISO  M"    LITiATE) A
SCueT             ALW ISCO4              Ki(D   INCOW
19.ak      1ig7ok  CUSm &           ASIA & voCmnc          AWL& I*ACIlC
ANA (am" go. U)
TOTAL                             3287.0      2287.       3237.0
AOUCUL7URAL                       1723.5      710.5      1311.4
Gn u on)                           *           ..        2a0.0              273.3                    1011.1
C(ULOMM  or oIL uoiVL.ur)           79.0       113.0       zss.o              28s.7                    s6s.,
PMPAIUUM-TSAR (TOUSADs) 438969.0   34730.0    733224.0
MM  POPUTIO5t CZ rt ToTAUL          13.0        13.3        24;.               22.3                     33.9
PWrUIATION PIOJKCYIOu
POPULATION IN 130 2000 C43Li.)                           994.4
STATROSA   PONUULA     CNlL)                           1700.0
POuuAno0 ItIW                                              1.0
pRO SQ. M.                       12.3        1".0        223.0              172.8                     386.s
M  SQ. IN. AC. LAD               244.0       307.5        335.              353.3                    1331.2
PWU.ATION ANE STIOCTURS CZ)
0-14 Yu                          4068        42.7        39.S               33.3                      38.2
13-0  us                          34.4        34.1        3.                39".4                     37.7
3*3 MD Al0U                        4.          3.0         3.9                4.3                       3.5
POPUMAIO  GROWN RA  (C)
TOTAL                              1.3         2.3         2.2                2.0                       2.3
mum                                2.5         3.3         3.9                4.1                       4.1
cORs  KuM LATZ (Ma 1110S)           47.7        o1.3        33.9               27.3                      30.1
CO  DRATN atm CP  TAM)              23.9        17.3        12.5               10.2                      9.4
CROSS RWIDII   DATE                  2.9         2.3         2.3                1.7                       1.9
7DJUL! PLANNIN
ACC uT0RS. AhSL    tNoms)         04.0      3752.0      "20.0 L.
CZ or AU    1 )                   ..         11.7        32.0               49.4                     30.3
lWO 6AD MATM
INS OF POOD PROD. PtR CAPITA
CL909-71-100)                      9*.0        102.0       113.0              110.0                    124.4
CALOUs  CZ or )OQUUIIIS)          98.0        91.0        92.0              106.3                     115.7
RlOTZIn  CtAIU    DAN)            30.0        50.0        30.0               00.1                     00.3
Of 10IC  AMAL MD PUE            17.0        13.0        13.0 j4            14.4                      14.1
CELD (ACS 1-4)  4111 RATZ           24.3        19.7        11.0               7.3                       7.2
LIM  PCSCr. AT U112  (1*)           Q2.2        47.3        34.9               00.3                    60.6
ZINFAT "M3?. Km  CPU TIONS)        13.0       139.0       9*30                N.2                      64.9
ACCSS TO SF WMATS (P0)
TOTAL                              ..         17.0        41.0 IC            4.2                       *6.0
nS                                  .         60.0        77.0               77.2                     57.6
RURAL                              ..          6.0        31.0 3C 24.6                                37.1
ACCSS TO   CTA 0159041
(Z Or POPULATI)
TOTAL                              *          18.0         6.0 /e             7.3                      50.1
lm                                 ..         33.0        27.0 7;            2.3                      52.9
RURAL                  ..         ~~~~        ~~~~~1.0  1.0       5 .3                     44.7
POPMATION   PRMSICIW               830.0      4390.0      390.0             3313.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NUSIN  P510             10960.0 7f 4o20.0           0.0             4 90.7                   2464.6
7PO. nl  SPITAL 3O
TOTAL                           2130.0      1030.0      1290.0 to          1139.2                    1112.1
OR                                 ..          ..        370.A             2".1                      651.4
RIUAL                              ..          ..      10410.0             6 602S.2                 23Sb.9
AO    ONS P  IDSTL Er                ..          ..          ..               52.3                      41.1
AVEUM  SIZK ao HUSCHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6
Rna                                S.2         5.0
RUtAL                              *.2         s.e
AWIR NO. OF PtEsUi
TOTAL                              2.6         2.6
ORDON                              2.0         2.8
RAL                                2.0         2.4
PERCNTAIOF or MLtYM WM  HIZCT.
TAL                                ..          ..
URS*'
RURAL                              ..



S_A *L * 34                                     Page 2 of 6
QII~~~~~~~~~DUc  0861  OCH IOWTD 334 ) b
mm                  LW          ZSCOH D  T1 1A     oIm
9itoLb     1is70L  :     7RtLk-        MIA & PACIFIC         ABU & PACIFC
ADPJUST UNOUIW(T RATMIS
PWuAv..   TOTAL                    61.0       73.0         79.0               92.6                     100.7
HAI                     80.0       90.0         93.0              105.5                     104.4
40.0        56.0        54.0               79.3                      97.2
SUCOUDR  TOTAL                     20.0        26.0        30.0               31.3                      47A
HALR                    30.0        36.0        39.0               40-1                      50.6
11080.1                 10.0        15.0        20.0               21.9                      44.8
VOCATIONUL CZ or S0DM)              2.8         1.0         ..                 3.2                      16.4
PUPIL-TRACWI RAY10
rIntm                              46.0       41.0         54.0 k             38.0                      30.4
110011018!                         16.0        21.0         ..                17.4                      22.2
tUAIUM     CASIWIDUM  vO        0-      6         1.1         1.4 fh             0.1                      10.1
RADIO     011SOUzD  Po                4.9        21.5        55.8              129.8                     172.9
TV    U       U                       0.0        0.0          2.9               19.8                      58.5
UrAVS      (C"DAIL  OCARAL
CUUS"  IRCLATXOU
15 11611  PfOULA?IO                 10.6        16.2        19.4 11            25.7                      65.3
Clll ANIAL AI_D CRICTEL               3.2        6.2          6.6                6.0                       3.4
TOTAL LAN Oft oc (KOB)           1951.0   219194.0   28421.0
II tLZ CPuamN                      30.7       32.5         314                33.2                      33.6
A61IcL!UU (1130111!)               74.0       74.0         71.0               69.6                      52.2
IOs         cp )o                  11.0        11.0        13.2   c           15.8                      17.9
PAlTIcIPTON  (RATZC      1C)
TTL                                42.8        40.0        31.8               41.9                      38.9
mm1                                57.0        52.4        51.7               53.6                      s0.S
PEAL                               27.3        26.9        25.3               29.1                      26.8
UIooU111C Da     CT  ATIO             1.1         1.1         1.1                1.0                       1.1
-MMO WAU
PrIc!r Of IAZ3 INCOME
3311R5 5!
gloST  32 0or U_UesOL              26.7        26.3 .        ..  
IalSST 20201 NUlWSSlIDS            51.7       48.9          .                  ..                       4S.O
L.1T 201  UO OUIIWD               4.1         6.7 7      ..                 ..                        6.4
LONS 401 0 EOIURUOLDS             13.6        17.2 T       ..                 ..                       15.5
- s cs
UTD6*TDD ASUOUJTZ 10313T! 1Timm
LRVR CMS mma CAITA)
Ua                                  ..          ..        132.0              133.9
..                                              ..        114.0              111.6                     151.9
uain wss raum m
XRRL  (CS PE CAPA)
3                                   *.          ..          ..                 ..                      177.9
NIAL                                ..          ..          ..                61.7                     164.7
STINA!5 POP. UMR   AD8MOT
lOIRE! INCW6 LXI CZ)
033*3                               ..          ..         40.3               4 *3.8                    23.5
AL                                  ..          ..         50.7               51.7                      37.8
MM *,A,A- A_
rOT AILICAUI
30Ta1
The group avrage for each indicator ar pop.latoa-welhted aritbmtic _ar. Coverage of coautrae
a    the lnietca      dapead_  on avaiXabilLty of data ad Is not unfom.
Lb   UmlAs. otbervi. noted, "De  for 1960 refer to any  ear beten 1959 and 191; "Data for 1970" betwen
1969 and 1971; and data for "Mat  eas t Ratlaat  beteen 1981 and 1983.
e   1940; /d 1977; /g 1978  /. 1962;  k 1976; lb 1979; *1 1964-65.
.m13. 1985



ANNEX 1
ragej7Fof 6
NoM  Altough Oh data ar dmraw  m  nurma smrllyJudpd doe ass auhdtate and rintb, It ehold ala h nosd dth they may not be inmatlonally
mpamblu  atmte ofdof l ea dndar_ud detom and cspl mud by dluent cDnntd. In coUnqng the dat Mh dat am. nonethlaa  eW to
dincrh wdr of maghud. Indiob tia  nd crace_rle urto   major dlluena botwn  counsdu.
l eo   m         a (I) the -  coufty gop o the Oabjes comtry ad (2) a eountry pmp with eamwbat higwwh arna  iome than the country
group of she gabjct assy eacufor "High Income'Oil UaporewtsrgupwhuMlbdd Income North Aria and Midl East"i achoen hecameofsrenpr
uoci.lituml dllsltluL In the refuece pomp data e anig ar populaton wighteid aulthmt  mes fot each adlcator and shown only when majorty
hecounth l, hagroup hdataforihat ncaor.Slnetcove ofcounumaamothWindaoa dpendsontheavalabilfIkyofdat andInotuniform.
cuidon muot beedl i relting averag stone indctor to enothbr. Thm average. ae only uful In compaing the value of one Indbior at a tine among
do country and m*rs pomp.
AREA (thoound sq.km.)                                           Cde lik Rate (pmth iad)-Number oflive birth. in the year
Total-Total surfa  armeacomprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data                                       Crud Deh Rte (per th_asd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agudrabwni-Pjtinate of aiculturl area used temporarily or       per thousnd of mid-yenr population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
pearnanmndy for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gro  Rep dxrhs  Rate-Avea   number of daughteri a woman
lie fallow, 1960,1970 and 1982 data,                            will bear in her normal rproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertilty rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)GN! per capita aetimates at current         in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prie, calulated by -smc conversion method as World         x    Pfemul--Areeepors, Aura (rthousudrj-Annual num-
fak Atlas (1931483 bfsIs); 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control device. under auspices of national
ENRGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    faminy planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,     Fudf Pluuig-Uers (pererr of mwEed weme)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuckar and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
triity) in kilograms ooil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands arepracticing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generaly wonen aged 15-49, although for
some countries contraceptive usag is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Pop1d983   Mit Yew (thouaadur)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
VrbonPopadm (ercet oftotl-Rato ofurba   to  ogal ludez of FoedPIwduediou Per Capia (1969-71 - lN)-lndex of per
LI qelati.u (petet  of nacJ-Ratio of urban to totl  apita annual production of all food commodities  Production
poulation; diffent definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excudes animal feed and seed for agiculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.     indude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead or sugar)
P-p-lari  PA*niDe                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
opdario  in yepar 2000-Tbe projection of population for 2000.  excluded) diey compris  cereals, root crops. pulis, oil seeds.
made for each economy separtely. Starting with information on   vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sx, fertility razes mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
internaional migration in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national aveage producer price weights; 1961.65, 1970, and
vwee projected at fiv-year intervals on the basis of generazed  1982 data.
asumption until the population became stationary.               Per CaFES Supply ofCalres (percen efrequiurveiet-Corput-
Statiawyrpopukouior--is one in which age- and sex-speific mor-  ed fronm calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
-lity rates have not cbanged over a long period. whie age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simulanously remained at replacement level  tion. imports kss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1) In such a popuation, the birth rate is  exclude aninal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant and the growth rate is zero. 'e stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
siz was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lelv                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popldatiou Momemna-ls the tendency for population growth to     Per Capita Supply of Prortin (gram per dy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replaemnt-klvel fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These stnndards.are lewer than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Ibp.Ati_  De1n1ty                                               average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJbn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.     *r Caita Pwteiu Suppl Rux Afiua ad Puse-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricadntral bard-Cornputed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Prpduth. Age Strctre (perceufl-Children (0-14 years). work-     Cldf (qres 1-4) Death Rate (pert ssulrj-Number uf deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years aud over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.              group in a given year For most developing countries data derived
PppladewuGrowth Rae (peraceat)-eeeal-Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Pepulatie CGowth Rae (percrmt)-wan--Annual growth rates          fe Exectanvy at BlJik (Jwars-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNX I
Page 4 of 6
at the dmt   ofof its birth wors to sy the -m   throughout It life; Hipm  ber ARad - prwy,  d scondr-TotI students n-
1960,1970 and 19133 dta.                                      roiled in prmary and secondary leve  divided by numbe  of
Lqmr M_aMe Rae (per thsmadJ-Number of Inats who die    teoche  In the correponding leveb.
before rahng o-  ye  of ag per thousnd live birth In  given
year, 1960,1970 aod 1983 deta.                                 CONSUMPnION
Amei to3W  Play (pnowel qfp          b-MI          mwS, md     Plesseg  Cmr (per dhemud populud.aI)-Passenger cars corn-
rwnu-Number of people (total, ubn, uad rural) wit reuomble     prim motor can sadng em then eight persons; excude ambul-
aess to s   water uppy (includes trated sura  watn or          ances, hearses and military vehiceL
untroeted but unconated water such u that fom  protected       Raob RetWrn (per thmuad pepu xe )-AII tpe of redve
borehole spn  atd aitary walk)a pecntae of their rep re-       for radio broadcasts to genea  publi per thousand of population;
dve population. In an urban are a public fountain or standpost  exciues un-licensd recever in countrie  and in years when
locted not more then 200 meters m au house may be considere   registrtion of rado set was In Cfact data for recet years may
as bag witn re sonable acm of that ho_us  In rural -e          not be comparable since most countrie abolise liHcenslg.
reasonable aeces would imply that the housewife or members of the
household do not have to pend a disproportionate pat of the day  TVlRuvrt^n (pe dnmvufpeqpdus.-TV rcivers for broadcat
in fetch   hef rb' wter r.                                     to general public per thousnd populatin; exdude unlicen    TV
Aens te Exras Dipew (pwest opep                                rese-i   in countrie and in yea  when registration of TV no was
ad rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) srved by  in drfct
excrete diposa as percent     of their respecdve populations.  NWspq,vP Clrculasan (Per nhe      t _adpepulsdonk-Shows the aver-
Excrete disposal may incdude the collecdon and disposal, with or  age rcuiladon of "daily genead interest newspapeC definod - a
without ttment, of human exeta and wastewater by water-        periodical pubication devoted prmarily to recording genral n
borne systems or the us of pit privies gnd similar installtions.  It is considered tobe "daily" if it appea  at lea four tim  a week.
Popu"lu. per Phpielna-fPopulation divided by number of prac-   CiPS Awal Attendnce pr Ca$n  per Yew-BDaed on the
tising physicians quaifi9e from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including adulissions to
Pyulaprljw Nursin hrse-bPopulation divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurs, assistant nurses,
practical nurm a nd nurung auxiliariee.                        LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      Tona Labor Farce (thesaub)-Economically active persons, in-
Papulerl  pgr Hospital De-d-aa. rsitan  and usrid-Plpulation   cldn  re  omad unemployed but excluding housewives.
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their repective number of    csiduing armed forces ang   ulapop of  excludinitionsin
hosoital beds availabe in public and pivate, general and spec'iiad  students, etc. coveinag populoaton of all ags.1    Definitions an
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are estbishments  vanous countries are not comparable. 1960,1970 and 1983 data
penently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments pra-  nae (uperr)-Fnale labor force as peirntage of total labor
iding principally cusodial care are not included. Rural hospital  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agrikare (perentl-Labor force in farning, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accomnmodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Industry (percestr-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
AAdnssmv per Hospital Bd-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electicity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Pi;co_km   Rate  pr           ak, m dJbnue-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as totaL, ma'e, and felmale labor force
Avre Mte of Homeha  (peon per hwusehod-toral. urban,           as pemntage of total, male and female population of al ages
andrural- A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates rcting age-sex structure ofthe population, and
may not be induded in the household for statistica purposes    long time trend. A few esmimates are from national sources
Average Nunuer of Person per Room-otal, urban, and rural-      Ecoumic Dependeny Rato-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percente of Duellags tub Eletrlcbo-teoal, ubn, and rura-       Pecte of Tota D4pabe Income (bock in cash and  ind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to perentile groups of households rnked by total house-
tage or total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Asted Enrolment Ratos                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Ptinary school - totaL mak  and femae-Gross total, male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as pentages of  E,tinmwed Abselte Poerty Inome Level (US per cap-)urbma
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rurt-Absolute poverty income leve is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of sdhol  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  Estuted Rdlive Powrty Income Lel (US per capita)-arban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rnral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prinary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agec                                                           derived from the rural level with adjusunent for higher cost of
Secnndary school - total. mcal and femac -Comnputed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmted bpopaaon &elow Absolute Povrery Incom  Leve (per-
mary instrucion; provides general, vocational, or teacher training  cent) --rban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
bistructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally clduded.
Vocational Enrollmeni (percent of secandwy)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include techniral, industrial, or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



rags 5 of 6
ECONOmIC DEYEL0wW   DATA
GMP PEMR CAPITA IN 10341S$260 It
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983/84 hi                                          ANNUAL REAI OF GROWTH (1, Conetant Prices) c/
55156-59/60  60161-64163  65166-69/70  70/71-74/75  15/76-791O0  80/Sl-82t83
US$ BUn.    2
CDP at Market Prices              189.81     100.0                   3.7          3.6          3.7         2.9          4.1          5.1
Gross Dometic Inveetnt             45.94      24.0
Grcas National Saving              43.17      22.7
Current Account Balance           -2.17       -1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)       Labor Force if   '.A. Per Worker
US$ Din.               X          _1.         2      US$   Z of National Averaxe
Agriculcura                        52.5                  35.9        172.7     70.6    304         51
Tndustry                          34.5                  23.6         31.6    12.9   1092         183
Services                           59.2                  40.5         40.3     16.5   1469        246
Total/Average                     146.2                 100.0        244.6   100.0    598        IW
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Coveranent et                              CentEGovornant
Rs. sin.           2 of CDP                    Re. Blr..    .    Sof CDP
1983/84      1983/134   1979/80-1983 84        1983/84    1983184     1979/80-1983/84
Current Recelptr                  378.54         19.3           19.5             201.67        10.3            10.3
Current Expenditurwa              397.12        20.3            19.4             225.42        11.5            10.9
Currant Surplus/Deficit          -18.58          -1.0            0.1             -23.75        -1.2            -0.6
Capital Expenditures f/           149.66          7.7            8.0             114.12         5.8             5.8
External Assistance (met) d/       19.16          1.0            1.1
NlfE. CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71  1975/76  1978179  1979/80  1980/81  19B1/82  i982i83  1983/84  January 1984 January 1985
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of aeriod)
Money and Qudsi Ibney             109.8    224.8   401.1   472.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   860.9             835.1         993.9
Dank Credit to Governe  (not)    54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7               403.1        483.9
Dank Credit to Comercial Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7               575.5        685.0
(Percentage or Index Nunbers)                        April-Jan 83/84    April-Jan 84185
HIney nd Qbasi Money as a 2
of GDP                           27.3      30.3    41.1    44.1    43.7    42.5    44.5    44.0
Wbolesele Price Index
(1970/71 - 1W)                 100.0    173.0   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2             313.6            336.7
Annual Percentage change. in:
Uholeeae Price Index                7.7     -1.1      -        17.1    18.2       9.4     2.6       9.2        9.2              7.4
Dak Credit to Government (net)   15.0        22.7    16.0      25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3           16.9 j/         23.2 hl
Dank Credit to Com_ercil Sector  19.4        22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7             13.8 J/         15.6 h/
*/ The per capita GNP eeti_te io at mrket prices, usinlg World Bank Atl-a methodology, base period 1981-83.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Escimates. Central Statistical Organizetion.
Ef Computed frco trend lIne of CNP at factce cost serie, including one observation before firat year and one observation after
last year of listed period.
dl World Dank astitees of net disbureeent ot concessional aid and IBRO.
Transfere becween Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loan  nd edvances to third parties have bean netted ouc.
SL/ Percentage change from end-tlrch 1983 to end-Jan.84.
h/ Percentage change from end-Mrch 1984 to end-Jan.85.
if  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census.  Excludes dars for Assam.



Pop 6 of 6
USSANC  O  PAYMENTS                    1981/82    1982i85      1983/84     1984/85       SCQANDIU!E EXPORS  (AVERACE 1980/81-1913/84) g/
Exports of Coods g/                      8.519     68,90         8.355       8,724       Egineering Goode                 1115       13
Imports tf Goods a/                    -15.301   -14,290      -14,040      -14.501       Tea                               469        6
Trade balance                          - 6.762    - 6.000      - 5.68S     - 5.777       CAM                              1009       12
NFS (net)                                1.002        935          948       1.098        Clothing                         688        8
Leather and Leatber Products     343        4
Resource Balance                       - 5.780    - 5.065      - 4.737     - 4.678        Jute Msnufactures                269        3
Iron Ore                         400        5
Interest Income (net) kI                   350    -   302     -   664      -   785        Cotton Textiles                  316        4
Nut Transform 1/                         2.317      2,504        2,680       2.930        Sugar                             104       1
Others                           3704      44
Bslance on Currant Account             - 3.113    - 2.863      - 2.521     - 2.533
Direct Investment                           10         65           62          61
Total                           8417      100
Officel Leoan  4 Grents (net)            1.681      1.901        1.961       1,944
'rosa Dlibursments                       2.269      2,513        2,578       2.585       MITRNAL DET, MARH 31. 1984
.zortization                               588        612          617         641
USS billion
Private Borrowing (net)                    338        366          528         844
Outstanding end Dlsbureod                  21.5
Non-Resldent Deposits                      260        578          903         600        Undiaburaed                                10.4
Transaction with IW  (not)                 690      1,980        1.295          70       Outstanding including Undiebursed           31.9
All other Itms o/                      - 2.264    - 1,522      - 1.347       - 683
Increase In Resrves (-                   2.398    -   504     -   882        - 303        DEST SERVICE RATi0 FR_ 1983/84 jI n/       13.6 per cant
Croas Reserves (end year) p1             4.461      4.965        5,847       6,150
Not Reservee (end yer) u/                3.497      2.089        1.697       2,250
IZRO/IDA LENDINC, KURCM 31. 1985 li
Fuel nd Related Mcterials
US $ million
Iuports (Petroleum) _%                   5,553      4,614        2.983       3.026                                            IRD       IDA
of which: Crude                        3.921      3.139        2.183      1I0l5
Products                     1.632      1,475         800        2,010       Oustandlng and Disbursed              2.158    8.902
Undisbureed                          4,326    3,748
Outstanding including Undisbursed    6.484   12.650
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to aid-December 1971    :   US$1.00 - Re 7.50
ka 1.00 - US$O.13333
Kid-Dece-r 1971 to end-June 1972:   US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - USS0.137376
After end-June 1972                :   Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1984           :  US$1.00 - Re 10.7181
Rei .00 - USSO.0933
Spot Rate end-Karch 1985           :   US$1.00 - Rs 12.3457
Rs 1.00 - US0.0810
Escitted
i   igure  given cer all Investment income (net). Major pa7ments are interest on foreign loan and charges  paid to  IFl,
end mjor receipts is Interest eaned on foreign aseets.
I/ Fi_ures given include workers  remittances but exclude officiel grant assistanc  which is included within officil loas
ad grate, and nom-resident deposits which are shown separately.
m/ Exclude net use of DEf credit.
nI/ Aortization and ioterest payments on foreign loans as  percentage of total current receipts.
oI  Includes exchnge rate adjutmnts to the valuation of reserves and financing of inbaencee in rup-s trade.
l Rxcludirn gold.
Net of perroleum exports



Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEET OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
j0.    Approval          PurDose                        Bank        1DA         Undisbursed V
55 Loansl                                             2,528.9         -              -
102 Credits fully disbursed                               -       5,938.9            -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -           29.2          0.05
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -             9.04
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          7.77
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0          5.28
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             1.58
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0          22.14
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           8.0           3.83
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          20.71
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0          12.70
806-:N    1978     Jamnu-Kasbmir Horticulture            -          14.0           8.01
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0          0.68
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0         -             7.23
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0          14.25
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         102.39
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -         190.0           5.88
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           3.24
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -          27.0           9.988
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            41.09
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0          15.34
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -         175.0           3.25
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          11.83
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0           0.16
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0          12.79
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -          46.0          19.59
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          14.86
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          71.99
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -          22.0          13.60
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         112.45
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -          10.0           5.76
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0          14.74



Page 2 of 5
Us$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       furxop&                        iBak         IDA jj      Undisbureed 3)
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                            54.0          21.40
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          38.84
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                    99.0         -             3.42
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -         225.0          68.79
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -           17.09
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0           7.90
1078-IN    1981     Nahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          35.75
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0          18.64
1108-IN    1981     H.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0          70.15
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VI'I               -         314.0          68.36
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          31.84
1125-IN    1981     Nazira Fertilizer Project             -         399.1          60.93
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0           7.57
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          13.37
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Est. II             -          37.0          24.26
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0          61.24
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Pover Project II        -         400.0         242.57
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         139.15
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -             2.40
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          18.86
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          12.75
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -            21.60
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Pover II         300.0         -           256.89
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           4.05
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -            71.57
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5         -           215.94
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -          60.0          25.10
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          59.07
1286-IN    1983     Jaumu/Kasbmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0          22.30
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Nadhya Pradesh
Irrigation II                      -          31.0          16.30
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         101.90
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -           114.48
1299-IN    1983     Railvays Nodernization &
Naintenance II                     -         200.0         168.63
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -           197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development       139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -         150.0          96.85
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II              -         101.0          84.51



Page 3 of 5
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
.o..    App.oa l        Purpose                        Bank        IDA jj     Undisburetd, /
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Rydro Power          -         170.0         149.50
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Rydro Power        156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -         147.0         134.50
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Tranesission         250.7         -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Rimalayan Watershed Nanagement      46.2         -           45.31
1383-IN    1983     Naharashtra Water Utilization        -          32.0          23.27
2308-IN    1983     NaMarasbtra Water Utilization       22.7         -           22.64
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                24.1         -            23.47
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -         105.0         74.52
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -          31.0         31.15
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -          70.0         67.48
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -          27.0         22.55
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0         -          245.88
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0         -           150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5         -           239.53
2415-IN    1984     Hadhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6         -           195.42
1454-IN    1984     Taxil Nadu Water Supply              -          36.5         36.03
SF-12-IN  1984      Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -          36.5         37.40
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -          17.5          12.00
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -          17.5          17.59
1483-IN    1984     Upper Gauga Irrigation               -         125.0        124.48
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation            -         172.0        146.70
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric       157.4         -          157.01
S1-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric         -         129.8        129.25
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification           280.7         -          280.00
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power           300.8         -          300.05
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Pover       135.4         -          135.06
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III       -          220.0        214.21
1514-IN    1985    Kerala Social Forestry                -          31.8         31.65
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I          -          39.1         40.89
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development             -         138.0        145.88
2497-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power*  200.0          -          200.00
1552-IN    1985     Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power*    -          100.0         100.00
1553-IN    1985    Narmada (Gujarat) Canal*              -         150.0        150.00
1569-IN    1985     Second National Agricultural Ext.*  -           49.0         49.00
1611-IN    1985     National Social Forestry*            -         165.0        165.00
1613-IN    1985     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*        -          13.2         13.20
2498-IN    1985     Jharia Coking Coal                 248.0         -          248.00
2505-IN    1985     Maharasbtra Petrochemical          300.0         -          300.00
2534-IN    1985     Second National Highway*           200.0         -          200.00
2544-IN    1985     Chandrapur Thermal Power*          300.0         -          300.00
2555-IN    1985     Rihand Power Transmission*         250.0         -          250.00
2582-IN    1985     Kerala Power*                      176.0         -           176.00
1619-IN    1986     West Bengal Minor Irrigation*        -          99.0         99.00



Page 4 of 5
US$ million
Loan or Fiscal                                                 (let of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
llo.    Arovral        fPrrose                        Blank         IDA 21    VUdisbursed l/
1621-IN    1986     Maharashtra Composite Irrigation*   -           160.0        160.00
1622-I1    1986     Keiala Water Supply and Sanitation* -           41.0          41.00
1623-II    1986     West Bengal Population*              -           51.0         51.00
Total                                   8,487.0    13,752.7
of which has been repaid              1,324.5       219.7
Total nOV outstanding                   7,162.5    13,533.0
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/       7,162.5    13,533.0
Total undisbursed (ezcluding *)         3,887.15    3,473.30
1J IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
V   Undisbursed amounts for SDR-deuominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1985.
31 Prior to exchange adjustment.
N Yot yet effective.



Page 5 of 5
B.  STTEENT OF IFC INVEST ENTS
(As of September 30, 1985)
-Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
x0ar                     9-Company                    Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Siliuianite Ltd.                 1.4        -        1.4
1961            1.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Jgine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Lakubmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                        6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9        -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited            15.0        -       15.0
1981            lagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.7        -       15.7
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1        -        8.1
1984-86         The Gvalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      13.5        -       13.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                          10.4       0.8      11.2
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                       22.1        -      22.1
1985            Modi Cement                           12.5        -       12.5
1985            India Lease Development Ltd.           5.0       0.4      5.4
1986            Larsen and Toubro Ltd.                17.2                17.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        287.9      13.3    301.2
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           162.0       6.3    168.3
Now Reld                    125.9       7.0    132.9
Amm           m        m
Undisbursed                  77.0       1.2      78.2
,,, m               m



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
SECTION I       Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Time taken by the country to prepare the project
24 months.
(b)     The agency which has prepared the project
The Project Preparation Cell of GOAP Department of Irrigation.
(c)     Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and date of
first miusion to consider the project
May 1983; January 1984.
(d)     Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 16, 1985.
(e)     Date of completion of negotiations
January 15, 1986.
(f)     Planned date of effectivenes_
July 21, 1986.
Section II      Special Conditions
(a)     As a condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness, GOAP would
prepare a satisfactory Program, including an Action Plan and a
timetable for implementing the Program for the resettlement
and/or rehabilitation of families displaced by the
construction of the Srisailam and Mannair dams and
reservoirs, and for those families directly affected by the
proposed project (para. 60).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)    An assurance was obtained that by October 1, 1986,
COAP would provide water only for irrigated dry regimes
(para. 67).
(c)    By Kay 30, 1986, GOAP would complete all action necessary to
implement the revised charges Statewide (para. 71).
(d)    An assurance was obtained from COAP that it would
(i) constitute an interdepartmental Water Charges Review
Committee by March 31, 1987, to conduct a revi.ew of the
level of water and water related charges and the method of
their assessment and collection; (ii) submit by September
30, 1987 a report summarizing the results and recommendations
of the committee to IBRD/IDA for its review and comments;
(iii) taking into account IBRD /IDA comments implement such
recommendations; and (iv) thereafter commencing July 1,
1989 cause the WCRC to review and adjust water and water
related charges at least once every two years to ensure the
recovery of full operation and maintenance Losts and a
reasonable portion of capital costs taking into account
farmers' repayment capacity (para. 71).



ARM IV
INDIA
SECOND ANDIAR PRADESH IRDIGATIOI PROJECT
Proposed Procurement Method I/
(US$ Million)
Departntal
Project Blement              ICB      LCB        Order        NA     Total Cost
Civil Vorks 2/             252.3    122.0       4.5                    378.8
(169.8)   (79.3)                            (249.1)
Materials, Equipment         4.3      1.3                                 5.6
and Vehicles               (4.0)    (1.0)                              (5.0)
Technical Assistance                                           5.9       5.9
and Training                                                 (5.9)     (5.9)
Engineering and Administration                                45.0      45.0
Rehabilitation                                                 1.0        1.0
(1.0)     (1.0)
Land Surveys and
Acquisition                                    _            16.7      16.7
TOTAL 31                 256.6    123.3       4.5           68.6     453.0
(173.8)   (80.3)                    (6.9)   (261.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Loan
and Credit less US$10 million of unallocated funds.
2/ Irrigation, roads and on-farm development.
3/ Excludes US$22.8 million in taxes and duties.



IBRD 18842
/                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A
}   _AKA                    To,iho    SECOND ANDHRA PRADESH
iRRIGATION PROJECT
SRIRAMASAGAR IRRIGATION SCHEME
/ POCNAMPsAD DAM    j4ol 4co
IlRIGAtION ARrAS
\- .L  PROJCT
\Pe /    palim sgj2  , '. '        .FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
~~**  /| EXISTING
S.rcilla  MANAIR DAM                                                                       MAIN CANALS
-,/ ---PROPOSED UNDER THE PROJEC T
-  FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
5ie  4-*COMPLETED
/Klto Poll.
/  \4<S * * ~ -  .                                                 RIVERS AND STREAMS
/- -'DAMS
-ROADS
TO hVdwobad
-- ... -I*RAILROADS
o    SELECTED TOWNS
- -  --  STATE BOUNDARIES
,/ ffi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nnmper
To Hydao         ao     n                     .  --- 
\km 2ER tt   -   -      -;\    ; \                          0   l0   20   30   40
. < \ X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
h*mnm           - .    - *-    \  --       n
FT C                                        .16- r~ -                      6sa.   s.
Fmal Guds ~  ~      ~       ~             fn l .              rCdpW    p
\   ,  \        -,    m             -   #  *_   - . -     V__      _=.
Ta Hyderubod    \    \             '~~~,   \    ,       H             _,,,,_,m    P__,_S ,                  __~
/   >       \      /+f            /  t   ~~~~~~~~  ~ANIDIRA \
/   \   @           w              /      V               /   F~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA ESH Are ofo
DevrcwndoW         _                  _                                                                                      a y -  \   H  Bor of B.ngol
14.
DAM       {'KtAAA.  
To Vijry&.-de    A     . ;
PEEUAV 1g_



S__   R15AI_A DAMW
SEON  ANHR  PRADFSH
p<   SS DIRRIATIONS*HEM
r3   ,.c                                            a ... Al Dl D-            A PA  



