FILE C)OP Y                         Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1862-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 2, 1976
This document has a restirieted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwinse be disclosed without World Bfank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Unit                         Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1                         FMG 215
FMG1                         US$0.005
FMG1,000                     US$4.65
FMG1,000,000      :          US$4,651
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA = Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en
Afrique
(Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
DAC   - Development Assistance Committee
(of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equivalent of US$22.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fourth Highway Project. The
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) has agreed to provide
parallel financing with a loan to Madagascar of US$5.0 million equivalent for
a period of 25 years, including a 5-year period of grace, at an interest rate
of 3 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "The Economic Development of Mada-
gascar: Main Issues" (Report No. 167a-MAG) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 15, 1974. An economic updating mission visited Madagascar
in October/November 1975 and its report is being completed. A summary of the
mission's findings is set out below. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        With a GNP per capita estimated at US$150 in 1973, Madagascar
is one of the poorest countries in the world. It is predominantly an agricul-
tural country and 85 percent of its 8.3 million people live in rural areas
with an average per capita income below US$100 per annum. Although the
country is sparsely populated (an average of 15 inhabitants per square
kilometer), there is great pressure on cultivable land in some regions. In
these areas the standard of living is close to subsistence level; nutrition is
deficient and child mortality is high. Owing mainly to different ecological
conditions, the highlands are more advanced than the coastal areas, and the
south is particularly poor with a harsh, arid climate and infertile soils.
The east coast is rich agriculturally, but crops are frequently devastated by
cyclones. Internal migration is common and has accelerated as improved roads
have provided access to new areas. However, poor roads remain a major con-
straint to development; only one third of the main highways are passable in
all weather in a country where production centers may be as far as 1,200 km
from main points of consumption. Many areas are cut off from the rest of the
country for several months each year.
4.        The structure of land holdings does not give rise to large in-
equalities in income or wealth, but in a number of instances traditional
share cropping practices are resented. Rice, the staple food, accounts for
about one third of agricultural production and is mostly consumed on the
farm. The major cash crops include coffee, sugar and cloves; there is a wide
variety of other crops. Animal husbandry is also important, with a national
herd estimated at 8 to 10 million head. Fishing, too, now makes an important
contribution to national income.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Madagascar has passed through a period of fundamental political
change over the past four years. A referendum held in December 1975 ap-
proved a new constitution and confirmed President Ratsiraka as Head of
State and President of the Supreme Revolutionary Council. The basic poli-
tical program of the present Government has been outlined in the Charter of
the Socialist Revolution published in September 1975. Major institutional
and policy changes aim at:
(i) Decentralization: greater local responsibility for development
is to be encouraged by giving the provincial administrations
considerably increased authority; furthermore, the compre-
hensive reorganization of the system of local government based
on the fokonolona, begun in 1973, is to be consolidated.
(ii) Land reform: the few large estates left unexploited are to
be broken up and sharecroppers would receive the land
they actually work.
(iii) Rural development: high priority is to be given to increas-
ing incomes and services in the poorest areas.
(iv)  Basic education:   all children of school age are to be
gradually enrolled in a new five-year primary education
program with a curriculum which is to be made more
relevant to local circumstances.
(v) Greater national participation in commerce and industry: the
commercial banks, insurance companies and a number of other
key businesses in foreign hands have been nationalized and
Government may become a majority shareholder in all major
enterprises.
6.        The Charter makes the reform of local government a central feature
of the new development strategy. The fokonolona system, which is an original
adaptation of the traditional village council, aims at enabling citizens to
participate actively in improving local conditions. The fokonolona are
engaging in cooperative activities such as the marketing of crops, the retail-
ing of essential commodities and the channeling of credit. They have begun
to collect levies on marketed produce and to use the proceeds to finance
schools and other services. During the last two years, fokonolona have al-
ready been established throughout the country - about 10,000 in all - and
some have begun development activities such as the construction of roads,
communal buildings and small irrigation works, in addition to marketing
activities.
7.        Between 1966 and 1971 GDP in real terms rose by about five percent
per annum, while the investment rate was close to 15 percent. Following the
change in Government in 1972, a comprehensive reappraisal of economic policies



-3-
was undertaken. Over the past three years the rapid malagasization of the
economy has been accompanied inevitably by initial management problems. These
combined with the recession in the world economy, have had an adverse impact
on overall economic performance. Real GDP now stands at the level reached in
1971, after a drop in 1972 and 1973 in construction and services, and a marked
recovery in 1974 when GDP rose by over 6 percent mainly owing to an excellent
harvest. Since 1971 gross fixed capital formation has declined and in 1974
amounted to only 11 percent of GDP.
8.        Agricultural output grew by about 10 percent between 1970 and 1974,
mainly on account of commercial crops, including fruit and forestry products.
The expansion of coffee and cotton production in particular has been encourag-
ing. Coffee, the main export crop, now accounts for nearly one third of
total export earnings; it is grown almost entirely by smallholders. Cotton
production has doubled since 1970. On the other hand, livestock production
has suffered as a result of a decline in cattle numbers between 1970-74,
mainly due to drought and an increase in the incidence of disease. This,
combined with expanding domestic consumption, has caused a serious drop in the
exports of meat and meat products.
9.        The expansion of rice production is one of the Government's major
tasks. Rice is largely grown for on-farm consumption; less than 15 percent
enters commercial channels. Nevertheless, over the last decade rice produc-
tion had grown by only 2 percent per year, which was insufficient to keep
up with population growth. The urban population has increased by about
5 percent annually, and its demand for rice has led the country to be a net
importer of rice since 1971. To stimulate production, in 1973/74 the Govern-
ment doubled the producer price of paddy. The impact of this measure could
not be accurately ascertained since, although production increased substan-
tially in 1974, weather conditions were unusually favorable in that year.
Indications are, however, that in this very poor country, price incentives
have to be accompanied by related measures covering marketing, roads, exten-
sion, inputs, equipment and credit.
10.       Since Independence in 1960, manufacturing has made steady progress,
raising its contribution to GDP from about 5 percent to 12 percent. Output
is mostly processed agricultural products and consumer goods for domestic
use. As manufacturing has expanded, imports of non-food consumer goods
declined as a percentage of total merchandise imports from 42 percent in 1960
to 19 percent in 1974, while imports of intermediate and capital goods, and on
occasion raw materials, have increased. The Government considers that there
is still some scope for further import substitution, but for long term growth
Madagascar will need to develop export industries. In particular there is
potential for the further processing of domestic agricultural products. Pro-
duction has not been too much affected by recent political changes; although
value added in manufacturing stagnated in 1972 and 1973, it grew by 9 percent
in 1974, mainly on account of textile, sugar and dairy industries.



-4-
11.       Political uncertainties over the past three years have resulted
in a sharp downturn in foreign private investment. At the same time the
Malagasy themselves have been hesitant to invest in manufacturing. A sub-
stantial number of potentially viable investment projects have been iden-
tified, and the Government's immediate concern is to find suitable private
partners with the necessary expertise. The investment code is currently
being revised to provide standard sets of conditions for most investors.
In the case of major investors, special agreements may be negotiated.
12.       As part of the policy of malagasization, the use of foreign tech-
nical assistance has been greatly reduced. In 1970 there were some 1,500
foreign experts employed by the Government; by 1974 the number had fallen to
about 600. Pressure is being exerted similarly on private firms to localize
their staff. The departure of numerous foreign managers has been accompanied
by an expansion in the demand for nationals with commercial, entrepreneurial
and managerial skills. This transitional period will no doubt be accompanied
by management problems, and it is likely that the Government will have to rely
to a greater extent than now on foreign consultants and technical assistants
in a non-executive capacity.
13.       Recent developments in public finance have reflected the rela-
tive conservatism of the various governments which exercised power over
the last four years.   Current government revenue amounts to about 14 percent
of GDP while current expenditure declined somewhat in real terms mainly
on account of lower purchases of goods and services by the Government.
The current budgetary surplus increased from about FMG 4.6 billion (US$18
million) in 1972 to FMG 6.8 billion (US$30 million) in 1975, and financed
about one third of capital expenditures during this period. The Government's
capacity to implement investment projects has not been as high as its expecta-
tions; actual expenditure has increased little since 1972 and has fallen short
of budgetary allocations.
14.       It was only in 1974 that the Government reversed its traditional
position of being a net depositor with the banking system. The Treasury
then borrowed about FMG 10 billion (US$45 million) to finance emergency
imports of rice. In 1974, money supply increased by about 18 percent and
consumer prices went up by 22 percent. Since then claims of the monetary
system on Government, money supply and consumer prices have been relatively
stable.
15.       The Government is aware that it needs a more aggressive develop-
ment strategy. The 1976 budget provides for an investment budget nearly
double actual expenditures in 1975. It remains to be seen, however, if
its administration will be geared to such higher levels. Current expenditure
is also estimated to increase by 22 percent, partly to upgrade the minimum
wages of junior employees (up to 40 percent for the lowest paid). One
of the major items of the budget is education, which accounts for 25 percent
of current expenditure. On the other hand, expenditure for police and



- 5 -
military related activities are very low. Current revenue is estimated to
grow by 17 percent, an increase to be achieved by some increases in customs
duties and improved collection. As the current surplus wouild disappear,
special contributions are to be levied on the crop stabilization funds and
public enterprises to finance part of the capital budget. In the foreseeable
future, budget surpluses are estimated to be lower in real terms than in the
early 1970s. To the extent the Government will step up its investment, it
will have to make greater efforts to mobilize domestic financial resources
and to rely to a somewhat greater extent than at present on external capital
inflows.
16.       In July, 1973 Madagascar withdrew from the Franc Zone.    An autono-
mous Central Bank was established and exchange control imposed on all external
transactions. Imports of non-essential commodities were curbed by licensing
and by an increase in import taxes. In 1973 the balance of payments' current
account showed a small deficit of about US$11 million. But in 1974 the
exceptionally high rice imports and the increased cost of oil products,
accompanied by generally worsening terms of trade, led to a current account
deficit of approximately US$53 million. While export prices rose by only 16
percent between 1973 and 1974, import prices jumped by 45 percent. In 1975,
international reserves dropped by US$15 million to US$35 million, the equiva-
lent of only five weeks of merchandise imports.
17.       It is not expected that capital requirements will substantially
increase over the 1975-80 period. A relatively slow growth of GDP at an
annual rate of 4 percent is projected, while the resource gap would remain
close to 1 percent of GDY. Historically, Madagascar has experienced a very
low import elasticity but it is assumed that with the increase in the invest-
ment rate, imports of goods and services will grow by 5 percent annually. At
the same time, the terms of trade would not improve over the adverse position
obtained in 1974. The current account deficit would increase in current
prices from an estimated US$50 million in 1975 to about US$82 million in 1980.
After modest allowances for capital grants and private direct investment,
net disbursements of external assistance should increase from US$40 million
in 1975 to US$50 million in 1980, which is virtually no growth after allowance
for international inflation. This would call for commitments of about US$80
million annually in the late 1970's.
18.       On the basis of the capital inflow described above, the debt service
ratio would remain 4 percent during the remainder of the 1970s. Beyond 1980,
however, capital requirements may increase if the economy recovers the impetus
it had in the late 1960s. At the same time, some decline in the grant element
of external assistance is projected and the debt service ratio would reach 7.5
percent in 1985. For a long time to come, however, external aid agencies
should, in view of the poverty of the country, be prepared to continue provi-
ding assistance on concessionary terms. In view of the lack of local capital
resources, they should also be prepared to finance a high proportion of total
project cost, including a part of local costs.
19.       Official development assistance to Madagascar averaged about US$56
million per annum in the 1970-74 period, half of which were technical assistance
grants. Gross official flows from DAC countries slightly increased from US$32



- 6 -
million to US$38 million, with France's share declining from 77 percent to 60
percent. Disbursement on long and medium term loans more than doubled to
US$23 million. In 1974 external aid commitments totaled approximately US$56
million, some 30 percent below the 1973 level. Half of these commitments were
for Bank loans and IDA credits. New major sources of external finance are the
European Development Fund and China; in 1975 the latter committed US$55
million to be disbursed over the next ten years. As a result of concessionary
terms under which most external assistance was granted and of the 1972 agree-
ment cancelling about 43 percent (US$27 million) of the debt owed to France,
Madagascar's current level of indebtedness is low. External public debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1974 was US$132 million, of which
the Bank's share was 8 percent and IDA's was 30 percent. Service payments
on this debt amounted to US$9.5 million in 1974 (or about 3.6 percent of
export earnings), of which payments to the Bank Group represented 11 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
20.       Madagascar has received nine IDA credits totaling US$89.2 million
and five Bank loans totaling US$32.6 million. There have been no IFC invest-
ments. About 65 percent of Bank Group lending has been for transport, 32
percent for agriculture and the balance for education. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of April 30, 1976 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. The priority given to transport
investment recognizes that improvement in communications is a precondition
for Madagascar's development. Three projects were for the construction of
all-weather links between the island's different regions, one was for
improvements to Madagascar's main port of Tamatave and one for the moderni-
zation of the railway line between Tamatave and capital. Bank Group lending
for agriculture consists of two livestock development projects, two irriga-
tion projects and a forestry project. The balance of our lending has helped
to expand technical education and teacher training.
21.       Problems have arisen in the course of execution of several projects.
Although, as far as construction works are concerned, physical implementation
is generally satisfactory, substantial cost overruns have occurred which
necessitated major reductions in the scope of several projects and, in the
case of the Tamamatave Port and Third Highway Projects, led to supplemental
IDA financing. In addition, project execution has, during the last 18 months,
been affected by political events which led to a slowdown of the decision
making process as well as on matters such as effectiveness formalities or the
processing of withdrawal applications.
22.       In our future lending to Madagascar, we intend to continue focusing
primarily on infrastructure development, agriculture and education. Priority
will be given to the highway sector, where we will increasingly emphasize the
construction of feeder roads and road maintenance activities. The Government
is also preparing a hydroelectric power project and has asked the Bank Group
to assist in identifying sources of financing.



23.       Gradually, we expect to shift our lending from infrastructure to
agriculture. However, the absence of a comprehensive agricultural strategy
has slowed down the preparation of specific projects and in the immediate
future we will, therefore, concentrate on the implementation of ongoing
projects, particularly of the complex Village Livestock and Rural Develop-
ment Project and of the Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project.
These two projects have encountered serious implementation problems for
which solutions are being sought (see Annex II). We have also agreed to
assist the Government in identifying and preparing a second phase project for
the development of the Morondava area which may lead to Bank Group financing.
In education, the Government has recently taken steps to decentralize educa-
tional control and to improve the quality of basic education . A project which
would support these efforts has been appraised and should be ready for consi-
deration by the Executive Directors towards the end of this year.
PART III. TRANSPORT SECTOR IN MADAGASCAR
24.       Madagascar, the world's fourth largest island (590,000 km 2), is
situated 400 km off the east coast of Africa. A number of factors make develop-
ment of an adequate transport network extremely difficult and expensive: (a)
the size of the country, (b) the ruggedness of its terrain, (c) the prevailing
climatic conditions with frequent devastating tropical storms, (d) the dearth
of suitable road building material and (e) the tendency of the population to
cluster in dense but relatively small and isolated pockets. Transport needs
are relatively well met on the central plateau, with the capital, Tananarive,
generating or absorbing about half of the country's commodity flows, but the
northern and part of the western regions have no all-weather land connections
with the rest of the island, and the links with the southern regions are
largely trails. For example, to transport goods by road from Tananarive to
Diego-Suarez, a distance of 1,200 km, takes from four to six weeks; this could
be reduced to a few days with an all-weather road of modest standards. These
factors reinforce the relative isolation of the less populated regions, and
have severely hindered the country's economic development. If Madagascar's
agricultural potential especially is to be realized, considerable road improve-
ment and expansion are required.
25.       The Government's transport policy, as outlined in the 1974-77
Development Plan, and endorsed by the Charter, is to connect regional capitals
gradually by all-weather roads, to improve transport services and to further
agricultural development by assisting the fokonolona in selecting, construct-
ing and maintaining local feeder roads. However, budgetary constraints are
now severe and, as a result, the Government is undertaking projects only on an
annual basis according to fund availability. Highway planning is the res-
ponsibility of the Central Planning Service in the Ministry of Public Works.
The Ministry of Transport has no general planning unit but, like the Ministry
of Public Works, it being strengthened by the transport planning team financed
under the Railways Project (Credit 488-MAG). This team has been fully opera-
tional since end 1975 and is working in close collaboration with government



- 8 -
officials who, it is expected, will be able to take charge when the team
leaves.
Highways
26.       The total highway network comprises about 32,000 km of roads, of
which 8,600 km are primary roads and 19,000 km secondary roads. With the
exception of about 1,700 km of paved primary roads constructed since 1964,
road standards are generally low, with poor alignment, narrow and weak pave-
ment and often obsolete structures. The vehicle fleet is composed of about
60,000 units, of which half are registered in Tananarive. The road trans-
port industry consists of numerous highly competitive small carriers and
cooperatives, a few large companies, and some traders. Tariffs are close
to cost, varying according to road condition, season, and demand. There
are few regulations concerning these services.
27.       Roads are administratively classified as national (primary) and
provincial (secondary). Road regulations set vehicle weight and dimensions,
inspection, speed limits, and vehicle and driving licenses. Vehicle dimen-
sions and weight regulations are adequate, but their enforcement is generally
lacking. The Government has, therefore, agreed (a) to ensure that the dimen-
sions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national highway network shall not
exceed limits consistent with the design standards for such roads; and (b) to
exchange views with the Association on the proposed program for implementation
(Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement). In order to support these
measures, the project will provide for portable scales and vehicles required
to undertake a 12-month axle-weighing campaign on the paved network to deter-
mine where permanent weigh bridges, also to be financed under the project,
should be installed.
28.       The New Works Department of the Ministry of Public Works is in
charge of new construction, and the Infrastructure and Maintenance Depart-
ment is responsible for highway maintenance. The engineering corps of the
Army carries out limited maintenance on secondary roads, and has recently
received a loan of about US$4.0 million from the Federal Republic of Germany
to purchase road maintenance equipment. Maintenance of tertiary roads and
tracks is the responsibility of the fokonolona; quality varies from village to
village.
29.       Through three projects financed in 1966, 1967, and 1972, the Bank
Group has assisted in constructing some 650 km of roads and three major
bridges. Physical execution of all these projects has been satisfactory.
However, considerable cost increases were experienced in the course of ex-
ecution of the Third Highway Project, resulting largely from price escalation
and currency re-alignments. To help the Government to meet part of the cost
overruns, the Association extended in September 1975 a supplemental credit of
US$5.6 million. At that time, it was agreed to delete one of the roads from
the project and to include financing for its construction at reduced standards
in the proposed Fourth Highway Project. The other components of the project
are now nearing completion.



- 9 -
30.       Expenditures on road maintenance have been insufficient, and over
the last several years budget allocations for maintenance on the primary
and secondary road network were substantially reduced. As a result, many
roads are poorly maintained. In its 1976 budget, the Government has allo-
cated FMG 1,300 million (about US$6 million equivalent) for primary road
maintenance, which is about twice the amount actually spent in 1975. For
the future, the Government has agreed to maintain its roads adequately
(Section 4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). In future the Govern-
ment will (i) each year establish the allocations for road maintenance on the
basis of the requirements, taking into account, among other things, new road
construction, road improvement, and inflation, and (ii) before approving its
budgetary allocations, provide the Association with a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with respect to determining requirements.
31.       Major road projects are executed by contractors which are either
foreign firms or local subsidiaries of French-or Italian firms. A domestic
contracting industry for highway construction has not yet developed, due to
lack of professional skills and scarcity of capital and credit facilities.
However, in early 1974 a government-owned National Public Works Agency was
established as an independent and financially autonomous corporation and
its first contract, for the reconstruction of a 42 km road north of Tananarive,
is being implemented.   A force account construction unit within the Infra-
structure and Maintenance Department carries out earth works and graveling of
secondary roads; although hampered by insufficient equipment, its performance
is satisfactory.
32.       Construction contracts are usually awarded on the basis of local
or international competitive bidding. Administrative procedures for bid-
ding and contract award follow well-established and appropriate regulations,
and work specifications are comprehensive and precise. Construction super-
vision is carried out either by the New Works Department itself or by consult-
ing engineers.
Railways
33.       The state-owned railways, comprising about 900 km, the majority of
which was built prior to 1920, are operated under the supervision of the
Ministry of Transport. They serve primarily a narrow corridor between Tan-
anarive and Tamatave, the country's major port. A US$6 million IDA credit of
1974 is assisting to renew about 60 km of main track and modernize the rail-
roads' fleet of freight and passenger wagons. The project is slightly behind
schedule and cost increases have made it necessary to reduce the number
of wagons to be purchased. Technically, the railways are operating effi-
ciently, but due to organizational problems, an uneconomic tariff struc-
ture, and the lack of financial and commercial flexibility, they are ill-
equipped to face increasing road competition and are currently incurring
financial losses.



- 10 -
Coastal Shipping
33.       Coastal navigation is important and constitutes the only means
of transport between many areas. In 1975, this traffic amounted to about
400,000 tons. The Association recognizes the importance of water trans-
port in the country's transport system and in June 1970 made an IDA
credit of US$9.6 million to assist in financing the expansion and moderniza-
tion of various facilities in the port of Tamatave and in providing technical
assistance for management and training. The project encountered severe cost
overruns which in 1973 led to a supplementary IDA credit. This, however, was
not sufficient and the Government decided to postpone construction of the
tanker terminal, originally included in the project. The other physical works
have been completed.
Air Transport
34.       Madagascar has a fairly extensive air transport network.   Of
its 59 airfields, 17 are built to all-weather standards. The airports
at Tananarive, Majunga and Nossi-Be can handle international jet aircraft.
Although to some extent air transport compensates for the absence of ade-
quate land transport, its role remains necessarily limited.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Fourth Highway Project - Demo-
cratic Republic of Madagascar" No. 978a-MAG, dated June 3, 1976, is being
distributed separately. A credit and project summary is provided in Annex
III. The project was prepared by the Government and appraised in April
1975. Several issues, including the components of the project and the finan-
cing plan required further discussions with the Government. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from March 29 to April 2, 1976. The Malagasy dele-
gation was led by Mr. Henri Raharijaona, Ambassador to France.
Project Description
36.       The project would be the Bank Group's sixth operation in trans-
portation and the fourth for road construction in Madagascar. It will assist
the Government in the construction of two major roads, with a view to reducing
transport costs and providing access to areas with a high agricultural
potential. The project would also provide training and strengthen the coun-
try's road maintenance organization. Specifically, the project consists of:
(i) Reconstruction of a 67 km two-lane paved road
between Arivonimamo and Analavory (RN1);
(ii) Construction to gravel standards of a 370 km
secondary road between Tsiroanomandidy and
Maintirano;



- 11 -
(iii) Provision of consulting services for engineering
and supervision of construction of the Tsiroanomandidy-
Maintirano road;
(iv) Purchase of maintenance equipment, spare parts,
weigh bridges, portable scales and vehicles, fol-
lowing a study to determine the exact needs; and
(v) Training of the staff of the Ministry of Public Works,
following a study to determine requirements.
37.       Reconstruction of part of RN1, which had to be detered from the
Third Highway Project (see para. 29), continues to have high priority. The
overall design has been changed somewhat in order to limit the expense; thus
parts of the road will only be strengthened by a bituminous overlay, and most
of the road will now follow the old rather than a new alignment. These
standards should adequately accommodate expected future traffic without major
impediment.
38.       The present link between Tsiroanomandidy and Maintirano is diffi-
cult to pass even by four-wheel drive vehicles. Since its improvement is
necessary to assist in the successful implementation of the IDA-financed
Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (Credit 506-MAG), the Govern-
ment had previously agreed to finance upgrading of the road out of its
own budget, but subsequently requested external assistance. The road will
be constructed to all-weather gravel standards and will provide access to
several villages. A number of major bridges will be built to one lane width,
which is adequate for present and forecast traffic.
39.       Highway maintenance performance has been hampered by inadequate
operational systems and budgetary constraints. Operations are largely
mechanized, but available equipment is inadequate, often due to lack of
spare parts. Equipment is procured, distributed and repaired by a central
workshop in Tananarive, which is under authority of the Infrastructure and
Maintenance Department, but is financially autonomous. The central workshop
rents equipment to the divisions and subdivisions; it charges operating costs
but no charge is made while equipment is idle. Minor repairs, the respons-
ibility of division workshops, are often neglected or cannot be made due to
lack of parts. In addition, subdivisions are not authorized to exchange
equipment directly among each other, which could reduce total requirements.
The Government has, therefore, agreed to prepare a work program and implemen-
tation schedule to reorganize the maintenance equipment renting system and
improve the spare parts supply system (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit
Agreement). In order to facilitate the task, the Government has also agreed
to employ consultants to help study the needs for spare parts and additional
equipment, after which an agreed list of goods would be procured under the
proposed credit (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 12 -
40.       A training center (Centre de Maitrise des Ponts et Chaussees),
established in 1963, has trained a large number of road supervisors, foremen,
equipment operators and mechanics. In 1975, however, the center had to curtail
its activities severely and was subsequently closed for lack of teachers and
operating funds. The Government has, therefore, agreed to employ consultants,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to study the
training needs of the Ministry of Public Works, and to consult with the
Association on the decisions that it proposes to take in the light of their
recommendations and on the means of implementation (Section 3.04, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The total estimated cost of the proposed project is US$31.8 mil-
lion, excluding taxes estimated at US$6.6 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$25.6 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 million
would finance 69 percent of total net project cost. BADEA has agreed to
provide parallel financing with a loan to Madagascar of US$5.0 million equi-
valent for a period of 25 years, including a 5-year period of grace, at an
interest rate of 3 percent per annum. The IDA credit and BADEA loan together
would cover the entire foreign exchange cost of the project, with the IDA
credit covering an additional US$1.4 million of local expenditures. The
Government would finance the remaining project costs.
42.       The BADEA loan has been earmarked specifically for the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the earth works of the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano
road which will be executed by a force account unit of the Ministry of Public
Works. Although BADEA financing will be on a parallel basis, the Association
intends to cooperate closely with BADEA, and will exchange a letter of agree-
ment covering information sharing, coordination and consultation, with respect
to the implementation of the project. The effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement is conditioned upon the BADEA Loan Agreement having been
signed and conditions precedent to initial disbursements under the BADEA
Loan Agreement having been fulfilled (Section 6.01, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Implementation
43.        The New Works Department of the Ministry of Public Works, assisted
by consultants, will be responsible for road construction and supervision; it
has proven itself competent under previous projects. The Central Planning
Service and the Infrastructure and Maintenance Department, also aided by
consultants, will be responsible for implementation of the training scheme and
road maintenance.
44.       Construction works on RNI and the maintenance and training studies
are expected to start in late 1976. The construction period for RNI is
estimated at two years, against three and a half years for the Tsiroanomandidy-
Maintirano road. The results of the maintenance studies should be available
by mid-1977 and implementation of the recommendations will stretch over
approximately three years. The project completion date would be mid-1980.



Procurement and Disbursements
45.       Contracts for reconstruction of the 67 km section of RNI, construc-
tion of all bridges, as well as for the purchase of maintenance equipment,
(other than spare parts), weigh bridges, scales and vehicles will be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Spare parts will be procured through local shopping. For construction works a
7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation will be allowed to local contractors.
The earth works of the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road are not suitable for
competitive bidding since their scope and dispersion over the 370 km of the
road would result in high costs if executed by contractors. They will be
carried out by a force account unit of the Ministry of Public Works, with
the assistance of a consulting management team.
46.       Disbursement from the credit will finance 70 percent of construction
works relating to RNI and the bridges on the road from Tsiroanomandidy to
Maintirano, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of local
expenditures for consulting services, and 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures or 90 percent of local expenditures for maintenance equipment, spare
parts, weigh bridges, scales, vehicles, training and studies.
47.       The US$5.0 million BADEA loan will finance 94 percent of the cost
of equipment required for the force account works on the Tsiroanomandidy-
Maintirano road (about US$4.0 million), and 20 percent of the operating cost
of the force account tnit (about US$1 million).
Benefits and Risks
48.       Both all-weather project roads would provide a direct connection
between Tananarive and the western part of the country. Reconstruction
of RN1, the cost of which, including contingencies, is US$10.0 million, will
result in savings through reduced transport costs, and its economic rate of
return is estimated to be 13 percent. The Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road
will open up an area with substantial agricultural potential. The justifi-
cation for this road is thus primarily a developmental one, and the bene-
fits will depend to a large extent on the implementation of the Village
Livestock project, which is presently encountering some problems (Annex
II, page 4). However, this situation should improve and the project should
ultimately be implemented successfully. The transport benefits are expected to
be passed on to the farmers, since the highly competitive structure of the
transport industry will exert pressure to reduce tariffs. The rate of return
for this road, the cost of which is US$12.5 million, is estimated to be 12
percent. The evaluation of benefits excludes the complementary value to the
Livestock sub-sector. The economic rate of return for both roads combined,
which account for 70 percent of total project cost, is 12.2 percent. This
aggregate rate of return excludes the project components for training and
improving road maintenance, the cost of which is US$7.3 million, which will
safeguard existing investments in infrastructure, but for which no meaningful
rate of return could be estimated because the exact programs have still to be
determined. However, they will result in improved work organization, increased
efficiency in operating and maintaining equipment, improved road maintenance
procedures and improved capability to enforce axleload regulations.



- 14 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed
credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
50.       Special features of this project are referred to in paragraphs 26,
39, 40, 42 and 47 of this Report. The effectiveness of the BADEA Loan Agree-
ment is a condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
(Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 2, 1976



AIEX I
COUNTRY DATA - MADAGASCAR                                     Page 1 of 4 pages
SOCIAL INDICATORS
LARID AREA (THOU K                                                                     EFRRC      oUIIE      190
*      ---                                                                             REFEENCE COU--  MAME
--;;IAI                            ft",~~~~~~~~~OSY RIECENT
48.L1       52160 e                                       EeSTIMAT          ItErA         SnEa    0 A IMP.  ALAVSIA
CXP PEA CAPITA (Usti                      110.0       10.0        10.0 L             £00.0       520.0       000.0
POPULATION     OT    ;ILLION)             5,          7.6         1.3                            S.1        C0.I
POPULATION DEkSItly
E   AUN4-  1*                         10.0        11.0          5,ot.a           19*.        30.0        33.9
P`E  IVUARt RI. A04OLt LANO              ..        8.0           ..                 *.        75.0
VITAL STAtIS ICS
ClUDE 818TH RATE PER THOUSANO          ".0         50.0       09.0 LE              5.§0       V.o6        54.0 a
CRU0E DEATH PATE PER THOUSAND          20.0        19.0       18.t                  .         1*.Q         7.04
IfA"N RORTALtIr RATE     JTHDOU)      1L3.0       0. 102.0      ..                5`5.0/      9s.0        t -1.0
LIFE ExPECTAOcT r    8TMH lOftSI       31.0        02.0         9.00                                      60.0 2.
GROSS REPROQuCTI0' ANTE                 2.93Li      J.2         t.S                 .          s.          t.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE Cl)
ratAL                                   2.0         2.         2e6  I.                                       t
URSN ol                                                                             a,A 
URSAN POPULATION (I Of TOTAL)            10.0        13.1        14.5 /             10-0         0. 0       27.0^
ACE sTrUTUcru PEtRCNT)l
TO IN TEARS                           sr.o        40.1       07.3 /               RA         *9.0        01.0/5
Is ro 64 NEARS                         17.5        50.2        09.2               06.0        *r.o        52.0I
SS YEARS ANN  OVER                      3.1         3.?         3.5  L             t.6          .          s.oSS
ACE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      o.7         5.0         1O /5            1jo.                     0.° -
ACONOmIC DEPEODENCT RATIO                             1.1    1    1.0 1.1 /                      2.5          1.6 5
FAHIILT PLANNING
ACCEPTOMS (CURULAIE      THOU)           ..          ..270
JSRS oI t      , MANVICO H0REN)                      *-                             *-
!!PLOTrENT
toTAL LIOsR  AORCE (THOUSANOS          2100.0   b  3800.0 5900. o       c          )s0Do.D    0500.       Zo- 4 2roe-o4
LAB3R FORCE IN AGRICULTUPE (Z)           93.0        63.0        83.o  7c           90. a       4 09.       07.0
UNECRLOYED IX Of LABOR FORCE)              ..          .           ..                 ..         6.0
INCORE olsTRVOUTDN
I Of PRIVATE INCORE R-CO By-
H4GHEST  5 Of POPJLATION              01.           ..          .                z0.z /        ..        zE.I/
HI,HEST 205 Of POPULATI0               60.1          -           .                52.6 4L
LOSEST   200 or   POPULATION     )        2          ..          .                 1..
LONEST   0X1 or PSPJLATION             13.0          ..          ..*
01STRIDUTI1O% OF LANG OARERSHI9
..   ....   ..  ...   ...... .
* OWNE) sY rYP tOT OF OLRS                 ..          . E
T OWNED sT SMAL.EST 1at TAHERS .E                      ..          ..
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
.......... ..........................._
POPULATION PEA PHYSICGIAN             O00 0/-d    11390.0 g   10604.0             t8J0.0 /r   38t0.0      1590.0 /0.4
POULLAT IO  PER N.JR56 P         ERSA  I3 O.Otd    J760.0      S3aO.O/R o470.0                04 0 0.0    1O00. °
POULAt OlO  PR HoSPITAL BED             Sl0.0g      loo 0        20.C              810.0      10IO.0       2tO.0
PEA CAPITA SUPPLY Of-
CALORIES IT Of REAOIREHENTS)          100.0       104.0       111.0              101.0       162.0        90.0 Li,
PROTETI  (RGANS PEa oAT)               85.0        53.0       58.0                73.0        70.0         .0 /
-Of WHICH ANt RAL ANDPULSE           I.KOL       1?.          .*.               29.o         6.o9 AL    2Q.0
DEATH RATE C/1HOU) AGES 1-A                ..        I3.0/5        ..                 ..          ..
ADJUTEG 5MROLLNENT RATIO
PqlMARy SCHOOL                         52.0        66.0          ..               6r.0         0   /      89.
SSCONDARY SCHOOL                        0.0       1l.0           .                 9.0 4&     :9.0        " 3::.0
AEARS Of SCHDOLING PROVIDED
CFrRST AND SECOA   LEVELI              13.0        13.0       l3.0                13.0        12.0        11.0
VOCAT ITWAL _N9. LErNT
(I Of SECODAJRY *I.0                                *.0        6.0                 2.0 4       3.   c5     31.
ADULT LITERACV RATE (I)                    ..          ..        15.0               *0.0        00.0A
NOUS IIG
PERSONS PER ROON (AVERAGE)                 ..          ..          ..                 ..          ..         2.3
OCCUPIED OHELL I4GS VITHOUT
PIPEDO wATER CT)                         ..          ..          .                                        S o 0.0
AtE$    ITO EL CTR0ICIT*
(I or NIL  ONE.. IIS)                    ..         5.e          ..                 ..          ..       AS.
RURAL DWELLINGS CONINECTED
TO ELECTRICITI (tI                       ..          ..          ..                 ..          ..        S0.0
cON SURN* t 0O
RADIO  RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          11.0        00.0       I@A.0               *0.0       *24.0        41.0
P,SithN6   CARAS (PR THOU POP)            0.0         6.0         6.C                9.          1.s0       25.o
ELECTRICITV l&AAH/R PER CAP)             2@          30.0        *I.0 I6.0                     12.0        300.0/o
kEAISPINT (%./TR PER CAP)                 0,3           1 o.^     e.1                0.5         8.2         0.O
, ,          A  _    _..........N  O  R._..........  ....................................... ..._IE
*tt NOTES AND DIERtItTIONS 04 REVERSE



ANNEX I:
Page 2 of 4 pages
finm
goises$ Loteliee noted, data for 190 refer to an y gar biesesww 1959 end 1961, for 1970 hares 1968 end 1970. end for Most Recant. atiate between
1971 & 1.973.
sic Slaysilas successful d±'eerificatieo of Its ecoenla structure,     inlttaing * high rate o.f eoiacgrowth end en edequate level of welfar
sakes iL en epMgAtat eObJeCtise' countr7.
.OACASCAS *                  ZL  19W, nUsal pepulatioo omil     a    n7n     A. RLtio Of poPu1lalen under 15 end 65 end over to total labor
tone;     gd 1962;   a   Indiud     adwisea, assistant  didw,ez sod assistant nurece;  a. 1.961-63;
Li   nbdeei pOdaltiCOg         exiting paper
aM. a.     RS     aL  kiLo Of p0p1ALahdk unde 15 end 65 end ove r L.o totl 1oo     frce.;    .  incldIng esoistent madlo
at  mar unau.   a. Ra.±sed eetiflt.; 1975 rAP Per capita -s *US150 (1973 prices.);    lb  1975 population astirate
is 5.8 aiIn;    Le 1975;     aj Ratio of population tindr 15 end 65 end over to  oa    labor
force; Li Poreossel in go,enct services only.
annjf                         /   Registered onl;    ai 1962-69;    /c  HatIo of population under 15 end 65 end over to labor force ag  15-59 fla-e;
Lao   fror  age 15-59 years;  /* UTrben housetivida;  If  Registered, not eLi practicing in the counry;
InclUdee teacher training at the thIrd level.
SYW      W    a  w      1970      Lyrino poplatiou only;    /b 1 %6-66;    /c  Including 05KM  c.onole.
MAliSIA                 1970      West Malaysia;   /b  Registered epelicente for work;   /c  Households;   /. Registered, not all practicing in Lhe
country;   I.  Governeewt only;   a   196b-d66    a~ 1997;   /b  Inside only.
R7, Parh 22, 1976
MW1T1MNS OF SICTkI h3WCAThRS
lund Apes (thou c,/t                                                               Pouain      e   usigor         - Poculation divided by rootr of practi-
~~trr'~Tfeor.ecearea coeMrisiog land area end Inland waters.                    oigml       ndemaue gradu at curses, "0.rained" o"tied         nurses,
Uro=e-  lnet recent estimaete of lend area used terporarily or pero.anenly           and auxIliary  eronnel with treincng or amerlsnce.
~cultionicn,Pastures, market cod kitchen gardens or to lie fellow.           ?"    ti:n ,pah5ppjta1 bed - Populetico divided by cosiber of hoopital
iffE7o         plblcoad pr    tost  gnerel end coectalieed hospital
(PAP    cacheit  (053) - (iNP per cacit.aestimates et market prices. celcu-          and rehabilitatloc centers: excludes cursing homes end establishmants
7'S t7~ ai   m ooverisno method as World Renk Atlas )lI7-7lo bests),               for custodial and prevetive core.
Pesr cepte simpy of coteie, (I o    rcirenno       -Cosmuted fr-
cUe ctic u-d    tol  tti.tic.                                                               qinsien   01 'Mt fod               F.pie   av isa'  in country per
pl1M         d    .F      o         Juyfrt       fctselel.oeaecpit. per day; aeailable supplies o-ose- domastic prottuticn,
sfwc rdyithiicktbi.                                                          imparts less exports, cod changes t- stock; net supplies elude
anctal feed, seeds, quantities used in f cod processing end losses
0ooulcAon  onslc  - nr educ  be -Middysar population per square kilo-           in distribution; requireaments were estimated tby PLO based om pflai-
senor (101 isotares ( of total area.                          ol~ogical needs for normal acticity cod health considering envirso-
conulzioc  ensit - or-square km of arable land - Conputed as abere fwx          mental temperature, body weights, age end sex distributions of popu-
erthie boA o,gy.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~lation, and allowing 108 for waste at houshold level.
Percaia scol       f prti     eeecrd-) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                     cepito nt sppl     ?fodpraycesupply of food is defined as
Crude bit-tb  'c  oso, thousand - Aocia lIce births per thousand of cid-             above; requirements for all counties established by USIA Zconomic
7ecr copulation; usuall  fve-year avrge      nding in 1960, 1970 end               Research Services provide f-e a ninimu   cl11ane of 60 gream of totol
775f7r deeo      tog untirte.                                                     protein per day, and 207 graee of acte1 cod Pulse protein, of which 10
frd etih rets corthousand - Annua deaths per thausend Of did-yea                 grens should cc -ni-a  prctein; these stadards ore lowr than these
populatnc usalyfle-er overges ending in 1960, 1970 end I97                         of (5 peons of total proesin end 23 gr-n of ecLeal protein as en aver-
frdeveloping countris                                                            age for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Pond Survy.
infec   otliyrtn('hu            Annua deaths of intents wider one year        r        cnt     rti     iml    rmela      and pulse - Protein supply of fo
ofage oe    uedliebrh,drTved fr                                                                 RaImals and:pulses in gree  per day.
It scecyo btotth tn)I -A ..erege condr of yeear of life resain-            Datrate, 'thou) a 5 1L      -.Anna   aeet.. is   huand in ag      r     -li
lcg o  cii; uuall  fiv-yer ...erages ending is 1960, 1970 end 1975                                  is goe group; sgeted es en indicetor of -al-
fur  . leopinpg countries.                                                       outritio.n
tr-s Mr.rduction rate - irerge nimber of live daughters e noss will
boor in her normal reproductive period it she exerience   preset age-            Fducatiun
,vc"cft  fertility cetes; usually five-year -avrgas  ending in 1960,            Id'us7ttod orellne  rotio -prinor   shool - Scrullosnt of .ll ages as
100  and :05for leveloping ocun-ries.                                             pecnaeo        rmr       oiascpltion; includes chlldrso oged
0ccuu:to  groth cts () - o"a  -  oMpoud annual growth rate, of mid-           6-11 year but edusced for different lengths of ornery education,
yer  "oplaho for 197-n, 1950-70, cod 1960 to most r-et ysor.                      for counries with unvrc       dcuon      neleomy excee        100%
'ocoiuo growth rete (0)V - urban - Coompeted like growth rete of toisince some punile ere below or ubve tie. off Ice                 school age.
oouioion;differr tecnI tion   of urban areas may effect compare-             idlusned enole,cnetic - seconar eccool -Vmue             saoe         no
sUI7  f dat.amocng cutescreueio                                                                rqures at l-east foumr :years of approved primary instruc-
Urban -evlstioc (8 of total) - Ratto of urban no total population;                   tioc; provides genere1, o-caio-I or te...her training ~nstructio- for
=tfaront Iefinltion, or uban areas may affect comparability of data                 pupils of 12 to 17 year   ofagt   corsodence courses, cr5 generally
usmg countries,                                                                    excluded.
ARL3r`1tur  ercn~'  -'hiltrn (0-li, Years), workilng age (15-64. years)      Tears of shobsling crcvded (fi.rst end second levels) - Total years of
5yrenm     orv er   o aentoges of mid-year populetion.            schooling; at secondary level, vcatoniual cost,uctioc say be partially
Ru     O population under 15 end 65 end "oer toor completely exclded.
fI h     eq"ctoe                                                                nolet (S      f scoo   r) - 7ocatIonal tc-tituticno include
Zcf ..c epadxpy rto-Rati ofpopulation under 15 end 65 end over                        ceoicl     ndustra    orote    pograms which operate   ndependantly-
labo   fon   in goroup of 15-6). years.                                 or as departments of secondary inetitutiocs.
en  or ce -  cceptrs (cmltive. tho) - Cumulative rcier of                    4-utItr,,rote           - li-,rteat odults (able t.o read and wits) as
bi f i   ta_ c   -n"o de  Me under auspices of rational fenily               iiiiiiagiETE        .,tcc t population aged 15 year and over.
olarring p-rore since Inception.
'amilly clanning - users (C of carie  women) - Percentages of married              'Hoesic
enmn Of child-herig ag     (-iyer)who us         bIrth-control d-vioss           Peren per romcorcs          - A-oerge comber of perso-s per room in -copied
to all married sumen ton sman  age group.                                          conoentleonl dwelliogo in roen ~aras; delnsexclude cn-cer-anent
structures and unoccupied parts.
0ccuvied dwellings without oiped ester ()-Occupied ecyonnticual dwell-
forc.... p   thouosancd) - Foonomieally cctire persons, including              Ings in urban end mrura  areas without 'Inside or outside piped water
and i    un.i)) yed but inluding housewives , students, eta.;               focillties as Percectags of all ocupied dwslltrgm.
ISft    ens in -aious countries are nout comparable.                             iAe"   to eletrOcito (    f all dwellings)   C-Coentio..1cbl dwllngs with
labor force in ocricultore()- Agritultural labor force (in farming,                   electricity In Tlvin  quarter  as percent of total dwellings in urban
forse5try, 'hatting and fishing) us Percentage of total labor force,                n   mc areas.
UceMpisTe (8oflbor force) - hiemployed are usuall2y defined as persons              Roa    s  nstcected o. electricity ()-Compu~ted as ebov           for coral
.,ho oedunle and willing to take e -,ob,  tou of a  oh on a given day,               witussc.
remined Out of a lob, ed seeking work for e specified mdnimnun
pariod not censeding ocs. week; cay not be comparable between countries
do  odifferent deinitions of mnemployed and sourc  of data, e.g.,             RadMicreceivers (cer dchc pop) - All types of recei-es for radio broad-
'eMploymectIoffice statttenis, Sample surreys, compulsory -simplaynat               cests .0 dtenwaol public per thousand of populetion; ealodes on-
Insurance.                                                                          licensed receivers in countries end i-n years when registration of
radio esta was in effect; data for recent year   may cot he comparbis
Income distribution - Percentage of prints incoms (both in cash end                   winc  -aot countries ao-lished licensing.
kind( received.by richest 5%, rinest 20%, pnrest 20%, and poorest                 Passenger car  (perthou coM) - Passeger cars comprise -etr cars seat-
l I ofPopulation,                                                                 to   ssthnsgt persons; exclu~desablacs hearse              and
military vehicles.
Diotribution .f lend uw-rship - Percentages of land owned by seaIth-                Elw-Annual c-nurrpticn of industrial, ..-etr-
tet1% ace  ocrest   o f land owners.                                          EiiLjubicFIdYi -pFtva6Wlectri-ity in kilowatt coors cer capita;
generally hosed on productico data, without ellowece far losses in
0ealti ds 'huntlceo                                                                   grids cut allowing for towrts and exports of electricity.
10iecin er.    nsiciAn   - Popualation dIvided by number of practicing              Rewetrion t(crZ  F    cc) - Per capIta -n-ua cosumption in kllogreet
f l-lan iuaii±3ed 7rcm a medical school at university level.                       esiand     rm   oetic orcduction plus net Imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197 4                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                        1966 -70           1970 -72           197 2-74
GNP at Market Prices           1422.9       100.0                         5.5                0.7               2.1
Gross Domestic Investment       189.2        13.3                         7.4              - 1.6            -  7.6
Gross National Saving           141.0         9.9                        24.8              - 5.2            - 12.2
Current Account Balance          48.2         3.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           281.1        19.8                         1.8              - 1.4            -  7.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           329.3        23.1                       - 1.1              - 0.7            - 13.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197 4
2/                           1
Value Added                   Labor Force-                    V.A. Per Worker
US$ M_         %Mln.                         %                    Us _     
Agriculture                    558.8          38.3               3.33      83.2                  168          46.0
Industry                       237.0          16.3              0.24        6.0                  988         270.7
Services                       477.8          32.7
Unallocated                    185.9          12.7              0.43       10.8                 1543         422.7
Total/Average          1459.5        100.0               4.00      100.0                  365         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(PMG B ln.)    _   % of GDP
1~07 4        1974       1970-72
Current Receipts                      49.4          14.1        16.0
Current Expenditure                   43.0          12.3        13.1
Current Surplus                        6.4           1.8         2.9
Capital Expenditures                  13.3           3.8         6.8
External Assistance                    3.3           0.9          1.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1970          1971        1972         1973         1974        1975
TBllion FM?'=Otstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      53.0           56.2         62.9        65.4         78.6       81.1
Bank credit to Public Sector             -  6.7          - 8.4        - 2.0       - 2.5          4.8       4.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector              52.6           59.7         59.5        59.8         70.0       72.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          21.5            21.2        23.1        22.7          22.4
GDP deflator                              100.0           104.0       109.4       119.6         138.0
Annual percentage changes ins
GDP deflator                               ..               4.0         5.2         9.3          15.4
Bank credit to Public Sector             -131.6           -25.4        66.7       -25.0                    - 6.3
Bank credit to Private Sector              16.7            13.4       -Q.3          0.2          17.6        3.6
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
3! Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.       "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ At market prices.
not available
.not applicable



ANNEX I
Page4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYKMENS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
972i     1973      1974                                                   US $ Mln    7%
(Millions US $)
Coffee                               58.2     28,B
Exports of Goods, NFS            234       245       281                 Vanilla                              16.5      8.2
Imports of Goods, NFS            250       255      329                  Cloves                               23.4     11.6
Resource Gap (deficit = -)        T9 _-                                  Meat and Meat Products               19.8      9.8
Fish and Shellfish                    9.8      4.9
Interest Payments (net)            2         2         2                 Sugar                                 6.7      3.3
Workers' Remittances             -32       -26       -28                 Petroleum Products                   10.8      5.4
Other Factor Payments (net)      -12       - 8      -11
Net Transfers                     41        30        37                 All other comnodities                56.6     28.0
Balance on Current Account       -17       -11       -48                       Total                         201.8    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment         19        14        11               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1974
Net HLT Borrowing
Disbursements                  11        24       18                                                             US $ Mln
Amortization                  -.9      - .       - I5
Subtotal                     -21        16        13                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                133
Capital Grants                    53        17        20                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              - 1        -       - 2                  Total outstanding & Disbursed                 133
Other items n.e.i                -78       -27       .2&                                            1/
Increase in Reserves (+)           5         9      -32                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974
Gross Reserves (end year)         52.2      67.9      49.4
Net Reserves     (end year)       63.6      81.8      69.3               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                3.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed                3.4
Imports   of   Petroleum        17.8      19.3      48.6
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (April 30/76.) (Million US $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                             IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                25.83        54.95
19721                          17194Undisbiursed                                                         6.75        34.20
IMG  1.00 = US $0.0040    FMG 1.00 - US$0.0045             240.5   Outstanding mdi                        3258         389-.15
WNG 1.00 c US$0.0042
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
June 1, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF M4ADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (As of April 30, 1976)
US$ Million
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or
hium er   Year       Borrower       Purpose             Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
Three Credits and four Loans have been fully           25.83  19.5       -
disbursed
200-MAG  1970   Madagascar     Port                           11.4-     0.8
322-MAG  1972       "          Irrigation                     15.3     10.0
if                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
351-MAG  1972                  Roads                          20.6-1    4.7
488-MAG  1974                  Railways                       6.0       3.4
506-MAG  1974                  Livestock                      9.6       9.6
525-MAG  1974                  Forestry                       6.75      5.7
1065-MAG  1974                  Forestry                6.75             6.75
TOTAL                                       32.58  89.15      40.95
of which has been repaid                    -      -
TOTAL now outstanding                       32.58   89.15
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                    -      -
3/
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA-             32.58  89.15
TOTAL undisbursed                            6.75   34.20     40.95
1/   Including a supplementary credit of US$1.8 million made in 1973.
2/   Including a supplementary credit of US$5.6 million made in September 1975.
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC investments in the Democratic Republic
of Madagascar.
C.  Projects in Execution-/
Credit No. 200-MAG - Tamatave Port Project; US$9.6 million credit of June 19,
1970; Date of Effectiveness: November 27, 1970; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977; US$1.8 million supplementary credit
of July 30, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 15,
1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project originally consisted of port extension, purchase of
cargo handling equipment, construction of a tanker terminal, and provision
of consultancy services for engineering and supervision, and technical assis-
tance. The project encountered severe cost overruns which in 1973 led to a
supplementary IDA credit. This, however, was not sufficient to finance the
entire project and the Government decided to postpone construction of the
tanker terminal. All other components of the project have been completed.
The use of the remaining funds, estimated at US$800,000, is currently under
discussion. Organizationally, the Port Authority is still weak, and operat-
ing results continue to show losses. Measures will have to be taken by the
Government to improve the present situation, and the Association is following
this matter closely.
Credit No. 322-MAG - Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million credit of June 30, 1972; Date of Effec-
tiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project as appraised consisted of the rehabilitation and exten-
sion of existing irrigation systems and aimed at increasing the production
of rice, the establishment of a large state farm for tobacco, groundnuts
and forage, and one for irrigated cotton with forage, as well as the construc-
tion and extension of villages, roads, schools and health facilities. Since
the date of the Credit Agreement, the costs of implementing the original
project have tripled, while agricultural production forecasts have decreased
substantially. The increase in costs is primarily due to worldwide inflation
and to calculation of original cost estimates for the construction of the
major civil works on the basis of preliminary engineering, then a common
practice. Detailed engineering studies indicated that the cost of civil works
was more than four times original estimates. Plans for agricultural development
were modified significantly to take account of field trial experience.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the solutions taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
The Government and the Association agreed recently to a number of
changes in the project to reflect new factors concerning the agricultural
development potential in the project area and high cost overruns, particu-
larly on the contract for the major civil works. This will allow the com-
pletion of most of the major civil works, and initial agricultural develop-
ment over about one half of the area originally projected. The Executive
Directors were informed of the changes through a Memorandum from the Presi-
dent,dated December 24, 1975 (Ref. IDA/SecM75-305).
Credit No. 351-MAG - Third Highway Project; US$15 million credit and US$15 mil-
Loan No. 876-MAG      lion loan of January 17, 1973; Date of Effectiveness:
April 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977; US$5.6
million supplementary credit of September 24, 1975; Date
of Effectiveness: February 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The major components of the project are construction works on about
350 km of primary roads in the central part of the country and consulting
services for detailed engineering of a further 200 km of primary roads.
Considerable project cost increases have been experienced as a result of
price escalation and currency realignments but physical progress and quality
of construction works under the project are generally satisfactory. To help
the Government in meeting part of the cost overruns, the Association approved
in September 1975 a supplemental credit of US$5.6 million. At that time, it
was agreed to delete one of the roads (RN1 between Arivonimamo and Analavory)
from the project and to consider including financing for its construction in
the proposed fourth highway project. The other components of the project are
nearing completion.
Credit No. 488-MAG - Railway Project: US$6.0 million credit of June 27, 1974
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1974; Closing
Date: July 31, 1978
The project is assisting in financing part of the Malagasy Railways
1973-75 investment program, services of consultants to improve the railways'
management and operations, and technical assistance to strengthen the plan-
ning cell of MTR. Procurement has been delayed about a year, and the clos-
ing date has been extended correspondingly. Because of cost overruns the
Association is financing only 4 of 20 passenger coaches originally included
in the project, and 35 of 50 freight wagons. The Caisse Centrale of France
is financing a further 11 coaches. Phase I of the management consultants'
study (by SOFRERAIL of France) has been satisfactorily completed. The rail-
ways are currently incurring financial losses, and the Government is consid-
ering the increase of tariffs. Technical assistance to MTR began in 1975
with the arrival of an international team of experts, including a Bank staff
member on secondnent.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 506-MAG - Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:
US$9.6 million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: June 17, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The four-year project will assist traditional livestock in about
2,000 villages and provide rural infrastructure. In Majunga province,
FAFIFAMA, a parastatal agency, will develop livestock extension services,
improve pasture on about 10,000 ha, construct about 300 water points, coor-
dinate the improvement of rural roads, construct village schools, and provide
mobile health units. Pilot community development, beef share fattening,
and pig programs are provided in the middle west. Technical assistance,
training and future project preparation are included. The project is complex,
involving complementary activities in several sectors, in large, sparsely-
populated areas with exceptionally poor communications.
The Project has encountered major problems in the initial year of
implementation. To date, the principal difficulties have arisen from legal
and institutional arrangements, relating to establishment and staffing of
FAFIFAMA. These problems have been further complicated by the proposed merger
of FAFIFAMA with a financially weak cattle fatterning company.    IDA and the
Government are currently working to revise the Project, to overcome the
problems, and to adjust to new developments. Substantive modifcations in
Project legal agreements and in Project design will be essential if the Project
is to be successfully implemented.
Credit No. 525-MAG - Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and US$6.75
Loan No. 1065-MAG     million credit both of December 23, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project will assist in the afforestation of 35,000 ha of pine
plantation, as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which will
eventually supply a pulp mill to provide pulp for export. It further in-
cludes fire control and maintenance of service roads and technical assis-
tance in research and training. Although the planting program is progress-
ing according to the schedule, the project faces some technical problems;
in particular growth of trees planted on slopes has been slow because of
poor soil conditions and the main species of pine planted has proved to be
susceptible to dieback. No further planting will be done on slopes, and a
greater proportion of other species will be used. Cost estimates are likely
to be exceeded because of general cost increases and the need for more inten-
sive soil preparation than was foreseen at the time of appraisal. It is as
yet too early to assess the full impact of these problems on the project.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Public Works (MTP)
Amount:                US$22.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard
Project
Description:         (a)  Reconstruction of a 67 km two-lane paved
road between Arivonimamo and Analavory
(RNI);
(b) Construction to gravel standards of a 370 km
secondary road between Tsiroanomandidy and
Maintirano;
(c) Provision of consulting services for engineering
and supervision of construction of the
Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road;
(d) Purchase of maintenance equipment, spare parts,
weigh bridges, portable scales and vehicles,
following a study to determine requirements;
and
(e) Training of the staff of the Ministry of Public
Works, following a study to determine require-
ments.
Estimated
Costs:              Total project costs are estimated at about USS31.8
million, net of taxes, including a foreign exchange
component of about US$25.6 million, or 80 percent.
Detailed costs are as follows:



ANNEX III
Page 2
Foreign
Exchange
US$ million         Compo-
Local  Foreign   Total    nent
Item                                  Cost     Cost     Cost
I. Construction:
(a)  RN 1                            3.4     5.5      8.9      62
(b) Tsiroanomandidy-
Maintirano Road:
(i) Bridges                     1.8     2.9      4.7      62
(ii) Earth works                 3.1     3.7      6.8      55
II. Engineering and
Supervision of
Construction:                     0.3      1.2     1.5      80
III. Road Maintenance:
(a)  Study of Training Needs         0.01     0.09    0.10     90
(b)  Implementation                  0.19     1.71    1.90     90
(c) Study of equipment and
spare part needs              0.01    0.09     0.10     90
(d)  Equipment and spare parts       0.39     3.61    4.00     90
(e) Weigh bridges,
portable scales
and vehicles                  0.05    0.50     0.55     90
Sub-total I-III            9.20   19.20    28.40
V. Contingencies:
(a)  Physical: 10% on I, II          0.85     1.33    2.18
(b)  Price:  22% on Ia               0.81     1.33    2.14
36% on Ib (i)           0.70    1.14     1.84
27% on Ib (ii)          1.08    0.92     2.00
20% on II and III       0.20    1.66     1.86
Sub-total IV               3.64    6.38    10.02
Total Project Cost               12.81    25.59   38.40      67
(Total Project Cost
Fxcluding Taxes)                (6.18) (25.59) (31.77)     80



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing
Plan:            The financing of the project would be shared as
follows:
Total
Cost,
Local      Foreign    net of  Percent
Cost        Cost      taxes    of Total
IDA Credit          1.4         20.6      22.0     69
BADEA Loan            -          5.0       5.0      16
Government
contribution       4.8         -          4.8     16
Total            6.2         25.6      31.8     100
Procurement
Arrangements    Contracts for reconstruction of the 67 km section of RN1,
construction of all bridges, as well as for the purchase of
maintenance equipment (other than spare parts), weigh
bridges, scales, and vehicles will be awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. Spare parts will be procured through local shopping.
For construction works a 7.5 percent preference in bid
evaluation will be allowed to local contractors. The earth
works of the Tsiroanomandidy-Mlaintirano road are not suit-
able for competitive bidding, since their scope and dis-
persion over the 370 km of the road would result in high
costs if executed by contractors. They will be carried out
by the Ministry of Public Works' force account unit.
Consultant
Services:        Consultants will assist in supervising road construction,
in implementing the training scheme, and in carrying out
a study on the need for maintenance equipment and spare
parts, weigh bridges, scales and vehicles. Consultants
will also assist in the study of DIM's operations.
A total of about 25 man-years will he required.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated
Disbursements:
Cumulative
Fiscal Year        US$ Million          US$ Million
1977              4.5                    4.5
1978               7.5                  12.0
1979              6.5                   18.5
1980               2.7                  21.2
1981               0.8                  22.0
Rate of
Return:          12.2 percent
Appraisal Report: No. 978a-MAG, dated June 3, 1976
East Africa Projects Department
Eastern Africa Region
Map:               No. IBRD 11744



IBRO 11744
A                          44                         AU                         4E                         50        AUGUST 1976
-12-                                                                                                                         12-
ir 'qDiego Suarez
MADAGASCAR                                                     g    oo
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                    NOSSI-SE
PREVIOUS HIGHWAY PROJECTS           VILLAGE LIVESTOCK PROJECT  Hell-ViIIR&d  4*  f      4  Vni,emnr
IConds NOR MAD)Amin4                    \
CONSTRUCTION      -     FEASIBILITYSTUDY    -MAJUNDAPROVINCEDEVELOPMENT         I     /
B14  ~  rsRIDGES      | DETAILEDENJGINEERING */7DU%PREPeCTURSRECEIVING          ($   /
-14'                                                INTCNSIFIED V____ETERINARY SERVI4%
EXISTING ROADS   FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT    'Zxu  PILOT DEVELOPMENT PROGRFMS MS
PAVED       .        PAVED ROAD CONSTRUCTION  -MID  WES                                         Sonbovo
ALL WEATHER                         IO       05MAY SU. Ranch,le
-------  NON-PERMANIENT      GRAVEL ROAD CONSTRUCTIONJ  -                             B    D
NON-ERMARNT  ____j                                    AVI,,DVD,0
fRAILROADS  -_---                                           iA                         .          Antaloha
.     AIRPORTS            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                        +
|' SRIVERS          -    J PREFECTURE BOUNDARIESD
9                  Ig o14
S 0   l       Mov oo 20D  250              Mn ?-                  -
KILOMETERS                      mi                                          oAisr
5J t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ona V cc tOIDcnnjr
BesED1RI        _         _     Boom
KM 0     Bn.niAe.y 'i 0sas,a  / S-tn  n banos
84~~~ ~  ~~~~ ~  ¶O4- 1\{    k-;      rf      nOC              'fIFplyETIVE In t ~ ~pd 
Mozarnb'quI e                    --d             I                NnR~         /Iy      VaVnrnInt5adhfibL
,4tanaonala ...7' TT-oV
18,                           /    )       <       w                                                 (,8   I        co
madive
0                     4,0 C                                             Q n
siroano ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Teha.Afe sot n thI mapd no
ChOnnel                   %,,, I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                         Ei Rn adIs fJIae
-20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
IfI                                                           ,
%kom.bo ~   ~    Abosny*Oca
Ant DVOIVI?R                   Ocean~~~~~~~~IPl  - \-  3,p.  b  h
T                                                               5F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MDOSA
4 2'                                                                        I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __M_ __-_y_ _ __d



