Report No. 978a4MAG
Appraisal of a Fourth Highway Project
Democratic Republic of Madagascar
june 3, 1976                                                               p
Regional Projects Department
[astern Africa Regional Office                                E         Cop
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This doc Liment has a restric ted distrihution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise he dis losed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Except as otherwise stated, all f:Lgures are quoted in U.S. Dollars (US$).
Currency Unit  =   Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$0.0047      =   FMG 1
US$1.00        =   FMG 215
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kmn)      =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)         =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)        =   2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)       2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 sq km (km2)          =   0.386 sq miles (mi2)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AM      -  Air Madagascar
CEBTP   -  Centre d'Etudes du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
Center for the Study of Public Works and Construction
DIM     -  Direction de l'Infrastructure et de Maintenance
Infrastructure and Maintenance Department
DTN     -  Direction des Travaux Neufs
New Works Department
LNTPB   -  Laboratoire Nati'onal des Travaux Publics et du Batiment
National Laboratory of Public Works and Construction
MA,T    -  Ministgre d'Amenagement du Territoire
Ministry of Works
MTP     -  Ministere des Travaux Publics
Ministry of Public Works
MTR     -  Ministere des Transports et du Ravitaillement
Ministry of Transport and Supplies
PA      -  Parcs et Ateliers
Central Workshop
RNCFM   -  Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy
Malagasy National Railway Network
SCP     -  Service Central de la Programmation
Central Planning; Service
SINPA   -  Societe d'Interet National pour les Produits Agricoles
National Agency for Agricultural Products
SINTP   -  Societe d'Intere"t National des Travaux Publics
National Public Works Agency
UCA     -  Union des Cooperatives Agricoles
Union of Agricultural Cooperatives
vpd     -  vehicles per day
DEMOCRATIC REPU'BLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR COfICIAL USC ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTHI HIGIHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    .          ................    i-ii
1. INTRODUCTION                 .       .        ...........   1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.                                        1
A.   Effects of Geography and thie Economy on
Transport , ..........       , ...................   1
B.   The Modes . ................................           2
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination            5
D.   Bank Group Projects in the Sector                       7
3.   HIGHWIVAYS .............................,.,                  8
A. Administration            ....                            8
B.   Planning ............             ..................   8
C. Financing                     ... 9
D. Engineering               ...10
E.   Construction .....          ...................  ......  10
F. Mlaintenance .                                          11
G.   Training ..................................    12
4, THE PROJECT .12
A. Objectives              ...                              12
B. Description                 ....12
C. Cost Estimates               ....16
1). Financing                  .. .. 17
E. Implementation               ....18
1F'.   Disbursements .    . .................  .           19
5.   ECONOMIIC EVALUATION           .......... .. .    19
A.   tain Benefits and Beneficiaries   .         .19
B.  Arivonimamo-Analavory Road .19
C.   Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road .20
1).   Road Maintenance Elements .21
6.   AGREIMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..........            21
This report was prepared by Frida Johansen (Transport Economist), Peter
Ludwig (Engineer), and Mustafa Nour (Economist) and was edited by Marie
Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
7.   ANNEXES
1.   Distribution of Benefits Accruing from Road Improvement
2.   Background for Eva.Luation  of the Proposed Road
Construction
3.   Draft Terms of Reference for Engineering, Management
and Supervision of Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road Construction
4.   Draft Terms of Reference for Study of Training Needs
and Implementatioi of Findings
5.   Draft Terms of Reference for a Study of DIM Reorganization
and Equipment ancl Spare Parts Needs
6.   Project Progress Re!porting Requirements
8.   TABLES
1.   The Highway Network, 1974
2.   Development of the Primary Road System, 1964-74
3.   Motor Vehicle Registration, 1958-71
4.   Fuel Consumption, 1960-73
5.   Highway Expeniditures, 1964-75
6.   Revenues from Road Users, 1971-74
7.   Highway Design Standards
8.   Estimated Schledule of Disbursements
9.   Equipment to be Procured for Force Account Works on
Tsiroanomandidy-naintirano Road
10.   Vehicle Operating Costs
11.   Economic Evaluation of Arivonimamo-Analavory Road
12.   Economic Evaluation of Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road
9. CIIARTS
1.   Organizationi of the Ministry of Public Works
2.   Organization of Ministry of Transport and Supplies
3.   Implementation Schedule
10.   MAP
Madagascar, Transport System (IBRD 11744)



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Despite recent improvements, Malagasy transport infrastructure is
fragmentary. Rugged topography translates into high construction costs which,
combined with the country's meager resources and copious development needs in
all sectors, slow the pace of higlhway network improvement. The Bank Group
has been active in accelerating this pace; since 1966, it has helped finance
construction of 649 km of roads, 535 km of which are paved. It has also as-
sisted in improving the Tamatave port and the railway system; total transport
sector lending, including studies and technical assistance, amounts to
US$63.6 million.
ii.       This will be the sixth transportation, or the fourth highway project
in Madagascar. It will continue previous development efforts by upgrading the
heavily-trafficked Arivonimamo-Analavory main road; constructing an all-weather
feeder road between Tsiroanomandidy and Maintirano to serve a now-isolated
area and connect the west coast witlh the central plateau; and identifying and
subsequently financing training, equipment and spare parts needs to improve
road maintenance.
iii.      Estimated project cost is US$31.8 million (US$25.6 million foreign
and US$6.2 million local), net of taxes and duties. The proposed US$22.0
million IDA credit would finance 100% of foreign costs and some local costs, or
69% of project costs net of taxes and duties. The Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA) will participate in the project with a US$5.0
million loan, which will finance 16% of total project cost, but is earmarked
specifically for the foreign cost of the earthworks on the Tsiroanomandidy-
Maintirano road. Government will provide US$11.4 million, or US$4.8 million
net of taxes and duties.
iv.       The Ministry of Public Works is competent and will be responsible
for project execution. Main road construction will be awarded to contractors
after international competitive bidding and will be supervised by Ministry
staff. The Eeeder road will be designed and supervised by consultants, with
earth works carried out by force account, and bridges constructed by contractors.
Consultants will examine training and equipment needs and assist itl t:raining.
Project execution is estimated to start in 1976 and finish by 1980.
v.        Road construction should result in a 12% to 16% basic economic
return, depending on the section; on average a 12% return. The main bene-
fits, decreased transport costs on the main road and access to an area with
agricultural potential where an IDA-assisted Livestoclc Project is underway,
will accrue to low-income farmers. Transport, marketing and land tenure
system structures appear adequate to foster growth and to permit fulfillment
of the possibilities the road betterment will create. The training program
and the procurement of spare parts and equipment will improve maintenance
operations which are essential to prevent deterioration of existing roads and
loss of investments.



- ii -
vi.       While overall performance under the previous highway projects has
been satisfactory, Government's adherence to some of the credit/loan
covenants has been less so. Therefore, during negotiations Government has
agreed on a program to enforce axle load regulations; to discuss annually
the appropriateness of proposed budget allocations for road maintenance;
and to provide funds as required to cover local project costs. In addition,
Government has agreed to prepare a program and implementation schedule for the
improvement of the Infrastructure and Maintenance Department's maintenance
equipment renting and spare parts supply systems; to employ consultants
under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Association; to
procure civil works and equipment: according to IDA guidelines; and to carry
out force account works under corLditions satisfactory to the Association.
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$22.0 million on the
usual terms to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Malagasy Government has requested Bank Group and BADEA as-
sistance to upgrade and expand the highway network. Several possible project
components were evaluated by the Ministry of Public Works and Bank staff.
Construction of National Road No. 1 from Arivonimamo to Analavory (RN1, 67 km)
and of the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road (370 km) and improvement of road main-
tenance were given highest priority. The RN1 section had been included under
the Third Highway Project, but when the lowest bid was 70% higher than the
appraisal estimate, upgrading to proposed standards was no longer justified.
Reduced standards were proposed, but meanwhile cost overruns in the remaining
project elements had more than absorbed available funds plus supplementary
financing to cover currency realignment effects. Thus, the section was
deleted from the project and a reduced, economically justified improvement of
RNI is included in this project. Another component is construction of the
Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road which is essential to successful completion
of a current IDA-assisted Livestock Project. Under its Credit Agreement
(506-MAG), Government gave assurances that it would upgrade the road but
because of fund shortages has requested Bank Group financing. Equally impor-
tant are the project components for improving maintenance capability, since
present low standards endanger preservation of investments. Provision is
made to identify and provide needed maintenance training, road maintenance
equipment, spare parts, portable scales and weighbridges. BADEA selected
the earthworks of the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road for their assistance.
1.02      The Third Highway Project financed detailed engineering for the
Antsohihy-Ambanja road with the expectation that construction would be under-
taken under a following project. However, consultants adopted design
standards above requirements resulting in high cost estimates. The works
as designed are not justified and the consultants are presently reviewing
the possibility of reducing the standards and finding a more economic road
alignment. Since the road's priority is lower than the components of the
proposed project, construction has been postponed.
1.03      This report is based on information from the Livestock Project
appraisal report (Credit 506-MAG), on Ministry of Public Works studies, and
on the findings of a. appraisal mission comprised of Frida Johansen (Transport
Economist), Peter Ludwig (Engineer), Mustafa Nour (Economist) and Peter Blom
(Agriculturalist, Consultant) which visited Madagascar in April 1975. The
report was edited by Marie Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor).
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and the Economy on Transport
2.01      The world's fourth largest island, Madagascar (590,000 km ) lies
in the Indian Ocean 400 km off the east coast of Africa, from which it is



- 2 -
rather isolated economically and culturally. Its climate is marine tropical;
frequent cyclones and heavy rainfall, particularly on the east coast, periodi-
cally disrupt transport and the economy.
2.02      The population, estimated at 8.3 million and growing at 3% p.a.,
is 90% rural and engaged in the agricultural sector. Althouigh more than half
the annual production (mainly rice) is used for subsistence, agricultural
products (chiefly coffee, spices, and meat) account for about 80% of the
value of Malagasy exports. The country will continue to rely on agriculture
since industry, which accounts for 10% of GDP, is at an early stage of
development, and the numerous known mineral deposits are not commercially
important, except for chromite iand graphite. Average per capita income has
increased by less than 1% p.a. since 1960 and is currently about UTS$150 p.a.
Available data indicate that there has been little economic growth since 1972.
In view of the various political and social changes which have occurred since
then, it will probably take some time for the economy to reach a substantial
rate of growth.
2.03      The Malagasy population is unevenly distributed.  Although average
density is 14 persons/km2, it can be as low as 2 or as high as 25. Half the
population is located on a quarter of the island's surface, in the central
Tananarive and Fianarantsoa provinces. Almost no one lives in the surrounding
regions, but nearing the sea concentrations are again found, especially on the
east coast. This distribution is determined by Madagascar's physical config-
uration, rugged topography, and climate. These factors, together with a lack
of suitable construction materials, inhibit infrastructure construction and
maintenance which, in turn, reinforce the relative isolation of the less
populated regions. An adequate transport system is lacking, notwithstanding
considerable progress in this sector in the last 15 years.  Transport needs
are relatively well served only on the central plateau, with Tananarive city
generating or absorbing half of the country's commodity flows. Other populated
areas are served mainly, if not only by coastal shipping. If the agricultural
potential of presently unpopulated areas is to be realized, considerable road
improvement and expansion are required, even though expansion may appear onlv
marginally justified because of the sluggishness of service area and traffic
development.
B. The Modes
2.04      At present, the transport system comprises about 32,000 km of roads,
of which 4,000 km are paved; two unconnected railway systems totalling 880 km;
15 main ports, of which 11 are suitable only for lighterage; and 59 airfields,
of which 17 are all-weather standard.
Roads and Transport
2.05      Network.  A 1974 inventory of the road network is included in Table 1,
and Table 2 shows primary system development since 1964.  The paved highway



network, begun around 1950, consists of a main north-south artery intercon-
necting Fianarantsoa, Antsirabe, Tananarive, and Majunga; an east-west road
linking Moramanga-Tananarive and Tsiroanomandidy; and several short stretches
around the major coastal towns. Other roads are generally low standard, narrow,
badly aligned and often have weak, obsolete structures; heavy rains make many
roads impassable half the year. The north and part of the west have no all-
weather land connections to the rest of the island; although links to the
southern region are mere trails, the dry climate contributes to year-round
serviceability. Average density, considering all road types, is 54 m/km2.
2.06      Traffic.  The vehicle fleet is composed of about 60,000 units, more
than half of which are cars (Table 3). About half the fleet is registered in
Tananarive, but the average of 135 inhabitants/vehicle is representative
throughout the country. Traffic volume on paved roads is less than 75 vpd on
some sections but reaches more than 1,000 vpd near main cities. On other
roads, flows range up to a maximum of 50 vpd. According to counts taken from
1965 to 1972, road traffic has grown about 5% p.a. and near 10% on paved
roads; this is corroborated to some extent by a similar growth in the estimated
fleet and a 7% p.a. increase in fuel consumption (Tables 3 and 4). In 1971,
about 1,000 million vehicle-km were driven, half by light vehicles in the
towns and surrounding areas; trucks of more than 2 tons accounted for only
7% of the total. About 135 million vehicle-km were run on earth roads. Ap-
parently, since 1972, however, traffic growth has slowed, as has the rest of
the economy.
2.07      Road Transport Industry.  This industry consists mainly of numerous
highly competitive small carriers and cooperatives, a few large companies,
and traders. Almost no regulations or restrictions are imposed on providing
services; the main exception is a 5.5 ton vehicle load limit on the Tananarive-
Tamatave road to protect the railway from road competition. As a whole, tariffs
are close to costs. Ton-km tariffs vary from FMG 10 to FMG 125, according to
road condition, season, and demand; passenger-km tariffs by taxi-be 1/ vary
from FMG 2.70 on good paved roads to FMG 10 on earth roads. Services are
generally provided near or below cost ou paved roads where competition is
stiff, but high tariffs are charged for the few services provided on poor
roads. For additional details see Annex 1, Section B.
Railways
2.08      Infrastructure.  The country is served by two unconnected railway
systems between Antsirabe and Tamatave and from Fianarantsoa to the east coast
at Manakara, totalling 880 km. They were constructed before 1920 and are
operated by the Government-owned Malagasy National Railway Network (RNCFM),
under the Ministry of Transport and Supplies (MTR). The RNCFM operates under
quasi-monopoly conditions (para. 2.19).
2.09      Traffic.  From 1967 to 1971, freight traffic grew at 13% p.a. and
in 1971 was more than one million tons, or about 300 million ton-km. The
1/   Cars which provide bus-type service and which are more common than buses.



- 4 -
increase was partly due to the opening of a chromite mine near Vohidiala.
Reflecting general economic trends in the country, traffic declined on all
lines during 1972 and 1973, and about 250 million ton-km were carried in the
latter year. In 1974 traffic increased slightly. Petroleum products, chromite,
rice, cement, empty bottles and containers account for more than 60% of traf-
fic. On the other hand, passenger transport has grown continuously since
1969, and more than 3 million passengers, 244 million passenger-km, were trans-
ported in 1974. The 375 km secticon from Tananarive to Tamatave carries 75%
of freight-km and 50% of passenger-km.
2.10      Tariffs are based on commodity values and range from FMG 15 per
ton-km for less than a carload of general freight to FMG 3 for chromite.
Passenger fares per km are RIG 5.90 (US$.027) first class and second class,
FMG 2.95 (US$.014). However, fares on the Tananarive-Antsirabe line are
lower because of strong road competition. Tariffs have remained almost
unchanged since 1964, and operations show a deficit. A 1974 R4CFM proposal
to increase freight rates by 25% and passenger fares by 18% is, however, still
awaiting approval.
Waterways, Ports and Navigation
2.11      Infrastructure.  Inland water transport is limited by a lack of
navigable rivers. The exception is the Pangalanes Canal which is used to
move agricultural products along the east coast. Fifteen ports are classified
as imain", even though most are suitable only for lighterage. MTR gives con-
cessions to private enterprises to operate the ports under MTR-established port
authorities. Tamatave became the only autonomous port in January 1972 at Bank
Group suggestion, under a project which provided for the port's extension and
improvement (para. 2.24).
2.12      Traffic.  Most imports and exports are moved by sea.  Shipping along
the 4,000 km coast is also important, since it is the only means of transporting
freight between many areas. Tonnage has steadily increased by 3% p.a. since
1969 and import tonnage is double that of exports; about 1.8 million tons were
imported or exported in 1973. Tamatave handles 78% of this traffic, and four
other ports, the rest. Coastal tonnage has increased about 6% p.a. since 1969,
despite the portst unfavorable natural features and climatic conditions, espe-
cially on the east coast, and despite poor services, e.g., only one boat per
month between such major ports as Majunga and Nossi-Be. About 380,000 tons
were moved by coastal shipping in 1973, of which 50% was sent from Tamatave
and 30% received in Majunga, with the broad participation of the remaining
13 ports. There are several coastal companies, but only Societe Malgache
d'Activites, de Participations et d'Affretements (SOMAPAMAR), 51% Government-
owned, is authorized to serve the whole coast. Tariffs are established by
the private sector, based on length of trip and port category, and are lower
for essential commodities. The fleet consists of 250 registered sail boats
and 25 cargo ships, only 5 of which have a carrying capacitv above 400 tons.
150-ton landing craft 1/ are being introduced to overcome the lack of ports.
1/   The hulls of these boats are specially shaped so that they can dock on
an ordinary sandy beach.



-5-
Airports and Civil Aviation
2.13      Infrastructure.  Internal air transport is important in a country
the size of Madagascar, with its many isolated regions. Accordingly, there
are 59 airports, including 17 all-weather airports and 5 appropriate for inter-
national traffic. All are operated and administered by MTR. More than 50% of
all air traffic is handled by Ivato Airport at Tananarive.
2.14      Traffic.  Most air services are provided by the 60% Government-
owned and 40% Air France-owned Air Madagascar (AM), which has a virtual mono-
poly over scheduled air services. Landing rights have been denied to inter-
national carriers, except Alitalia, and only a few private aero clubs undertake
non-scheduled internal flights. AM's fleet comprises 21 aircraft, including
one 737 for internal services; two 737's for regional use; one 707 for long
distance; and 15 small airplanes for agricultural spraying. This fleet is
expected to be adequate for the next 10 years' needs, especially since average
occupancy is only slightly above 50% and most aircraft were acquired recently.
2.15      After a precarious start in 1969, AM has greatly expanded services
and become increasingly viable; in 1973 it carried 264 million passenger-km
and 9 million ton-km. The company provides internal services on 52 scheduled,
regular stops. Forty of these account for only 20% of traffic and produce
losses but are subsidized and continued for social reasons and for lack of an
alternative surface transport infrastructure. In 1973, 63 million passenger-
km and 2 million ton-km (or 158,000 passengers and 4,600 tons) were carried
internally; volume increases since 1969 have been 13% and 9% p.a., respectively.
The company also undertakes regional flights, which logged 37 million passenger-
km and 2 million ton-km in 1973 (21% and 15% growth p.a., respectively), and
long distance flights to Europe, which in 1973 carried 164 million passenger-
km (a decrease of 25% compared to 1971) and 5 million ton-km. These flights
are the most profitable and cover losses on internal routes. Minor activities
are spraying services, mainly insecticides for cotton fields, and car rentals
at main airports.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.16      Government has endorsed the 1973-77 Development Plan's broadly
outlined transport policy objectives. Further, the "Charter of the Revolution",
dated August 1975, indicates that it is considered essential to: a) connect
regional capitals gradually by all-weather roads; b) construct the Tananarive-
Moramanga-Tamatave road; c) maintain the road network effectively and d) re-
view the transport organization to improve services. The Corps of Engineers
of the Army, a "Youth Army" and the Fokonolonas 1/ are to assist in road
1/   Organized under elders' leadership, a Fokonolona is the traditional
village group, the dominant social organization and a powerful influence
on social and economic issues. Government expects these groups to play
a development role similar to that of the "ujamaa" villages in Tanzania.



- 6 -
building and maintenance. Although highways have priority ranking in the
plan, budgetary constraints are severe and, as a result, Government is under-
taking projects only on an annual basis according to fund availability. Bank
Group sector lending would not be feasible at this time because of these
contraints.
2.17      Twice after recent political changes, Government departments res-
ponsible for transport policy implementation have been administratively reor-
ganized. In 1972, the Ministry of Works and Communications was replaced by
the Ministry of Works (MAT).  In Februarv 1975, the short-lived MAT was split
into three ministries: the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications; the
Ministry of Public Works (MTP), responsible mainly for infrastructure con-
struction and maintenance (Chart 1); and the MTR, responsible for transport
regulations and basic goods supply planning; RNCFM and AM are attached to
it (Chart 2), However, transport rates proposed by MTR are approved by the
Ministry of Finance which also establishes taxes on transport activities;
transport fiscal receipts go mainly to general revenues.  Both MTP and MTR
transport plans are reviewed by the Ministry of Planning, which is responsible
for sector coordination although, in fact, there has been little coordination,
partly due to a lack of clearly defined programs in any sector.
2.18      In addition, Madagascar lacks sufficient qualified transport experts
to assess the increasingly complex technical and economic issues involved in
planning and coordination, such Ets stage construction, modal allocation or
transport regulations and taxation. MAT's Central Planning Services (SCP) has
remained under MTP and is now responsible for coordination among the different
departments of the MTP, for MTP's annual budget proposals and for highway
planning. MTR has no general planning unit but is being strengthened by the
IDA-financed transport planning team which was originally assigned to MAT
(Credit 488-MAG); this team, which has been fully operational since late
1975, will work in close collaboration with Government officials who, it is
hoped, will be able to take charge when the team leaves.
2.19      Because of high construction costs and low traffic levels, the
upgrading of main roads should be coordinated with the needs of other sectors,
as well as with a program to close some minor ports wiose traffic would be
carried by road to and from main ports. These tasks will be undertaken by the
planning team. Up to now, there has been little need for modal coordination
since the system's stage of development affords little possibility of competition,
except in the Tananarive-Tamatave corridor where preference has been given
to RNCFM by not upgrading the roacd to all-weather standard and by imposing
a 5.5-ton truck load limit. Noneltheless, traffic has increased. The first
step seems to be to decrease the railway monopoly. Government now is prepared
to take this action, realizing that the railway cannot cope with present
traffic volume and that road construction would reduce total transport costs.
According to a feasibility study undertaken by SETEC (consultants, France) in
1973 (Credit 90-MAG), the alignmernt via Anjozorobe-Ambatondrazaka would
maximize the return on investment, but Government instead intends to construct
the road parallel to the railway track, via Brickaville, with assistance from
the People's Republic of China.



- 7 -
2.20      As is apparent from the description of transport modes, Government
relies on parastatal entities to provide public transport services in every
sphere except road transport: rail and air (quasimonopolistic) and long
distance and coastal shipping (in competition with the private sector). Road
transport, on the other hand, is virtually unrestricted, but increased control
and a parastatal trucking organization are envisaged (Annex l, Section B).
Govermuent has asked the IDA-financed planning team to study these matters also.
D. Bank Group Projects in the Sector
2.21      The Bank Group began transport activities in the country in 1966.
The First Highway Project (Credit 90-MAG, US$10.0 million) provided for recon-
struction to paved standards of two sections of the Tananarive-Majunga road,
totalling 145 km. The works were completed satisfactorily. A surplus re-
mained under the credit, part of which was used to finance engineering and
feasibility studies of high priority road sections; the studies were satis-
factorily completed by mid-1973.
2.22      The Second Highway Project (Credit 134-MAG/Loan 570-MAG, 1968,
US$8.0 million) helped finance reconstruction of two roads to paved standards,
Fanjakamandroso-Tsiroanomandidy (55 km) and Ambilobe-Ambanja (91 km), and
construction of three major bridges, one near Ambanja and two in the vicinity
of Tamatave. These works have also been satisfactorily completed, although
changes in the design of one road, due to unexpectedly difficult materials
problems which were not revealed until work was well underway, resulted in a
27% increase over the original project cost estimate.
2.23      The Third Highway Project (Credit 351/Loan 896-MAG, 1973/75, US$35.6
million) provided for construction of 417 km of primary roads, detailed engi-
neering of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road and a review of the traffic counting
system. Construction of RN44 from Vohidiala to Ambatondrazaka (24 km paved)
was completed in late 1974; work is nearing completion on RN34 from Antsirabe
to Malaimbandy (220 km paved and 114 km gravel). RN1, from Arivonimamo to
Analavory, was deleted from the project and is included in this one. Detailed
engineering of the Antsohihy-Ambanja road has been completed to standards
above requirements and is being revised. No action has been taken regarding
the traffic counting system, but the planning team provided under the railway
project will look into it.
2.24      In addition, there was a port project (Credit 200-MAG, 1970, US$9.6
million) which provided for the extension of Tamatave Port, construction of
a tanker terminal, creation of the Tamatave Port Authority, and technical
assistance for management personnel and training. The port extension was
completed in 1974; the Tamatave Port Authority has been established but needs
improvement; the question of whether or not to proceed with the tanker
terminal is under review in light of higher-than-estimated costs.



- 8 -
2.25      A railways project, the latest in the country (Credit 488-MAG, 1974,
US$6.0 million), provides for a 60 km main track renewal, a few buildings, some
freight and passenger wagons, and consulting services to RNCFM and MAT. This
project is being executed behindi schedule; cost increases have reduced the
number of wagons to be purchased.
3. HIGHWAYS
A. Administration
3.01      MTP has been responsible for highway administration (Chart 1) since
MAT was reorganized in 1975. The split-up involved no major changes in per-
sonnel or lines of authority. The New Works Department (DTN) of MTP is in
charge of new construction and the Infrastructure and Maintenance Department
(DIM) is responsible for highway maintenance. The functional organization is
adequate.
3.02      Staffing, on the contrary, is not adequate.  Most of the French
experts left the country after the 1972 revolution. Of the 60 then in the
MAT Public Works Department, only seven remain in the present MTP. The
resulting gap has not affected new construction, design or supervision, where
use of consultants is possible, but maintenance has deteriorated because the
Malagasy staff is inadequately trained. Government is preparing nationals
to fill positions formerly occup:ied by expatriates and, to assist in this,
the project will help finance a study of training needs and subsequent
implementation of its findings (para. 4.07).
3.03      The roads under MTP are administratively classified as national
(primary, or main) and provincial (secondary). Road regulations set vehicle
weight and dimensions, inspection, speed limits, and vehicle and driving
licenses. Vehicle dimensions and! weight regulations are generally adequate
(allowing loads up to 10 tons/axle, except on some paved road sections or
bridges). However, enforcement of these ordinances, the responsibility of
the national police, is lacking. This is a serious problem, especially with
the trend to increase vehicle dimensions and to overload units. To alleviate
this, the project will help finance procurement of portable scales, necessary
vehicles and, after a weighing campaign with the former, permanent weigh-
bridges on strategic sites (para. 4.09).
B. Plannning
3.04      A highway master plan (Plan de l'An 2000) drawn up in 1961 by
the Bureau Central d'Etudes pour Les Equipements d'Outre Mer (BCEOM, France),
in cooperation with Government ofiicials, was geared to linking major pop-
ulation centers with paved roads; the plan was based on political and adminis-
trative considerations. However, since 1972 Government has recognized that
secondary road construction to open areas with good agricultural potential



-9-
also has high priority. This concern is reflected in Government's request
that this project include construction of the low-standard Tairoanomandidy-
Maintirano road.
3.05      Highway planning is the responsibility of the SCP, in cooperation
with DTN. However, because SCP is poorly staffed, Government engages con-
sultants to evaluate major highway projects. The IDA-financed planning
team, which has taken up its duties within MTR, will assist SCP in establishing
priorities for improving and maintaining the road network. This team will also
study traffic counting needs and propose a counting system. Counts of dubious
reliability were recorded from 1965 to 1972, and although the Third Highway
Project included a provision to improve traffic counts, they were discontinued
because adequate personnel was lacking.
C. Financing
3.06      Yearly expenditures in the highway sector amount to about US$10
million for recurrent expenses and US$30 million for investment. Total
expenditures have been declining in real terms since 1969 (Table 5). Since
1971, yearly fiscal revenues from road users have been declining even in
nominal terms and were only about US$33 million in 1973 (Table 6). These
revenues amount to about 85% of total highway expenditures, but allocations
for highway expenditures are not related to road user revenues. Administration
and road maintenance are financed out of the general budget and upgrading and
new construction from the development budget, which since 1972 includes a
small amount for secondary road construction under the "programme de relance
economique". 70% of the development budget consists of grants and credits
from bilateral and multilateral aid programs; the remaining 30% is the local
contribution for these programs. Since 1966, the Bank Group has contributed
a yearly average of about US$4 million to the highway sector. Other agencies
or donor countries are: the European Development Fund, France, the Federal
Republic of Germany and Italy.
3.07      Inadequacies in Government's budget and payment procedures cause
difficulties. A budget is prepared by MTP and submitted to the Ministry of
Finance for approval by the Government. The latter, due to financial
constraints and priorities, regularly allocates less funds than requested.
Sometimes, budgeted funds are not made available to MTP when requested; for
instance, execution of the Third Highway Project was endangered because
Government's financial constraints precluded timely payments of the local
currency part of contracts. In 1975 contractors had reached the ceiling of
credit availability at local banking institutions and only the expedition
of direct payment for the foreign currency part of the contract enabled them
to continue temporarily until local currency payments were made. However,
the Government has now redressed its payment default to contractors, made
appropriate allocations for remaining works under the Third Highway Project
and agreed to provide funds as needed for implementation of this fourth
highway project.



- 10 _
D. Engineering
3.08      Up to 1972, most of the preliminary design, detailed engineering
and construction supervision, even of major road projects, had been carried
out by the Central Technical Services of the former MAT, corresponding to
DTN in the present MTP organization. However, with the gradual departure of
French experts, MTP has relied increasingly on consulting services. The
National Laboratory of Public Works and Construction (LNTPB), a financially
autonomous agency of MTP managed by the Center for the Study of Public Works
and Construction (CEBTP, France), is still capable of carrying out all
necessary soil investigations and material tests for highway design construc-
tion and supervision.
3.09      The design standards adopted by MTP are appropriate (Table 7).  The
rural road standards are well-suited to the traffic levels and the sometimes
difficult terrain. Primary road network design standards should be applied
flexibly in accordance with economic conditions, traffic levels and terrain,
which vary considerably from region to region.
E. Construction
3.10      Major road projects are executed by contractors which are either
local subsidiaries of French or Italian firms or foreign firms. A domestic
contracting industry for highway construction has not developed, due to lack
of professional skills and scarcity of capital and credit facilities. Initial
Government efforts to encourage private domestic contractors have been
abandoned. Instead in early 1974 the capital-financed National Public Works
Agency (SINTP) was created as an independent and financially autonomous corpo-
ration whose sole stockholder is the Government, and it was equipped, with
US$9 million worth of equipment, to compete with local and foreign contractors.
A first contract, for the reconstruction of RN3 between Ankzondandy and
Anjozorobe (42 km), was negotiated between MTP and SINTP in October 1974 for
about US$5 million. SINTP's performance under this contract is being watched
to see whether it could be prequalified for international competitive bidding
for Bank Group-financed projects. A force account construction unit within
the MTP maintenance department carries out earth works and gravelling of
secondary roads; its performance, although hampered by insufficient equipment,
is satisfactory.
3.11      Usually, construction contracts are awarded on the basis of local or
international competitive bidding. Administrative procedures for bidding
and contract award follow well-established and appropriate regulations; work
specifications are comprehensive and precise. Construction supervision is
carried out either by DTN or by consulting engineers as its representatives.
DTN's dealings with contractors are generally satisfactory but sometimes
strained because the Ministry of Finance does not disburse payments due under
budgeted and approved contracts (para. 3.07).



- 11 -
F. Maintenance
3.12      Maintenance of the primary highway network and, since 1973, of the
secondary network is the responsibility of the DIM in the MTP. In each
arrondissement 1/, DIM has a division whose subdivisions and sections execute
the maintenance (Chart 1). In line with the decentralization policy, it is
intended to give more responsibility to the divisions, which then would report
directly to the Secretary General and receive technical advice from DIM. In
addition to DIM, the Malagasy Army's Corps of Engineers carries out limited
local road maintenance and has recently received a loan of about US$4 million
from the Federal Republic of Germany to purchase road maintenance equipment.
Tertiary road and track maintenance is the responsibility of the Fokonolona,
whose individual efficiency and motivation determine maintenance quality,
which varies considerably from village to village and is generally inadequate.
3.13      DIM maintenance operations are largely mechanized.  Equipment avail-
ability is below requirements, in some cases simply due to lack of spare
parts. Equipment is procured, distributed and repaired by the well-equipped
Central Workshop (PA) in Tananarive, under DIM authority but financially
autonomous. PA rents equipment to the divisions and subdivisions and charges
for operating costs but not for the time equipment is idle. Thus, there is
little incentive to minimize idle equipment time; each superintendent requests
as much equipment as possible and retains what is obtained even if it is
no longer needed or funds are not on hand to operate it. In addition, sub-
divisions are not authorized to exchange equipment directly among each other,
which could reduce total requirements. Minor repairs, the responsibility of
divisional workshops, are often neglected or cannot be made due to lack of
spares.  Since present procedures are wasteful, the project provides financing
for a study on how to improve DIM*s organization, its equipment renting
system and the spare parts supply system (para. 4.08).
3.14      Budget allocations for road maintenance have been insufficient in
recent years; in 1974 maintenance expenditures per km for the primary highway
network averaged US$250 for paved roads and US$650 for unpaved. Updated
figures from a 1966 BCEOM maintenance study indicate that yearly expenditures
per km should be about US$450 for a paved road and US$1,100 for an unpaved
one, plus administrative costs. Furthermore, allocated funds are not avail-
able on time. The present Government recognizes the priority of road main-
tenance (para. 2.16) and has increased the budget allocation in 1976 (Table 5).
Even so, because of the backlog, additional funds are required for spare parts
to rehabilitate existing equipment and for equipment renewal. Therefore,
the study mentioned in para. 3.13 will also determine spare parts and equip-
ment needs, and the project will also assist in financing procurement of the
elements identified (para. 4.08). During negotiations, it was agreed in a
side letter that, in the future, the Association and the Government will
annually discuss the appropriateness of proposed budget allocations for road
maintenance.
1/  Administrative unit of a province.



- 12 -
G. Training
3.15      After professional training abroad (usually in France), about two
engineers a year are recruited inlto MTP Central Services for relatively high-
ranking positions. The Higher Technical Teaching Institute (Etablissement
d'Enseignement Superieur Polytechnique) of the Malagasy University yields
about 10 civil engineers per year who are mainly recruited by the Administra-
tion as division or subdivision chiefs. While the curriculum and number of
engineers graduated appear adequate, most graduates lack practical experience
and management training, which are indispensable to running a division or sub-
division efficiently. The 30 technical assistants who graduate annually from
technical high schools either continue their studies at university or are
employed in the administration as section chiefs or deputy division chiefs.
Practical engineering experience and personnel management training are
completely missing, even though a chief may supervise as many as 60 persons.
3.16      The MTP training center (Centre de Maitrise des Ponts et Chaussees)
was created in 1963 and has since trained road supervisors, foremen, equip-
ment operators and mechanics. 84 were trained in 1971, but only 18 in 1974,
and the center has been closed since 1975 for lack of teachers and operating
funds. Since MTP's maintenance operations are seriously affected by the
shortage of skilled staff, assistatnce will be provided under the project to
identify training needs and implement an agreed-upon training program (para.
4.07).
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project will assist Government in reducing transport costs on
a heavily trafficked road, in opening up for development areas with high
agricultural potential, and in improving overall road maintenance quality.
B. Description
4.02      The project consists of:
(i) reconstruction of the two-lane paved National
Road No. 1 between Arivonimamo and Analavory
(RN1), 67 km;
(ii) construction to gravel standards of the
secondary-feeder roacl between Tsiroanomandidy
and Maintirano, 370 Icm;



- 13 -
(iii) consulting services to supervise (i) and to
engineer, manage and supervise construction
of (ii); and
(iv) road maintenance elements comprising:
a)   a study of MTP training needs to improve
maintenance;
b)   implementation of the study's recommenda-
tions;
c)   a study of DIM's operational organization,
including the spare parts distribution and
equipment renting systems, in order to improve
equipment availability; and of DIM's equipment,
in order to determine the need for spare parts
and additional road maintenance equipment;
d)   procurement of the spare parts and equipment
identified in c) above; and
e)   procurement of portable scales and vehicles,
and weighbridges.
(i)       Reconstruction of RN1 (67 km)
4.03      Reconstruction of this road had been included in the Third Highway
Project; it was later deleted because of substantial cost overruns of ongoing
components in that project. The reconstruction of this road, which was paved
between 1952 and 1956, continues to have high priority and is therefore in-
cluded in the project. For the purpose of analysis and design the road has
been divided into three sections:
Section A: (19.5 km 1/ from Arivonimano to Pk 65.6) This section has
a poor alignment with continuous narrow curves and a poor-to-regular surface.
There are two decaying major bridges which have to be replaced if the road
is to carry expected future traffic. The overall condition of this section
is too poor to justify a mere improvement of the existing road. Therefore
a new alignment has been selected, resulting in a distance saving of 3.2 km;
furthermore, 2 km of this alignment, from Arivonimamo to the Arivonimamo
airport are already paved and in good condition. The remaining 14.3 km will
be constructed to two-lane paved standards as set out in Table 7.
Section B:  (30.4 km 1/ from Pk 65.6 to Pk 96)  The existing align-
ment and base on this section are adequate. Construction works will there-
fore be limited to an overlay with a 4 cm bituminous premix, improvement of
1/ Length of existing road.



- 14 -
draining and drainage structures and reconstruction of one major bridge.
Pavement width averages about 5 m, 50 cm less than provided for in the general
design standards for the primary road network. The 5 m pavement width is,
however, judged adequate to accommodate, without major impediment, expected
traffic over the 20-year life of the road.
Section C: (24.0 km 1/ from Pk 96 to Analavory) The alignment of
this road section is generally adequate, but due to difficult soils and
traffic, pavement is so deteriorated that strengthening by bituminous overlay
is not possible. The road will therefore be reconstructed on the existing
alignment with some minor improvements in geometric standards, which will
reduce the present length by 1.7 kXm.
4.04      DTN has prepared the detailed engineering and tender documents for
this road and will carry out construction supervision in close cooperation
with LNTPB. For further details of the project road, see Annex 2, Section A.
(ii)      Construction of the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road (370 km)
4.05      The present link between Tsiroanomandidy and Maintirano, about 390
km, is almost impassable even by four-wheel drive vehicles in dry season.
Alignment follows water sheds and presents numerous curves; it crosses many
rivers, including three major ones. Only one has a bridge and all other
rivers and streams have to be waded across, which is possible only four
months of the year. About 100 km from Tsiroanomandidy to Ambaravanala have
been recently improved to a 6 m wide earth road; the following 140 km to
Morafenobe is only a track presenting gradients up to 20%, and the remaining
150 km from Morafenobe to Maintirano is an earth road about 4.5 m wide.
The road will be constructed to all-weather gravel standards as set out in
Table 7. It will connect Tsiroancmandidy, Ambaravanala, Beravina, Bemahata-
zana and Maintirano and provide access to Morafenobe from Bemahatazana. The
alignment was chosen following investigations by MTP's Central Planning
Services, with preappraisal mission assistance. About 120 km of the proposed
alignment runs through rather difficult and rugged topography and the remain-
ing 250 km through flat to rolling terrain. Several major bridges will be
built to one-lane width which is adequate for present and future traffic. For
more details of the road areas see Annex 2, Section B.
(iii)     EngineeriTg, Management and Supervision Consulting Services
4.06      For the low-standard, low-cost Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road, the
expense of full engineering, including working drawings and bills of quanti-
ties, is not justified. DTN has undertaken only preliminary investigation
on the basis of aerial photography, and engineering will be carried out by
consultant's site staff ahead of construction as it proceeds, under their
management (para 4.16). Agreement has been reached during negotiations that
the consultants will be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association (Annex 3).
1/   Length of existing road.



- 15 -
(iv)      Road Maintenance Elements
4.07      Training.  Because maintenance performance is hampered by lack of
experienced and qualified technical personnel (paras. 3.02 and 3.16), Govern-
ment agreed during negotiations to employ consultants, under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank Group (Annex 4) to study MTP training needs,
giving particular attention to maintenance. The study should make proposals
concerning the employment of training officers, training methodologies,
didactic equipment procurement, the re-opening of MTP's training center,
and/or creation of new decentralized training facilities throughout the coun-
try. The recommendations the study makes will be reviewed by Government and
the Association and an agreed-upon program will be implemented, possibly with
the assistance of the same consultants who carry out the study.
4.08      Spare Parts and Equipment.  Maintenance performance has also been
hampered by inadequate operational systems (para. 3.13) and by budgetary
constraints (para. 3.14). Concerning the former, the Government agreed during
negotiations that it will, not later than December 31, 1977, prepare in con-
sultation with the Association a work program and implementation schedule to
reorganize DIMts maintenance equipment renting system and improve the organi-
zation's spare parts supply system. To facilitate this, the Government also
agreed that consultants, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, will be financed under this project to study present operations
and to make recommendations for their improvement (Annex 5). Regarding bud-
getary constraints, which are reflected in depleted spare parts stocks and
almost no equipment renewal during recent years, Vhe Government agreed to
include in the above-mentioned terms of reference a study of spare parts
and additional equipment needs. The study's recommendations will be reviewed
by the Government and the Association, and an agreed list of goods will then
be procured under the credit to ease the serious shortage.
4.09      Axle-load control.  Though adequate regulations exist, axle-load
control is not enforced (para. 3.03). During negotiations, the Government
agreed (a) to take all measures reasonably required to ensure that the di-
mensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national highway network shall
not exceed limits consistent with the design standards for such roads, and
(b) not later than December 31, 1976, exchange views with the Association
on its proposed program for implementing the measures. To assist Government
in this, the project provides financing for the portable scales and vehicles
required for a year-long axle-weighing campaign on the paved network to deter-
mine the sites where permanent weighbridges, also to be procured under the
project, should be installed.



- 16 -
C, Cost Estimates
4.10          Total  project  costs  are  estimated  at  US$38.4  million  including
taxes (US$31.8 million net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange
component of US$25.6 million, or 67%. Detailed costs are as follows:
X        Financineg 
FMG niillion                US$ million       Foreign   US$ million
Item                        Local  Fcreign Total   Local  Foreign Total  Costs  IDA  BADEA-  Gov't
I.  Construction:
a)  RN 1                          722   1,178   1,900        3.36   5.48   8.84    62   6.15          -    2.69
b)  Tsiroanomandidy-
Maintirano Road:
i)   Bridges                  380      520   1,000      1.77   2.88   4.65    62   3.25           -    1.40
ii)  Earthworks               664      798   1,462       3.09   3.71   6.80    55        -      3.60  3.20
1I.  Engineering and Super-
vision of Construction:             64     :256      320    0.30  -1.19   1.49    80   1.19           -    0.30
III.  Road Maintenance
a)  Study of Training Needs          2       18       20    0.01   0.08   0.09         90   0.08      -    0.01
b)  Implementation                 40      :160      400    0.19   1.67   1.86    90   1.67           -    0.19
c)  Study of Equipment and
Spare Part Needs                2       20       22    0.01   0.09   0,.10    90   0.09          -    0.01
d)  Equipment and Spare Parts  84           776      860    0.39   3.61   4.00    90   3.61           -    0.39
e)  Weighbridges, Portable
Scales and Vehicles            10      1.08     118     0.05   0.50   0.55        90   0.50    -       0.05
Sub-total I-IIIl    1,968   4,134   6,1052-   9.17  19.21  28.38                 16.54   3.60  8.24
'IV. Contingencies:
a)  Physical: 10% on 1,11    183          235       468     0.85   1.33   2.18             1.06   0.35  0.77
b)  Price: 22% on Ia             175      235       460    0.81   1.33   2.14               1.50     -    0.64
36% on Ib (i)       150       245      395    0.70   1.14   1.84               1.29     -    0.55
27% on Ib (ii)      232       198      430     1.08   0.92   2.00               -      1.05  0.95
20% on II and
ITI                  43       357      400    0.20   1.66   1.86               1.61     -    0.25
Sub-total IV                 783   1,370   2,153    3.64   6.38  10.02                 5.46    1.40  3.16
Total Project Cost             2,751.   5,504   8,255~- 12.81  25.59  38.40           67  22.00   5.00 11.40
(Total Project Cost
Excluding Taxes)             (1,326) (5,5C4) (6,830)   (6.18)(25.59)(31.77)   80  22.00-  5.00  4.77



- 17 -
4.11      The estimates were obtained as follows:
(i) Construction: Cost estimates for RNI are based on updlated bid prices
received for this road in July 1974 and on the modified design. The cost for
the Tsiroanomandidy-llaintirano road has been estimated by DTN and the mission
on the basis of preliminary design and a survey of costs per-km for similar
roads and bridges.
(ii) Supervision: Costs are estimated at 5% of construction cost for
RN1 and 9% for the Tsiroanomandidy-MTaintirano road, the latter percentage
reflecting consultants' increased workload for field engineering and team
management during supervision.
(iii) Road Maintenance: Lump sums are included, based on experience with
similar projects in Kenya and Tanzania.
(iv) Contingencies: A 10% physical contingency is provided for con-
struction and supervision to allow for quantity variations and extensions.
Price contingencies are calculated for each component, taking into account
the period from April 1976 to completion and price escalation rates of 13%
for 1976, 12% p.a. for 1977 to 1979, and 10% for 1980, for civil works, and
9% for 1976 and 8% annually for 1977 and 1978, for equipment.
(v)  Foreign Cost Component:  Under the Third Highway Project, this was
estimated at 66% for the construction of RN1, now reduced to 62%, reflecting
tax and local labor cost increases higher than foreign cost increases. The
foreign exchange cost for the earthworks of the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano
road construction is estimated at 53% of total cost, reflecting the use of
force account. These estimates were made by DTN and the Association, with
BADEA participation in the case of Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road. Equipment,
spare parts, imported materials, fuel, expatriate personnel, management over-
head and profit are the principal foreign exchange items. The foreign com-
ponent for supervision, has been estimated by the Association at 80% and for
training and equipment procurement at 90% of the total cost.
n). Financing
4.12      Total project costs are US$31.8 million net of taxes.  The US$5.0
million BADEA loan, which will finance 16% of total project cost, net of taxes,
is earmarked specifically for the foreign cost of the Tsiroanamandidy-
Raintirano earthworks, or 53% of these works' total cost, including taxes.
The US$22.0 million IDA credit will finance 69% of total project cost, net
of taxes, covering some local costs in addition to 100% of the foreign
exchange costs. The remaining 15% (US$4.8 million) of total project costs,
or US$11.4 million, including taxes, will be met by the Government, which,
(luring negotiations, agreed to make funds available as and when required.



- 18 -
E. Implementation
4.13      DTN in the MTP, assisted by consultants, will be responsible for
road construction; this organization has the necessary competence, as shown
by its performance under previous projects.
4.14      Reconstruction of RN1, its bridges, and the bridges of the
Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road 'will be executed under three separate unit
price contracts awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines.
4.15      All bidders will be required to prequalify.  Since Madagascar has
a GNP per capita of less than US$200, the credit agreement contains provisions
for 7.5% preference in bid evaluation for domestic contractors, including
SINTP in the event that it is a bidder (see para. 3.10). Procurement arrange-
ments for contract construction were agreed during negotiations.
4.16      Earthworks on the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road are, in fact,
an intensive maintenance operation to upgrade the existing track to an all-
weather road, rather than a full construction operation. The scope of the
works and their dispersion over :370 km are likely to result in high costs
if executed by contractors. A force account unit of the MTP has recently
satisfactorily upgraded a feeder road near Tsiroanomandidy at low cost.
Therefore, execution of the eartliworks on the project road by force account
appears the most economic alternative, which provides, in addition, an ex-
cellent opportunity to train Malagasy staff at all levels on the job.  Con-
sultants will be employed to assist the MTP with the engineering. management
and supervision of the force account works and to coordinate the earthworks
with the bridge construction by contractors. Administrative arrangements for
the force account works and conditions of consultant employment were agreed
during negotiations.
4.17      Also assisted by consultants, the SCP and the DIM in the MTP will be
responsible for implementing the training program and the maintenance program,
respectively. Terms of reference and the study results will be disculssed
with the Association, and associated procurement will be in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines.
4.18      Construction works on RNI are expected to start by October 1976
and be completed in about 2 years. Works on the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano
road are expected to start in the second quarter of 1977 and finish 3-1/2
years later. Studies are to begin by January 1977 and, following their
results and analyses, training, equipment procurement and DII reorganization
are to start within a year. The axle-load weighing campaign with portable
scales would be carried out during 1977, and installation of weighbridges at
selected sites would proceed in 1979. The project is expected to be
completed by mid-1980. The implementation schedule (Chart 3) as well as the
progress reporting system for works (Annex 6) were agreed with the Government
and recorded in a side letter during negotiations.



- 19 -
F. Disbursements
4.19      Financing sources for specific project components are shown in the
cost table in para. 4.10. The IDA credit will finance 70% of contract con-
struction work costs, including taxes, and the foreign exchange cost of the
remaining elements (except force account works), estimated at 80% of engineer-
ing consultant fees and 90% of road maintenance component costs. All disburse-
ments will be fully documented. A disbursement schedule is given in Table 8.
4.20      BADEA's loan will cover 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the
force account works. About US$4 million will finance the initial purchase of
required equipment and spare parts, according to the side letter including
an equipment list (Table 9) agreed during negotiations and US$1 million will
cover the foreign cost of operating expenditures throughout the construction
period. All these disbursements will also be fully documented. The Government
will provide the balance of required funds.
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The project roads are located in the mid-west and west and will
provide a direct connection from Tananarive to the west coast, supporting agri-
cultural development. The main project benefits are the savings that will be
produced for normal traffic on the main road and access to an area with agri-
cultural potential where an IDA Livestock Project is underway. Transport
savings benefits are expected to be passed on to the small-scale farmers,
since the highly competitive structure of the transport industry will exert
pressure to reduce tariffs. Further, the reduced transport costs and
increased services expected from small operators may render production
profitable in now marginal areas. Unit vehicle operating costs are shown in
Table 10. The structure of the marketing and land tenure systems is such that
it should not constrain the development process (Annex 1).
B. Arivonimamo-Analavory Road
5.02      This section of RN1 is paved but in poor condition and incapable of
adequately serving the increasing traffic. About 70,000 persons live in the
area of influence of the project road. Density gradually increases towards
the east, and small rural villages are seen continuously along the road.
About 670 vpd are expected in 1979, the year it opens. The population derives
its livelihood from agriculture and related services. Average annual income
per capita is less than US$120. Annex 2, Section A, contains additional
details about area of influence, traffic and benefit estimates.



- 20 -
5.03      Reconstruction of the Arivonimamo-Analavory section of RN1, as
envisaged in the Third Highway Project, would have been on a new alignment
over half of its length, reducing the distance by 20 km. Appraisal evaluation
gave a 16% economic return, but when the low hid received was 70% above esti-
mates, construction was no longer justified to proposed standards. Alter-
native technical upgrading possibilities for each of the three sections into
which the road was divided were then evaluated and the best are included in
this project.
5.04      The rate of return for the whole road to revised standards is
estimated at 13% (13% for the new alignment from Arivonimamo to PK 65.5, 16%
for resurfacing the middle section and 12% for reconstructing the last section
to Analavory). If the foreign exchange component is shadow priced, the rates
decrease about one point. Operating savings plus reduced maintenance costs
justify the works. No benefits have been attributed to bridge reconstruction
even though it is essential for traffic continuity; if its cost is excluded,
the average rate becomes 15% (or 14%, 22%, and 14%, respectively). A
sensitivity test on the first section in which the old alignment is neither
used nor maintained results in a 14% return (Table 11).
C. Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road
5.05      From Tsiroanomandidy to Maintirano, development is hampered by lack
of communications. This project will finance the first all-weather road in
an area of about 100,000 km2. As in the case of RNI, about 70,000 persons
live in this road's area of influence and derive their livelihood from agri-
culture and related services. Sonme major towns have emerged, mainlv as
market centers (for instance, Tsiroanomandidy, with about 18,000 inhabitants).
Population density is lowest in the middle section, partly reflecting the
lack of transportation which isolates that area. Per capita income is about
US$80 on average.
5.06      Crop extraction or passenger transport is almost impossible in the
area that the proposed Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road will serve. Its
opening will allow achievement of the potential developmental benefits of
the IDA Livestock Project, will produce savings for the traffic that now
uses the existing track and for traffic that will be diverted from other modes,
and could produce other social and economic benefits which are not quantified
in this analysis, such as those generated by crop development and new settle-
ment programs. Estimated opening year (1980) traffic is 36 vpd from
Tsiroanomandidy to Ambaravanala, 14 vpd in the middle section and 42 vpd from
Morafenobe to Maintirano. Cattle is not expected to be moved by truck, since
the cattle-transport price structure does not justify it. For further details,
see Annex 2, Section B.
5.07      The best estimates result: in a 12% economic return for the whole
road; since their benefits are interdependent, sections have not been eva-
luated separately. Introduction of shadow exchange rate does not modify the



- 21 -
results; if construction costs were 15% higher, the economic return changes to
10% (Table 12).
5.08      In addition to supervising works, the consultant management team
will train Malagasy staff on the job.  The value this training may have,
of eventually enabling Malagasy to undertake works of similar magnitude and
quality without assistance, has not been quantified, and the training component
is, therefore, not included in thie above-mentioned rates of return.
D. Road Maintenance Elements
5.09      No rate of return calculation has been attempted for the elements
intended to improve maintenance operations. however, thley will undoubtedly
result in improved work organization, increased efficiency in operating and
maintaining equipment, better road maintenance procedures, and better capabi-
lity for enforcing axle-load regulations. Overall, the maintenance elements
under the project are expected to result in reduced vehicle operating costs
and increased efficiency of the road transport industry; these benefits will
accrue to thie economy as a whole and will be passed on to different segments
of the population in varying degrees. Reduced vehicle operating costs will
directly benefit the owners of private cars and commercial vehicles; since
transport prices are determined in a competitive framework, part of this
benefit should be passed on to producers and consumers. There will also be
Government savings in future road rehabilitation costs.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on:
(a)  an annual review by the Association and the Government
concerning the appropriateness of proposed budget
allocations for road maintenance (para 3.14);
(b) terms of reference and employment conditions for
consultants to be provided under the project
(paras. 4.06-.08 and 4.16);
(c) a program and implementation schedule to reorganize
DIM's maintenance equipment renting system and to
improve the organization's spare parts supply system
(para. 4.08);
(d) an implementation schedule for enforcing axle-load
regulations (para. 4.09);
(e) provision by thie Government of funds required to cover
local project costs (para. 4.12); and



- 22 -
(f) procurement arrangements for contract construction
and administrative arrangements for force account
construction (para. 4.16).
6.02      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$22.0 million on the
usual terms to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.
June 3, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAWAFCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Distribution of Benefits Accruing from Road Improvement
A. Introduction
1.        Road improvement is essential for development in rural areas because
transport cost reductions stimulate agricultural production. To have this
effect, however, road improvement benefits must be passed on to primary pro-
ducers by transporters and other intermediaries. To predict whether this
will happen, the road transport industry, marketing system, and land tenure
system must be examined.
B. Road Transport Industry
2.        Access to the Malagasy transport industry is relatively open.
Vehicle dealers offer easy credit to virtually anyone with a driving license
who can raise the relatively small down payment from his own savings or from
friends and relatives who then become his associates.
3.        Public transportation registries exist in MTP divisions 1/ but are
incomplete and out-of-date. The most reliable source is the Ministry of
Finance, Tax Office, which estimates that there are about 5,000 public trans-
porters.
Structure of the Transport Industry
4.        Transporters fall into four categories:  (i) transport companies;
(ii) individual transporters; (iii) transport cooperatives; and (iv) merchant
transporters.
(i) Transport Companies
5.        Transport companies are often family enterprises, some of them
European. Company managers are normally experienced, know the market well and
ensure good quality service. Large industrial companies deal with these enter-
prises, rather than with individual transporters, and often have annual con-
tracts with them.
1/   Arrondissements des Ponts et Chaussees.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        Transport companies confine their activity mainly to freight and
usually hesitate or refuse to send their trucks on bad roads, such as the
Ambanja-Antsohihy. Few companies venture into passenger transport; if they do,
they use large buses on main roads such as Tananarive-Majunga. Only one com-
pany is known to use "taxi-be" 1/ and "car-brousse" 2/ in Finanarantsoa.
(ii) Individual Transporters
7.        Individual transporters are usually Malagasy.  The vehicle operator
may be the owner, an operator on his account, or a salaried driver employed
by a wealthy merchant or government employee. Owners and operators have
little managerial knowledge and often consider neither vehicle depreciation
nor maintenance costs. The vehicle is simply used, generally overloaded and
the income spent as it comes. When major repairs or change of tires are
necessary, they borrow money, accept a new associate who pays the expenses,
or go bankrupt. Their attitudes are also reflected in prices charged. On
good roads, such as the Tananarive-Majunga, where competition is stiff, they
accept prices near operational cost or even lower, and on bad roads, such
as the Ambanja-Antsohihy, where competition is low or nonexistent, tariffs
may be double operating costs.
8.        Individual transporters predominate in the passenger business, and
Cihere are also many in the trucking industry.
(iii) Transport Cooperatives
9.        All Malagasy cooperatives, normally considered nonlucrative organ-
izations, are grouped under the National Federation of Malagasy Cooperatives
(Federation Nationale des Cooperatives Malagaches) and supervised by the
State Secretariat for Cooperatives.
10.       Transport cooperatives' mnain income sources are members' contribu-
tions and discounts received when purchasing supplies. Surplus income after
expenses is distributed to members, but some transport cooperatives use the
surplus to acquire and operate transport vehicles for members' benefit. This
third income source is, of course, subject to taxes like that of any other
transport company.
11.       Cooperatives offer supply facilities and sometimes garage services
to their members and impose standards on vehicle condition. They fix tariffs,
schedules, and organize the rotation of members' vehicles on roads in their
area of influence.
12.       Cooperatives are more act:ive in passenger transport than in trucking.
1/   Peugeot or Renault cars.
2/   Bus of 12 to 23 seats.



ANNEX I
Page 3
(iv) Merchant Transporters
13.       Some large commercial companies have truck fleets to transport their
own merchandise. Smaller merchants who have pick-ups or trucks for their own
use also offer transport services, which are concentrated on good roads and
generally refused on poor ones.
14.       These merchants usually keep their vehicles in good condition but
do not keep separate accounts for commercial and transport activities, which
makes it difficult to assess the importance and cost of each. They tend
to consider the transport activity a by-product and accept very low rates,
sometimes below operating cost.
Transport Tariffs
(i) Fares
15.       Only one transport company still offers regular interurban bus
service. It operates between Tananarive and Majunga at FMG 2650 for first
class passengers (FMG 4.61/passenger-km) and 1850 for second class (IMG 3.22/
passenger-km). All other interurban passenger traffic is carried by individual
transporters and cooperatives.
16.       Provincial traffic rates are fixed by provincial authorities who
take road condition into consideration. Passenger-km fares vary between
FMG 2 and 3 on paved roads, 3 and 5 on regular earth roads, and between 5 and
7 on poor earth roads.
17.       Interprovincial tariffs are determined by supply and demand and
thus vary considerably according to road condition, season, region and, on
roads parallel to the railway, according to passenger train schedules. The
following table shows April 1975 average fares and operating costs per passen-
ger-km; the latter are based on officially authorized occupancy, but over-
loading is a current practice and it is common to see a "Renault 4" designed
for three passengers carrying 5 or even 6; the same is true for other car
makes and for "car-brousses", thus, profits from operation are larger than
the table suggests.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Taxi-Be 1/                   Car-Brousse 2/
Fare   Operating Cost 3/  Fare   Operating Cost 3/
(FMG/passenger-km)
Paved Roads:  Good   2.70 to 5.50  4.62 to  5.82   2.20 to 3  2.26 to 2.38
Poor      5 to 7      5.63 to  7.10        3 to 4  2.38 to 2.72
Earth Roads:  Good       5 to 9      6.30 to  7.63        4 to 6  3.00 to 3.70
Poor     10 or more  8.32 to 10.48         5 to 7  3.70 to 4.33
1/   Peugeot 404 and Renault 4 are the most common.  The first has a capacity
of 6 passengers and the second 3.
2/   Car-brousse are busses with 12 to 23 seats; average, 17.
3/   Vehicle operating costs are mission estimates based on SETEC's "Etude
des Tariffs des Transports Roujtiers," 1974; and current April 1975
prices.
(ii) Freight
18.       There is an official nat:Lonal tariff only for cement, which is FMG
15/ton-km. It is generally respecl:ed, as the sole cement factory has medium
term contracts with transport companies based on it. All other inter-provin-
cial transport tariffs are determined by supply and demand and consequently,
like passenger tariffs, vary consicLerably 1/. Transport companies charge
higher rates than individual transporters, who in turn charge more than
merchant transporters.
19.       Each province fixes tariffs for transport within its limits.  Rates
vary from as little as FMG 15/ton-km on stretches of the Tananarive-Majunga
paved road to as high as FMG 62.5/ton-km on the Mahasolo-Sakay earth road.
Tariffs are more or less respected on good roads.  On earth roads, they are
observed during the dry season but bypassed during the rains; on the Mahasolo-
Sakay road, for example, the rainy :season tariff charged is double the official
rate.
20.       The table below illustrates the wide range of tariffs charged in
relation to road condition. The freights reported were obtained from transport
companies and individual transporters. No meaningful average could be obtained
for merchant transporters but in 1972 a study reported that they accepted as
little as FMG 4/ton-km.  The operating costs/ton-km reported are for the most
commonly used vehicles, trucks between 4 and 10 tons. The cost is higher for
small 1 or 2 ton trucks and lower for trucks over 10 tons.
1/   However, the Ministry of Transport and Supplies intends to fix tariffs
for haulage on all major roads.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Tariffs                  Operating Cost
(FMG/ton-km)
Paved Roads:  Good      10.43 to  22.73               7.80 to 12.20
Poor     18.26 to  37.31               9.60 to 14.02
Earth Roads:  Good      23.58 to  43.48              10.80 to 19.35
Poor     62.50 to 125.00              13.20 to 22.86
1/   Vehicle operating costs are mission estimates based on SETEC's "Etude de
Factibilite Routiere," 1973; on the Ministry of Transport's "Etude des
Tariffs des Transports Routiers," 1974; and current April 1975 prices.
Operating cost is calculated for 4- and 10-ton trucks during dry season;
it can almost double on earth roads during the rainy season.
C. Marketing System for Agricultural Products
21.       In 1973, Government created the National Agency for Agricultural
Products (SINPA) for the marketing of agricultural products. It has a monopoly
over rice, the country's main staple, and competes with the private sector for
other products, such as corn and peanuts.
22.       Members of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (UCA), are particu-
larly active in marketing coffee in competition with traders. The cooperatives
use their benefits to extend and improve services to affiliates.
23.       However, most agricultural products are marketed by individuals.
Farmers deposit their crops at Fokonolona buying centers 1/ where they are
sold to SINPA or UCA. Alternatively, farmers may sell them at the village
market to representatives of large exporters or to small dealers.
24.       For rice, Government fixes farm-gate and countrywide wholesale
prices. In 1974, the paddy price was fixed at FMG 30/kg to farmers plus
FMG 2/kg to the Fokonolonas for administrative expenses, and the wholesale
price of white rice at the sale centers 2/ was fixed at FMG 65/kg. However,
because production falls short of local demand, it was estimated that farmers
sold one-sixth of the rice crop on the black market for as much as FMG 50/kg,
and wholesale white rice reached FMG 150/kg in some remote areas.
25.       For other major crops, including coffee, corn, cotton, and cocoa,
Government fixes a price or a minimum guaranteed price. Official prices
differ from region to region, approximately reflecting transport cost to
major ports or markets. They are respected by SINPA and UCA, but private
1/   Centres d'achat.
2/   Centres d'eclatements.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
dealers may pay more or less according to the transport cost from village to
port of export and the area's competitiveness. For example, in 1974 Govern-
ment fixed the coffee price in Ambanja at FMG 162/kg, but effective prices
paid to producers by private merchants varied from FMG 158 to 163/kg, depend-
ing on transport cost between the Fokonolona where coffee is bought and the
Ambanja port where it is shipped to Nossi-Be for export.
26.       For all other products, prices vary from one Fokonolona to another
in relaton to transport costs and competition; both factors are, of course,
affected by road conditions. In 1972, the most recent date for which statis-
tics on average prices paid to producers in different provinces are available,
manioc prices varied from FMG 8/kg in Tulear to 20 in Finanarantsoa. Corn
varied from FMG 8/kg in Antsohihy to 30 in Diego-Suarez; green beans varied
from FMG 43/kg in Tulear to 80 in Tamatave. 1974 prices were different but
the mission was told that they varied as much as in 1972.
27.       For the time being, road improvement would have little, if any
effect on cattle prices, since most cattle are walked to market because
transport cost by truck is higher than that of the animals' weight loss.
At present, for example, there are only two trucks transporting cattle from
Tsiroanomandidy to Tananarive. However, cattle owners should also benefit
from transport cost reductions, although perhaps less than other producers.
D. Land Tenure
28.       The Malagasy rural land tenure system is complex.  The fundamental
legal assumption is that all land belongs to the Government unless an individ-
ual holds formal title and the land is fully exploited. The 1960 laws govern-
ing property rights spell out rights and procedures for granting land titles.
There are three different systems of property rights: (i) "modern" private
land ownership, which was introduced in 1881 and follows French legal and admin-
istrative procedures. Official title is granted by registration or cadastral
survey, provided the applicant can demonstrate a 10-year uninterrupted and
undisputed possession of the property; (ii) customary land use rights, granted
under traditional common law by the rural community, the Fokonolona, which is
regarded as the rightful owner; and (iii) state land ownership. Two main
types of land holdings have developed: the few large plantations usually
owned by private or public companies and the large majority of family farms,
which are smaller than one hectare in overpopulated areas, 3 to 4 in less
populated areas and 10 to 12 ha per family in the newly-developed mid-west.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
E. Concluding Remarks
29.       At present, transport industry competition is stiff on good roads,
limited on poor ones and slight or nonexistent on the poorest. Accordingly,
tariffs are near or lower than operating costs on good paved roads; they
increase on fair and poor roads and may be more than double operating costs
on poor earth roads in rainy season. Consequently, road improvement in
Madagascar effects tariff reductions equal or superior to effective operating
cost savings and aids development of new services.
30.       It is equally true that,at present, competition in marketing agri-
cultural products is quite healthy and, as a result, transport cost reductions
should increase farm-gate prices, provided that Government-fixed prices are
revised accordingly.
31.       Land tenure in Madagascar should not constitute a constraint on
agricultural production or marketing, nor in any way prevent road improvement
benefits from reaching producers.
32.       However, it should be noted that:  (i) the newly created Ministry
of Transport and Supplies is thinking of regulating and fixing transport
tariffs for passengers and freight and of creating a transport company which
might have a monopoly over the transport of some products; (ii) SINPA is to
have a monopoly over the marketing of all agricultural products as a first
step towards transferring this responsibility to the Fokonolona or to the
Fiarisam-pokonolona, an administrative unit which will include a group of
Fokonolonas; no schedule has been set for this change and the details of the
system are not yet known. Whether these things will be done in the near
future, and if so, how, might drastically change transport and marketing
conditions.
33.       Consequently, the favorable conclusions above should be regarded
as temporary pending clarification of Government's new policies and reforms.
June 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
DEMOCRWTIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Background for Evaluation of the Proposed Road Construction
A. Arivonimamo - Analavory (RNI)
Area of Influence
1.        RN1, the main route westward from the capital in Tananarive province,
is paved as far as Tsiroanomandidy 1/, an important marketing center in the
fertile mid-western region. The section under consideration traverses the
densely populated and cultivated central plateau. Although it is a rural
area, population concentrations can be seen all along the road, decreasing
in number and size from east to w,est. The three major towns are Arivonimamo
(about 9,500 inhabitants), Mia5inarivo (5,100) and Analavory (1,350). Average
density is about 60 persons/km in the Arivonimamo subprefecture and about 9
in the Miarinarivo subprefecture. Approximately 65,000 inhabitants are in the
direct area of influence and an additional 100,000 persons are indirectly
served by the road. From 1963 to 1972, population growth averaged 3.2% p.a.
in the Arivonimamo subprefecture and 3.9% in Miarinarivo but is-higher in
towns because of migration. These trends are expected to continue. About
85% of the areas' population depends on small scale agricultural activities.
Paddy, manioc, potatoes, maize and other crops are produced, while cattle
raising and secondary and tertiary activities are few.
Traffic
2.        Traffic volume is almost the same throughout the road according to
three counting stations. Average growth rate has been about 10% p.a. from
1966 to 1971, the date of the last complete count. In the section westwards
to Tsiroanomandidy, the rate has been as high as 19% p.a. during the same
period. However, since 1972, traffic growth has decelerated and will probably
grow at not more than 7% p.a. until 1987 and decrease to 5% thereafter. Aver-
age traffic on the Pnalavory to Arivonimamo road is projected as follows:
1,   The Second Malagasy Highway Project (Credit 134/Loan 570-MAG) helped
finance the paving of the 55 km section from Fanjakamandroso to
Tsiroanomandidy, which was undertaken from 1970 to 1972.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
vpd
Vehicle                   1971    1978    1997
(opening
year)
Cars                       159      256      765
Light vehicles              46       74      221
Buses                      138      221      662
Trucks, 2-6 ton-load        46       74      221
Trucks, 6-10 ton-load        18      29       86
Trucks, over 10 tons         10      16       48
Total                 417      670  2,003
3.        The 14 km of new alignment between Arivonimamo and PK63.5 are
expected to attract not more than 85% of the traffic from the existing road
which passes through a settled area where part of the traffic origin-destina-
tion is.
4.        Neither diverted nor generated traffic is considered, althouRh some
may be generated by the reduction in overall travel time from shortening the
road and reducing congestion and by trucking industry competitiveness, which
may effect teriff reductions and pass operating savings to local dealers or
Producers and consumers. Neither has any additional long distance traffic on
this RN1 section, due to the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road upgrading, been
included.
Benefits
5.        Estimated benefits are indicated in Table 10.  The main project
benefits are normal traffic operating savings from shortening the distance and
eliminating the worst curves (an overall 5 km reduction, 3.2 km in Section A
and 1.7 km in C), decreasing congestion and improving the surface. UInit oper-
ating costs are shown in Table 9.
6.        Maintenance costs will also be reduced, but maintenance will have
to continue on the existing alignment of Section A since some traffic will
use it after the new alignment is open.
B. Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road
Area of Influence
7.        The Tsiroanomandidy-Morafenobe-Maintirano axis traverses the mid-
west and west of 2the country, where no all-weather road exists in an area of
about 100,000 km (about one sixth of the country's surface). The topography



ANNEX 2
Page 3
is difficult and erosion widespread. Throughout the central plateau there
are smaller plateaux of not more than 100 ha separated by small valleys,
rivers or streams. The altitude decreases continously westwards, especially
from the Bemarivo river where the plateau abruptly changes to flat rolling
terrain which descends smoothly to sea level at Maintirano. The rainy
season from about November to April, during which an average of 1.5 meters
of rain falls, increases the difficulty of communications.
8.        Partly due to the lack of roads, the population is scattered, with
density lowest in the middle area,about 2 persons/km2, increasing to
about 4 in the Maintirano subprefecture and to 8 in the Tsiroanomandidy sub-
prefecture. Population in the direct area of influence amounts to about
70,000 inhabitants, if a strip of about 20 km on each side of the road is
considered. The population is mainly rural even though throughout the area
there is emigration to towns. Only three of them exceed 1,000 inhabitants;
Tsiroanomandidy, which has had an explosive 14% p.a. growth since 1963, now
has about 18,000; Maintirano has increased at about 9% p.a. to 9,630 inhabi-
tants; and Morafenobe has increased about 7% p.a. to 1,500 persons. Annual
growth rates of the corresponding three subprefectures are much lower: 6%,
3.5% and 1.5% 1/. About 90% of this population depends on agricultural
activities and has a per capita income as low as US$70. The area produces
mainly paddy, groundnuts, maize and manioc for subsistence and some surplus.
There are an estimated 300,000 cattle in the road area and Tsiroanomandidy
town is the major market which handles virtually all cattle (about 75,000
animals are sold here annually) coming from the west towards Tananarive city.
9.        A 1969 Bank loan for a Beef Cattle Development Project provided for
the development of four breeding and fattening ranches and construction of
access roads near Tsiroanomandidy. Tsiroanomandidy subprefecture and the
west have again been identified by the Bank as high priority for livestock
development, with good potential for mixed farming, as increased crops are
the best opportunity to improve farmers' incomes in the short term. Accor-
dingly, in 1974 the Bank appraised a Village Livestock and Rural Development
Project to assist village livestock and rural development over four years in
Majunga Province and Tsiroanomandidy subprefecture 2/. Because difficulty of
access hampers extension efforts, limits social and economic services, and
makes marketing crops difficult outside producing villages, the project in-
cludes a local feeder road component where the basic network is poorest 3/.
1/   From 1963 to 1972.
2/   Report No. 403a-MAG; Credit 506-MAG.
3/   The livestock project foresees annually the upgrading of 40 km and
maintenance of 280 km of feeder roads, at about US$5,000 and 300 per
km respectively. They should, be no more than a graded 4 m wide track,
following the ground profile with good drainage ditches and small
bridges, concrete aprons and culverts as required. The MTP is responsible
for these works, half of which will be in the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano
area.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
However, a main axis must exist as an outlet for the feeder roads and Govern-
ment gave assurance, during negotiations, "...that the Ministry of Public
Works would repair and maintain the Maintirano-Morafenobe-Tsiroanomandidy road
before any access roads are constructed or improved in the area under the
project." 1/
10.       Furthermore, Government's Midwest Development Operation (ODEMO),
already active in the region, is planning to settle 500 five-member families
starting in 1976 in the Kiranomena area which already exports 25,000 cattle
annually to Tananarive and whose high crop potential is hampered by lack of
communications.
Traffic
11.       Traffic estimates include:
a)   normal road traffic, based on the Ministry's and the mission's counts;
b)   diverted air traffic, assuming that 50% of air passengers shift to sur-
face transportation, even though travel time is about four times longer.
Taxi-be tariffs will be about 75% less than air fares;
c)   diverted coastal shipping traffic; only the paddy surplus has been
taken into account;
d)   livestock project development traffic, assuming that the resulting
increase in income is proportionally reflected in normal road traffic.
No cattle trucking is expected since cost of animal weight loss is less
than trucking cost; and
e)   generated passenger traffic, assuming that total proportion of income
spent on transportation remains unchanged; that is, passenger fare
savings will be used in additional trips. No quantification of
generated crop surplus transport has been attempted.
1l.       We have also assumed that only taxi-bes will carry diverted and
generated passenger traffic and that 7 ton-load or smaller trucks will be
used for freight. If buses and larger truieks are used, vehicle traffic will
be less, but the economic savings estimate may increase. Traffic growth
rate is assumed to be 6% p.a.
13.       Based on considerations outlined above, vpd for 1980, the year the
whole road opens, and for 2000 are:
1/   Para. 4.08, Report No. 403a-MAG.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
1980                         2000
Light                      Light
Cars   Trucks   Total    Cars   Trucks    Total
-----------------------vpd-----------------------
Tsiroanomandidy-Ambaravanala
Normal I/              5       13       18        16      41         57
Generated             18        -       18       58        -         58
36                          115
Ambaravanala-Morafenobe
Normal                  1      1n       11         3      32         35
Generated               3       -        3        10       -         10
14                           45
Morafenohe-Maintirano
Normal                  9      13       22       29       42         71
Generated             20)       -       20       64        -         64
Ts2                         135
=                     _=
1!   Including a) to d) above.
Benefits
14.       Estimated benefits are shown in Table 11.  The main road construc-
tion benefits are those of the livestock project, which cannot be realized
without an all-weather road. Based on Government assurance, the livestock
project appraisal assumed that the Tsiroanomandidy Maintirano road would be
passable all year and therefore did not include any investment or maintenance
cost for it. As evaluated, the rate of retturn was 69%, through development
of an intensive veterinary service; provision of technical services and
training; improvement of communal pasture through introductin of stylo; three
pilot development programs in the Middle West Zone; construction of minor
feeder roads; and provision of water, education and health facilities over
a four year period.  It was estimated that annual carcass meat production
would increase by 10,600 tons, in the Majunga province and Tsiroanomandidy
subprefecture, about one fourth of which was expected to materialize in the
project road's area of influence.
15.       Other benefits considered are normal traffic operating savings,
savings from diverting some air amd coastal shipping traffic to the road,
and generated passenger traffic. When markets become accessible and farmers
are encouraged by favorahle prices, they will probably produce crop surpluses,
but this benefit has not been inc:Luded in the basic evaluation due to quan-
tificati.rn and timing uncertainties. Government settlement schemes in the



ANNEX 2
Page 6
mid-west will also benefit from, and may even be stimulated by all-weather
road availability, but they have not been considered in the evaluation either.
16.       Benefits will accrue mainly to low income rural farmers.  Also,
Air Madagascar may be able to decrease by 50% the number of flights on this
route, which is subsidized, and so reduce its losses.
June 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works (MTP)
Draft Terms of Reference for
Engineering, Management and Supervision
of Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road Construction
A. Introduction
1.        The Government of the Democratic Republic of Madagascar intends
to improve the present link between Tsiroanomandidy and Maintirano, about
390 km, to all-weather gravel standards. The existing track is almost
impassable even by four-wheel drive vehicles in dry season.  The new road
will connect Tsiroanomandidy, Anibaravanala, Beravina, Bemahatazana and
Maintirano and provide access tc Morafenobe from Bemahatazana. The road
will carry low traffic volumes (between 15 and 40 vpd in opening year) and
is only economically viable if construction costs remain within US$15,000
per km for flat terrain and US$25,000 per km for more difficult terrain,
excluding bridges.
2.        Based on the limited scope of the earthworks involved, their
scattered location along the len,gth of the road and previous departmental
experience in earthmoving, the Government has decided to carry out these
works by force account. The MTP's earthmoving unit, established within
the Infrastructure and Maintenance Department (DIM) would be employed for
this purpose. Bridge construction will be executed by contractor.
3.        The Arab Bank for the Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)
has proposed to assist the Goverrment, with a US$5 million loan, in
financing equipment requirements and part of the operational cost. The
International Development Association (IDA) will assist in financing the
proposed consultant services.
B. Objectives
4.        The obje.tives of the consultant services are:
i)   to assist Government in procuring equipment and mobilizing
the force account unit;
ii)   to set out the road alignment and to prepare all required
drawings ahead of works as they proceed;
iii)   to direct and supervise the activities of the force account
unit and assume financial control of expenditures;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
iv)   to train on the job Malagasy personnel in the planning
of road betterment and maintenance and in the operation
and proper maintenance of mechanical equipment;
v)   to coordinate the earthworks with the bridge construction
executed by contractor.
C. Scope of Services
General
5.        The consultants shall cooperate fully with the MTP and other
public authorities involved. The MTP will employ the necessary personnel,
assign counterparts and provide the data, studies, services and facilities
outlined in Section E of these terms of reference. The consultants shall
report directly to the Secretary General of MTP who administers, coordinates
and supervises all activities under the project and provides liaison with
other Government agencies. The consultants, responsible for the orderly
progress of the works, will have the right to transfer permanent staff and
labor provided by the MTP between the working sites or away from the force
account unit if they are considered unsatisfactory for any reason. The
consultants will, however, be expected to act in these matters with dis-
cretion, and with primary regard for attaining the Government's objective
of completing the works satisfactorily.
Preliminary Stage
6.        Based on the preliminary studies carried out by the MTP, the
existing 1:8000 aerial photography, the meteorological conditions and a
thorough site inspection, the consultants will:
i)   prepare a detailed program for engineering and construction
works showing the work to be completed by mid-1980;
ii)   determine the approximate requirements of personnel and
equipment needed to implement the above program;
iii)   prepare a schedule of tentative unit prices for all work
items; and
iv)   determine the amount of a revolving fund to be financed by
Governmental contributions and the proceeds of the BADEA
loan, based on the unit prices and the quantity of works
to be executed.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        For the mobilization of the force account unit, the consultants will:
v)   review the number and qualifications of the staff, the mechanics,
the equipment operators and the laborers of the existing earth-
moving unit;
vi)   make recommendations to MTP regarding employment of
additional personnel judged necessary;
vii)   review the existing equipment of the earthmoving unit; and
viii)   make recommendations to MTP for any necessary reconditioning
or replacement of the equipment.
8.        To assist MTP in the procurement of equipment to carry out
the force account works the consultants will:
ix)   review the tender documents prepared by the MTP and
revise if necessary;
x)   make recommendations regarding the type and quantity of
any additional equipment and spares judged necessary; and
xi)   prepare a tender evaluation report on tenders received and
make recommendations to MTP for award.
Construction Stage
9.        Parallel with but aheacl of actual construction Droeress) the
consultants will:
i)   define and stake out the proposed road alignment, connecting
the proposed bridges located previously by the MTP;
ii)   carry out all such engineering design and prepare all such
plans and drawings required for the orderly execution of work;
iii)   consult with the Laboratoire Nationale des Travaux Publics
et du Batiment (LNTPB) concerning pavement design and soil
problems. (The LNTPB is staffed and equipped to carry out
all necessary soils and material investigations and will be
seconded to the consultants by the MTP free of charge.);
iv)   prepare quantity estimates; and
v)   determine the location End dimensions of all drainage structures,
with the exception of bridges  15 m, and prepare standard
drawings to suitable scales.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       For the actual construction, the consultants will:
vi)   direct and supervise the activities of the earthmoving
unit, including equipment maintenance;
vii)   engage any additional labor locally as may be required to
attain the targets and scliedules indicated in para. 6;
viii)   make all necessary arrangements for temporary housing,
canteen facilities, etc., in accordance with MTP's
standards and practices;
ix)   measure works executed and keep proper records of all site
activities with a view to preparation of the reports
required under Section D;
x)   revise, if necessary, the schedule of unit-prices prepared
in the preliminary stage;
xi)   control all expenditure on materials, fuel, spares, repairs
and wages for junior staff and labor. For this, the revolving
fund mentioned in para. 6 will be under the consultants'
control;
xii)   cooperate with the LNTPB, which is responsible for soil tests
and quality control, and the Direction des Travaux Neufs
(DTN), which will assume overall control;
xiii)   train Malagasy counterparts to provide them with the knowledge
and the managerial skills which would improve their performance
in carrying out road maintenance, road betterment, and eq;uip-
ment maintenance; and
xiv)   coordinate the progress of the earthworks with the schedlule
for bridge construction executed by contractor.
D.  Time Schedule for Consulting Services and Reports
11.       The consultants shall commence work on the assignment witl1iil 30
calendar days after the date of Notice to Proceed. The preliminary stage
should cover about 6 months and the construction stage about a further
36 months.
12.       The consultants shall submit the following reports in French
within the time limits specified:



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Preliminary Stage
i)   An inception report (   copies) within 3 months of the starting
date summarizing the consultant's preliminary findings and his
further work program;
ii)   a draft Final Report (__ copies) within 5 months of the starting
date, giving the recommendations, schedules and programs asked
for in paras. 6 and 7;
iii)   a Final Report (   copies) within 1 month after receiving comments
on the Draft Final Report; and
iv)   a Tender Evaluation Report (_ copies) within 1 month after
receiving the tenders for the equipment.
Construction Stage
i)   Monthly reports (_ copies) to include staff on site, equipment
and serviceability, general progress of the works, difficulties
met, valuation of completed measured works and expenditures;
ii)   a final report (   copies) on completion of the proiect
which should include:
a) discussion of the technical, financial and training aspects
of the works and recommendations as to their improvement
for future similar projects;
b) average cost per kin for road with varying terrain;
c) costs by category such as overhead (including camps, etc.),
supervision, equipment purchase (depreciation), materials
and operating costs (labor, fuel, etc.);
d)  costs by operation such as "cut to fill", "overhaul",  etc.;
e)  costing for each ileni of plant to show  capital cost, total
hours of operation,, running cost per hour (excluding operator),
and repair and maintenance.
E. Data, Local Services and Facilities
to he Provideu h). the Government
13.       The Government will provide the consultants with all available
information and studies that may be reasonably required for the services,
including studies prepared by other agencies.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
14.       MTP will provide liaison with such agencies as considered
necessary by consultants.
15.       The Government will assign, full time, an appropriate number of
counterparts to work with the consultants during all phases of the project.
16.       The Government will provide all personnel and equipment required
for the execution of the work and will assist the consultants in hiring
labor locally, if necessary.
17.       The Government will undertake to replenish the revolving fund,
in such a way that under no circumstances will the works be held up by
lack of funds.
18.       The Government will make available the necessary lands on which
the works are to be constructed, together with such other lands as may be
required for obtaining local materials and water and for temporary construc-
tion purposes.
19.       The Government will make available the services of the LNTPB and
the Central Workshop.
20.       The Government will provide any other facilities and staff
required to help the consultants in performing their services in Madagascar
(to be specified by the consultants as part of their Technical Proposal).
June 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works (MTP)
Draft Terms of Reference for
Study of Training Needs and Implementation of Findings
A. Introduction
1.        In the past 10 years, Madagascar has made slow progress in
improving its highway network. Since 1966, the Bank Group has helped
finance construction of 649 km of roads, including 535 km paved. The
Ministry of Public Works (MTP) has been responsible for highway admin-
istration since the Ministry of Works (MAT) was reorganized in 1975.
The New Works Department (DTN) of the MTP is in charge of new construction
and the Infrastructure and Maintenance Department (DIM) is responsible
for main highway maintenance.
2.        Although the MTP functional organization is adequate, it suffers
from staffing problems. It lacks sufficiently trained technicians (road
supervisors, equipment operators and mechlanics), and most graduate
personnel urgently need practical engineering experience and management
training. The MTP Training Center (Centre de Maitrise des Ponts et
Chaussees), established in 1963 to train mainly road supervisors, equip-
ment operators and mechanics, has not operated since 1975 for lack of
instructors and operating funds.
B. Objectives
3.        The objectives of the consultant services are as follows:
(i) to identify the likely manpower requirements of the MTP, in
particular the DIM, over the next 5 years, taking into
consideration foreseeable development of activities during
that time;
(ii) t:o determine the training requirements of the manpower
structure agreed to by the MTP (from (i));
(iii) to recommend a comprehensive training program to meet current
and future needs, for MTP and IBRD approval; and
(iv)  to formulate, implement and evaluate the agreed upon
training program.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
C. Scope of Services
General
4.        The consultants shall cooperate fully with the MTP and any other
public authority involved. The MTP will assign the necessary counterpart
personnel and provide the data, studies, services and facilities outlined
in Section E of these terms of reference. The consultants shall report
directly to the Secretary General of MTP, who administers, coordinates
and supervises all activities under Bank Group-financed highway projects
and provides liaison with other Government agencies. The consultants shall
be solely responsible for the findings, conclusions and recommendations
contained in their report.
Assessment of Training Needs
5.        To determine the manpower training requirements for the MTP, in
particular for the DIM, a team should be located in Madagascar and, inter
alia, should:
(i)  make an inventory of current manpower connected with highway
maintenance operations;
(ii)  identify and evaluate the capability and potential of the
manpower available in order to better assess their training
needs;
(iii)  determine how existing personnel can be made available for
training without interfering with ongoing operations;
(iv)  determine the number, categories and levels of personnel to
be recruited and trained year-by-year over the next 5 years,
(taking into account staff losses through attrition) in order
to meet highway maintenance targets;
(v) identify possible sources of recruitment and review likely
constraints with the MTP;
(vi)  assess the existing facilities of the MTP Training Center
and determine the physical and manpower resources required to
restore the Center to full operation;
(vii)  identify and evaluate the need for regional MTP training
facilities;
(viii)  evaluate the present organization of the school of Public
Works (Ecole des Travaux Publics), now part of the University; and



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(ix) determine the number and categories of expatriate instructors
and teaching aids thai: will be required in the next 5 years or
until local staff can take over.
Recommendations for a Comprehensive Training Program
6.        Upon completion of the assessment outlined in para. 5, the
consultants shall:
(x) submit to the MTP (and the IBRD) a Draft Final Report presenting
the results of the assessment together with detailed recom-
mendations for a comprehensive program to meet the training
needs, including program objectives; fields of training and
number of personnel (by category) to be trained; proposed
methodology; time schedule; estimated cost; and recommendations
on such action as is required to rehabilitate the Training Center
and/or establish regional centers.
Formulation, Implementation and Evaluation of Agreed Program
7.        After reaching agreement with the MTP and the IBRD on the
training needs and a program to mleet these needs, the consultants shall:
(xi) develop detailed training program procedures and courses;
(xii)  implement the courses;
(xiii)  train counterparts and select staff to be further trained abroad
as instructors who would take over and continue all training
operations in MTP after the consultants' departure; and
(xiv)  design an evaluation system which would enable the MTP to
assess the results of training.
D. Time Schedule for Consulting Services and Reports
8.        The consultants shall cemmence work on the assignment within
30 calendar days after the date of Notice to Proceed. The assessment of
manpower training requirements and recommendations for a comprehensive
program to meet these requirements should take not more than 3 months,
including preparation and submission of the Draft Final Report.
9.        The consultants shall submit the following reports in French
within the time limits specified:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(i) a Draft Final Report Report (20 copies) within 3 months of the
starting date;
(ii) a Final Report (20 copies) within 1 month after receiving
comments on the Draft Final Report; and
(iii)  Quarterly Progress Reports during implementation of the program.
The reports mentioned in (i) and (ii) shall contain a concise
first chapter summarizing the body of the report.
E. Data, Local Services and Facilities to Be
Provided bythe Government
10.       The Government will provide the consultants with any available
information that may be reasonably required for the services, including
reports prepared by other agencies.
11.       MTP will provide liaison with such agencies as considered necessary.
12.       The Government will assign, full time, an appropriate number of
counterparts to work with the consultants, for training and liaison. The
consultants will involve the counterparts in all phases of the training
project, including data collection, assessment of training needs, design
of suitable programs and training materials and, finally, in implementation
and evaluation of the courses. The counterparts should, on completion of
their training, including if necessary instruction abroad, be assigned as
Training Officers within the MTP.
13.       The Government will provide the following facilities and staff to
help the consultants in performing their services in Madagascar (to be
specified by the consultants as part of the Technical Proposal).
June 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works (MTP)
Draft Terms of Reference for a Study of DIM Reorganization
and Equipment and Spare Parts Needs
A. Introduction
1.        The Malagasy highway network comprises about 8,600 km of primary
roads,of which 3,800 km are paved; 19,000 km of secondary roads, of which
600 km are paved; and about 4,400 km of tertiary and other roads. Mainte-
nance responsibility for the first 2 categories is presently with the
Ministry of Works' Infrastructure and Maintenance Department (DIM). In
each of Madagascar's 6 provinces, DIM has a division, whose subdivisions
and sections execute the maintenance. In line with the new decentralization
policy, it is intended to give more responsibility to the divisions, which
then would report directly to thbe Ministry's Secretary General and receive
only technical advice from DIM.
2.        In recent years the quality of road maintenance has declined
because of insufficient budget allocations, inadequate equipment availibility and
poorly trained personnel. Budget: allocations for primary and secondary road
maintenance have remained nominally constant since 1969 (about US$12 million)
and are now considerably below requirements. Allocations for equipment renewal
have been particularly insufficient in recent years. Furthermore, equipment
down-time is excessive, in many cases due simply to lack of spare parts.
The higher echelons of the mainte!nance personnel lack managerial skills, the
lower echelons need practical training. As a consequence,paved roads are
deteriorating rapidly and gravel roads, formerly usable year round are now
becoming impassable during several months of the year.
3.        To help rectify this situation, the Government of the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar intends to employ consultants to review the present
organization and budgetary allocations for road maintenance of its primary
and secondary road network and to carry out a study to determine the spare
parts requirements to rehabilitate existing equipment and the number and
specifications of additional road maintenance equipment needed. In a separate
study, training needs will be examined. The International Development
Association (IDA) will participate in financing these services, the imple-
mentation of a training program and the procurement of spare parts and equip-
ment.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
B. Objectives
4.        The objectives of the consultants' services are:
i)   to assist Covernment in improving the road maintenance
organization for primary and secondary roads;
ii)   to determine the level of budget allocations necessary for
adequate road maintenance; and
iii)   to determirle spare part and new equipment needs and to
assist in their procurement.
C. Scope of Consulting Services
General
5.        The consultants shall perform all technical, economic and
financial analyses and related work, herein described, as required to
attain the above objectives. They shall cooperate fully with the MTP
and any other public authority involved. The MTP will assign counter-
parts and provide the data, studies, services and facilities outlined
in Section E of these terms of reference. The consultants shall report
directly to the Secretary General of MTP who administers, coordinates and
supervises all activities under the project and provides liaison with other
Government agencies.
Maintenance Organization
6.        To assist the Government in improving the road maintenanc:e
operations under the MTP, the consultants will:
i)   review the existing organization; its lines of authority;
personnel structure; planning methods; budgetary, cost
control, payment and auditing procedures and its flow of
orders and information;
ii)   examine critically the present system of equipment procure-
ment, its distribution, repair system and the structure of
rental rates;
iii)   make recommendations based on1 the above review for improve-
ment, keeping in mind Government's decentralization policy; and
iv)   examine actual maintenance operations for different road
standards, traffic volume, terrain, soil and meteorological
conditions with a view to recommend an appropriate mix of labor
and equipment and to increase the effectiveness of the operations.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Budget Allocations
7.        To determine the necessary amount of annual road maintenance
allocations for roads under the EDIM's or under the decentralized divisions'
responsibility, the consultants *will, based on their own findings and on
previous studies (BCEOM 1966, SErEC 1973) and taking into account road
maintenance activities outside the MTP:
i)   determine the annual cost per km of routine, recurrent
and periodic road maini:enance for earth, gravel and paved
roads as a function of traffic, terrain, soil and meteoro-
logical conditions;
ii)   assess the average cost for emergency maintenance due to
cyclones, based on repair costs of damage occurring in
previous years; and
iii)   give a breakdown of the cost evaluated under (i) and (ii) by:
a)  cost element (overhead, personnel, equipment, fuel,
materials, etc.) and region;
b) by budget heading and region; and
c) by budget heading, including cost for MTP headquarters
in Tananarive relevant to road maintenance.
Spare Parts and Equipment
8.        To assist Government in procuring necessary spare parts and
equipment, the consultants will:
i)   make an inventory of all existing DIM road maintenance
equipment, giving its current age and condition and
estimated remaining economically useful life;
ii)   identify, as much as possible by inspection, the spare
parts necessary to rehabilitate defective but economi-
cally reparable equipment;
iii)   establish, based on the findings under 6 (iv), 8 (i) and
8 (ii), a list of additional equipment required immediately
for adequate road maintenance;
iv)   determine the annual requirements for equipment renewal
for a 5-year period and list each item with the estimated
cost taking into account planned expansions of the present
primary and secondary road network;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
v)   prepare, for the spare parts determined under 8 (ii), all
required documents for procuring them locally or, if worth-
while, through international competitive bidding;
vi)   prepare, for the equipment determined under 8 (iii) the
technical specifications and the tender documents for
procuring them through international competitive bidding;
vii)   prepare a tender evaluation report on receipt of tenders
and make recommendations to Government for award; and
viii)   make recommendations to Government on the allocation of
equipment in order to obtain optimal equipment distribution
and standardization within the regions.
D. Time Schedule for Consulting Services and Reports
9.        The consultants shall commence work on the assignment within
30 calendar days after the date of notice to proceed. The assignment is
expected to be completed within 12 months.
10.       The consultants shall submit the following reports in French
within the time limits specified:
i)   an inception report (  copies) within 3 months of the
starting date, summarizing the consultants' preliminary
findings and giving the consultants' detailed further
work program;
ii)   a draft final report (_ copies) within 6 months of the
starting date, containing the consultant's recommendations
for improving the maintenance organization, the necessary
allocations for the road maintenance budget and the pro-
posed list of spare parts and equipment and all assumptions
and calculations that have led to the findings;
iii)   a Final Report (  copies) within 1 month after receiving
commentc on the Draft Final Report;
iv)   procurement documents (_ copies) for equipment and spare
parts within 7 months of the starting date;
v)   a Tender Evaluation Report (__ copies) within 1 month
after receiving the tenders for the equipment; and
vi)   a report (_ copies) within 1 month after receiving the
tenders for the equipment containing the consultant's
recommendations for achieving optimum equipment distribution
and standardization within the regions.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
E. Data, Local Services and Facilities
to be Provided by the Government
11.       The Government will provide the consultants with any available
information and studies required for the services. The Government will,
in particular, allow access to all such information necessary for the
evaluation of the MTP's administrative procedures.
12.       MTP will provide liaison with other agencies as required and
with the consultants carrying out the study on training needs.
13.       The Government will assign, full-time, an appropriate number of
counterparts to work with the consultants in all phases of their work.
14.       The Government will provide the other following facilties and
staff to help the consultants in performing their services in Madagascar
(to be specified by the consultants as part of the Technical Proposal).
June 1976



ANNEX 6
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Progress Reporting Requirements
1.       Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate, no later
than one calendar month after the end of the quarter. The first Report should
cover the quarter ending December 31, 1976.
2.       The Report should contain the following information:
I. General Information
(a) the physical progress accomplished to date of report and during
the reporting period;
(b) actual or expected deviations from the project implementation
schedule;
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect on the
implementation schedule and the actual steps taken or planned to
overcome the difficulties and avoid delays;
(d) expected changes in the completion dates of the project;
(e) key personnel changes in the staffs of the MTP, consultants,
and contractors;
(f) matters which may affect the project cost; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic viability
of the project components.
II. A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation schedule,
showing the progress in each project component and including a planned
and actual expenditure graph.
III. A financial statement set out in tabular form which shows for each of
the project components:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b) revised cost, if appropriate;
(c) actual expenditure:
(d) projected expenditure; and
(e) actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals from the Credit Account.
IV. Brief confirmation of the status of action on each of the covenants
of the Credit Agreement.
June 1976



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Highway Network,  1974
(km)
1/                                           Other     Ferry
Primary Roads                   Secondary Roads2/          Roads4/  (units)
Earth
and
Province                    Paved    Gravel  Earth    Total   Paved    Gravel    Total
Diego Suarez                   480        2      450       932     148    1,242      1,390                    3
Majunga                        845       -       390    1,235       48    3,052       3.100                   1
Tamatave                       487      221      636    1,344      119    1,841      1,960                   17
Tar.anarive                    883       60      410    1,353      194    3,706      3,900                    -
Fianarantsoa                   779       77      952    1,808      112    3,688      3,800                    8
Tulear                         364       19   1,562    1,945        -     5.080      5.080         _          8
3/
3,838      379   4,400    8,617       621   18,609    19,230    4,400           37
1/ Roads fully under MTP responsibility.
2/ Roads for which MTP took over responsibility from local authorities in 1972.
3/ Of which about 85% are classified as all-weather roads, but only about 50% are serviceable all year.
4/ Data per province not available; total is approximate.
Source: MTP and Mission Estimates, April 1975
June 1976



TABLE 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Primary Road System, 1964-74
(km)
Year                Paved                Gravel          Earth           Total
1964                2,096                1,028           4,932           8,056
1965                2,167                  962           4,927           8,056
1966                2,271                  903           4,997           8,171
1967                2,490                  865           5,008           8,363
1968                2,510                  865           4,988           8,363
1969                2,560                  815           4,988           8,363
1970                2,942                  490           4,953           8,385
1971                3,336                  412           4,832           8,580
1972                3,502                  405           4,688           8,595
1973                3,650                  390           4,560           8,600
1974                3,838                  379           4,400           8,617
Source: MTP, April 1975
June 1976



TABLE 3
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration, 1958-71
Semi-trailers
and      Special
Year                Cars      Trucks   Pickups   Buses   Trailers   Vehicles    Totals
1958               14,261    14,293    1,283        487      167         301        30,792
1959               15,981    15,667    1,414        529      253         338        34,182
1960               17,921    16,990    1,567        560      283         355        37,676
1961               20,080    18,287    1,677        559      303         366        41,272
1962               22,143    19,478    1,804        599      346         385        44,755
1963               24,488    20,613    1,888        629      375         413        48,406
1964               27,021    21,665    1,960        662      405         448        52,161
1965               29,540    23,034    2,063        737      443         466        56,283
1966               32,117    24,200    2,130        818      554         484        60,303
1967               34,992    24,824    2,123    1,626        594         531        64,690
1968               37,613    25,87.2    2,142    2,028       637         584        68,876
1969               40,544    27,5313   2,381    2,446        693         660        74,262
1970               43,096    29,220    2,684    2,866        736         738        79,340
1971               45,763    30,898    2,954    3,215        804         773        84,407
% p.a. Growth Rates
1958-71              9.4        6.1       6.4      15.6      12.9        7.5          8.1
1966-71              7.3        5.0       6.8      31.0       7.8        9.9          7.0
Estimated Circulation
1958 2/            12,720    13,388    1,247        459      129         225        28,168
1971 3/            35,794    20,606    2,128    2,889        669         554        62,640
% p.a. Growth Rates
1958-71              7.7        3.4       4.2      15.2      13.5        7.2          6.4
1/ Provisional data; no later information available.
2/ Minus vehicles registered in 1944 or earlier.
3/ Minus vehicles registered in 1955 or earlier.
Source: MAT, October 1972; MTP, Ministere des Finances, 1975
June 1976



TABLE 4
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADACASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Fuel Consumption, 1960-73
('000 m>)
Year                                 Petrol         Gas oil         Total
1960                                   74.0            54.0         128.0
1961                                   75.5            50.1         125.6
1962                                   76.5            54.9         131.4
1963                                   78.0            59.0         137.0
1964                                   83.0            66.0         149.0
1965                                   84.0            70.1         154.1
1966                                   88.0            80.0         168.0
1967                                   90.4            91.0         181.4
1968                                   99.0           117.0         216.0
1969                                  103.1           131.2         234.3
1970                                  104.6           136.6         241.2
1971                                  111.3           158.5         269.8
1972                                  112.2           158.6         270.8
1973                                  115.4           164.2         279.6
% p.a. Growth Rates
1960-71                                 3.8            10.3           7.0
1970-73                                 3.3             2.3           2.7
Source:: MAT, 19'2i
INSRE, "Situation Economique au ler Janvier 1974", 1975
June 1976



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures, 1964-75
(FMG millions)
1964      1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975     1976-1/
A. Current Expenditures
2/
1.  Administration                                       695        949        986      1,010     1,050        990      1,010      1,010    1,200
2. Primary Road Maintenance
-  maintenance                                      480        555       555        579        635        698        699        689    1,300
-  resurfacing                                      120        434        606       575        600        105         87        170      410
-  equipment renewal                                 80        282        132        80        132        118         15         26        ;
Subtotal                                         680     1,271      1,293      1,234      1,367        921        801        885   1,715
3.  Secondary Road Maintenance                           368        638        464        436        431        579        406        262      346
Total Current Expenditures                 1,743      2,858      2.743      2.680      2.848      2,490      2,217      2,157   3,261
3'
B.  Investment ExPenditures                                3,867      4.773      4,699      5,152      3,755      5,309      6,146      5.618   8,977
TOTAL HIGHWAY EXPENDITURES                    5,610      7,631      7,442      7,832      6,603      7,799      8,363      7,775  12,238
1/ Budget provision.
2/ Estimate of linistr>'s total cost share attributablc to Hiehways.
3/ Including equipment.
Source: MTP, April 1975
June 1976



TABLE 6
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenues from Road Users, 1971-74
(FMG millions)
1/       1/
1971     1972      1973-    1974-
Import, customs, consumption and sales taxes on:
2/
Petrol-                                           2,811.2  2,728.8  2.746.6
Gas oil                                           1,027.6  1,084.3  1,053.2
Lubricants                                          132.3    136.1    148.3
Passenger vehicles                                  725.3    636.8    324.2
Freight vehicles                                    402.2    368.6    245.6
Motorcycles and spares                              261.6    123.6    153.8
Chassis, bodies and parts                           411.3    342.3    271.2
Tires                                               420.1    335.1    339.2
Sub-total       6,191.6  5,755.6  5,282.1
Vehicle fees -                                       1,292.8  1,332.6  1,438.0  1,548.3
TOTAL           7,484.4  7,088.2  6,720.1
1/ Mission's estimate of sales tax, based on previous years' statistics
relationships.
2/ Almost entirely collected from the Societe Malgache de Raffinage.
3/  Only from Droit de timbre, vignettes, patentes,taxes sur les vehicules
des Societes. Other revenue information (from droits d'enregistrement,
d'immatriculation, de stationnement, and visites techniques), not
available.
4/ Only vehicle fees figures available.
Source: Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances, Direction des Impots,
Rapport Annuel, Activite de Service, 1972 and 1973.
June 1976



Table 7
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
Primary               Secondary
Road Network           Road Network
1. Roads
Maximum design speed           (km/h)              80                      50
Minimum radius for              (m)               200 (30)                 70 (25)
horizontal curves
Maximum radius for
vertical curves
Crest                      (m)             2,000 (1,500)           1,000 (750)
Sag                        (m)             1,000 (750)               500
Maximum grade                   (%)                  8                     12 (14)
Transversal slope
Pavement                   (%)                 3                       3
Shoulders                  (%)                 4                       3
Pavement width                  (m)            5.5 to 7.0                 4.50
Platform width                  (m)            8.8 to 10.3                6.50 (4.00)
Pavement design                 (t)                10
axle load
2. Bridges
Carriageway width               (m)            3.5 and 7.0                3.0
Sidewalks                       (m)         2x 0.75 to 1.00              2x 1.0
Design load:  in accordance with fascicule:    61                         61 B
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate values adopted in exceptional cases for
specific short sections located either in very mountainous terrain or in
other particularly difficult conditions.
Source:  MTP, April 1975.
June 1976



TABLE 8
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Esti.mated Schedule of Disbursementsl/
Bank/IDA Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                                       at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1976/77
December 31, 1976                                                  1,000
March 31, 1977                                                     2,500
June 30, 1977                                                      4,500
1977/78
September 30, 1972                                                 6,000
December 31, 1977                                                  8,000
March 31, 1978                                                    10,000
June 30, 1978                                                     12,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                               14,500
December 31, 1978                                                17,000
March 31, 1979                                                    17,700
June 30, 1979                                                    18,500
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                               19,300
December 31, 1979                                                20,000
March 31, 1980                                                   20,600
June 30, 1980                                                    21,200
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                               21,700
December 31, 1980                                                22,000
1/ Assumed credit effective date Sept. 30, 1976.
Source: Appraisal Mission, April 1975.
June 1976



TABLE 9
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured for Force Account Works
on Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road
Estimated
Number         Total Cost
FMr million
Earthmoving Equipment
Bulldozers D6                                        4                 70
Graders (120 HP)                                     3                75
Grader  (100 HP)  3                                  1                 20
Water tankers (7 m )      3                          2                 20
Water tank trailers (5 m )                           6                  9
Water pumps (20m3/h)                                 4                  1
Rubber wheel rollers                                 2                 23
Tandem rollers                                       2                 24
Trailed sheeps foot rollerE                          2                  2
Trailed rubber wheel rollers                         2                  1.2
Agricultural tractors                                7                 14
Wheel loaders (1.5 mi)                               4                 80
Wheel loaders (1.0 m3)                               2                 30
Tipping trucks                                      18               126
495.2
Transport Equipment
Pick-ups and vans                                    2                  3
Four wheel drive vehicles                            2                  5
Four wheel drive truck                               1                  7
Supply truck                                         1                  6
Tractor and low loader                               1                 18
39.0
Repair Unit
Servicing unit                                       1                15
Greasing units                                       2                  1.7
Electrowelding unit (300A)                           1                  3.0
Generator (50 KVA)                                   1                  4.0
23.7
Quarry Equipment
Compressors (80 HP)                                  2                 10
Rock drills                                          6                  0.7
Mobile crusher plant (30 m 3,'h)                     1                 70
Wheel loader (1.0 m3)                                1                 15
95.7
Equipment for Drainage Works
Hydraulic excavator (90 HP)                          1                 17
Concrete mixer (0.5 m3)                              1                  0.7
Concrete mixers (0.25 m3)                            2                  0.7
Compressor (30 HP)                                   1                  2
Vibrators                                            4                  1
Trucks (3 ton)                                       2                  8
29.4
Site Installation
Dismountable metallic hangars (lOx30m)               2                  3
Generator (25 KVA)                                   1                  2
5.0
TOTAL 688.0
Source: Mission estimates.
June 1976



TABLE 10
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Vehicle Operating Costs
(FMG/km as of April 1975)
Paved                     Gravel-Earth
Vehicle Type               Good    Regular   Poor         Good    Regular   Poor
Economic
Cars 21                   18.68    21.77    29.92        27.75    32.20    36.74
Light vehicles            26.91    30.19    42.97.       38.99    46.94    54.88
Buses                     37.62    43.03    63.28        56.74    69.81    82.87
Trucks 4-ton load         35.14    38.61    56.00        50.32    61.67    73.02
Trucks 10-ton load        59.62    68.27    98.07        88.34   107.79   127.24
Truck-trailers            77.50    88.75   127.49       114.84   140.13   165.41
Financial
Cars-                     29.72    31.74    42.89        39.78    46.00    52.22
Light vehicles            38.46    40.54    56.96        51.87    62.04    72.21
Buses                     49.55    51.49    74.79        67.07    82.50    97.92
Trucks 4-ton load         47.20    49.34    71.02        63.95    78.08    92.21
Trucks 10-ton load        79.32    85.26   121.98       109.95   134.01   158.07
Truck-trailers           103.12   110.84   158.58       142.94   174.22   205.49
1/ Free flow, flat to rolling terrain. No time value included for
passengers or non-commercial drivers.
2/ Private cars and taxi-be have approximately the same total operating
cost.
For congested flow, the following operating cost increases have been
considered:
Paved
V/C         Good       Regular      Poor
1            2%          -           -
2            7%          5%          2%
3           15%         10%          7%
Source: Appraisal mission estimates, May 1975, based on SETEC's "Etudes de
Factibilite Routiere", 1973, and on the MTP's "Etude des Tarifs de
Transports Routiers", 1974
June 1976



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Arivonimamo-Analavory Road
(FMH millions as of April 1975)
Arivonimamo - PK 65.6                             PK 65.6 - PK 96                               PK 96 - Analavory
(Constructed on new alignment)                          (Resurfacing)                                  (Reconstruction)                          Arivonimamo - Analavory
Vehicle                                        Vehicle                                        Vehicle                                         Vehicle
Construction   iMaintenance   Operating         Construction   Maintenance   Operating         Construction   Maintenance   Operating    Construction   Maintenance    Operating
Year        Cost            Savings       Savings           Cost           Savings        Savings          Cost            Savings       Savings          Cost           Savings         Savings
1976         120                                                                                            190                                            310
1977         220                                             250                                            300                                            770
1978         160              24            41                               47              32             300              37             71             460             108             144
1979                           0            45                                 1             34                               1             76                               2             155
1980                           0             50                                1             37                               1             82                               2             168
1981                           0             54                                1             40                               1             88                               2             181
1982                           0             59                                1             43                               1             94                               2             195
1983                           0             64                                1             46                               1            101                               2             211
1984                         -24             70                             -47              49                             -42            108                            -113             228
1985                          23             77                              47              53                              37            116                             107             246
1986                           0             84                                l             57                               2            124                                3            265
1987                           0             92              -30               1             61                               2            133                                3            286
1988                           0             97                                                                               2            140                                2            237
1989                           1           102                                                                                2            148                                3            250
1990                           1           107                                                                                2            157                                3            264
1991                         -21           113                                                                              -42            166                             -63             279
1992                          21            119                                                                              37            175                              58             294
1993                           1           125                                                                                3            185                                4            310
1994                           2            132                                                                               3            196                                5            328
1995                           2            139                                                                               3            207                                5            346
1996                           2           146                                                                                3            219                                5            365
1997                           2           155                                                                                3            231                                5            386
Basic Rate of Return:                       12.6                                            15.9                                           12.4                                            12.9
Sensitivity:
a)  With shadow exchange rate-          11.6                                             13.9                                           11.4                                            11.7
b)  Excluding cost of bridges           13.9                                             22.0                                           14.4                                            15.0       H
c)  Abandoning existing alignment    13.8                                                                                                                                                          m
1/  The shadow factor for foreign exchange is estimated as 1.25.  According to foreign exchange components, the following increases were applied:  19% on construction cost;
12% on maintenance savings; and 9% on vehicle operating savings.
Source: Mission estimates
June 1976



TABLE 12
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADACASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road
(FMG millions as of April 1975)
B e n e f i t s
Additional                    Generated       Livestock
Construction       Maintenance        Normal      Passenger    Project Net
Year          Cost                Cost          Traffic      Traffic        Benefits 2    Total
1976          100                                                              -lic         --110
1977          800                                                              - 47         - 47
1978          600                 10              16           3                112          131
1979          400                 21              32           7                159          198
1980           90                 42              64          15                216          295
1981                              43              68          16                233          317
1982                             44               72          17                173          262
1983                              44              77          18                200          295
1984                              45              81          19                237          337
1985                              46              86          21                262          369
1986                              47              91          22                263          376
1987                              48              97          23                287          407
1988                              49             103          24                290          417
1989                              50             109          26                290          425
1990                             51              115          27                290          432
1991                              52             112          29                279          420
1992                              53             129          31                287          447
1993                              54             137          33                290          460
1994                              55             145          35                290          470
1995                              56             154          37                290          481
1996                              57             163          39                 0           202
1997                              58             173          41                 0           214
1998                              59             184          44                 0           228
1999                              60             195          46                 0           241
Basic Rate of Return                              11.8
Sensitivity:                 2/
With shadow exchange rate                       11.5
15% construction cost increase                  10.1
Excluding generated passenger traffic           10.8
1/    Only corresponding to the project road area of influence (25% of total Livestock Project).
2/    The following shadow factors were considered: 1.17 for construction cost; 1.12 for maintenance cost:
1.09 for traffic savings: 1.13 increasing throughout the project to 1.16 for livestock benefits.
Source: Mission estimates
June 1976






DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
C                             URBAN.SSTRY
TECHN    ADV ISERS deDrctoreIde
Travaux Pubencs r       t       d      NTRO
0                 et deLHbService d'lt    i
|SECRETARY GENERALW
8                                                                                                                         BUILDINGS AND
cir              CONSTRUCTION                                          MAINTENANCE                                        URBANISM
o9 .2            Direction des                                         Direction de                                       Direction de L'Archi-
8  o        ~~~Travatix Neufs                                     L'lnfrastructure                                   tecture, de L'Urbanisme
._ CJ                                 .                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~et de L'Hatbitat
.S2       Roads and       . Marine Con-                 Roads and         lPorts               Equipment               Buildings         Urbanism                Planning           Administration      Training and
Airports             structions and          Bridges                                and                                                                                                       Public Relat.
Major Structures                                               Workshops               Architecture       Urbanisme              Service Central                         Formation
er    Routes et              ravaLux Maritime       Ponts et           Ports, Phares       Parts et                et                 et                     de                   Service            Mecanique et
1arsi    Bases Aeriennes       Grands Ouvrages         Chaussess          et Balises         mAteliers                Habitat           Amnagement              Programmation        Administratif      Relation publ.
c
i* S
,oe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Tmtv                                                                       TaaXrv
i  2,      |   Diego Suarez                       Fianarantsoa                        Majunga                           Tamatave                              narive                          Tulear
Source: Decret No. 72-029/DM, Malagasy Government, February 1975                                                                                                                            World Bank-i5024(RI






DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND SUPPLIES
MfNISTRY                  Avsr
Ministere des Transports et du      Cosilr
Ravitaillment._
SecretaTy General
Sea, Road and River Transport                             Supplies                                  Civil Aviation and Meteorology
Transports Maritimes, Routiers                            Ravitaillement                             Aero.   ivile et Metorol.
D  ._            : ~~~t Fluviaux__
Mercantife Marine                                       Planning           |                           Air Transport|
Marine marchande                                     Planificatron                                   Transport Aerren
vi C.)                           Port Operation                                                                                     Air Navigation                                       General Matters
is                              Exploitat. portuaire                                                                                Navigation Aerienne                                   Affaires Generales
Roads and River Transport                                                                                  Meteorology
Transports Routiers et                                                                                     M.torologie.
Coast Divisions                                         Provincial Div.                            Airfields and Meteo. Posts  -
.,                           Capitainerie                J                          Provinciaux Rav.                                                n     te
. W  .                                                                                                                              q    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways  RNCFM|
Air Madagascar
Lw                      ENEM Auxiliares de Navig.                                                                            ASECNA
-E                 P.AT. Cie. de Navigation
*v E ,,,,              P.A.T. Cie. de Navigation                                                                            Ecole Natronale d Aviation Civile
_  x s              Bureau Profes. des Transports
Source  Ministrv of TranSPDrt and Supplies, April 1975 W6d Bank 15025(R)






CHART 3
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ELEMENT                            RESPONSIBILITY              1976               1977                1978                 1979                1980
I t:,lsrucrion of RNI
A.  Earth-orks and pavement
1)  Preparation of bidding docu-ents              DTN
2)  Preq.alification of contractors               DTN/IDA
3)  International competitive bidding             DTN
4)  Evaluation of bids and award                  DTN/IDA
5)  Works                                         DTN/Contractor                         - _    _    _
is.  I\ridges
1)  Preparation of bidding documents              DTN_
2)  Prequalification of contractors              DS/IDA
3)  International competitive bidding             DTN
4)  Evaluation of bids and award                  DTN/TDA
5)  Works                                         DTN/Contractor                                _    _         _
Co_s_rtction of Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano Road
A.  F,rth.orks
1)  Preparation of bidding doc--ents              DTN
for equipment
2)  International competitive bidding             DTN
3)  Evaluation of bids and award                  DTN/BADEA/IDA
4)  Procu.rnent of equipoent                      DTN
5)  Works-                                        DIM/Consultant                                               - _   _    _   _   _
B.  Bridges
1)  Preparation of bidding documents              DTN
2)  Prequalification of Contractors               DTN/IDA
3)  International conpctitiv, bidding             DTN
4)  Evaluation of bids and award                  DTN/IDA
5)  Works                                         DTN/Contractor                                _    _    _    _
C.  Supervision and Earthtorks Managenent
I)  Consultant list                               DTN/IDA
2)  Proposals                                     DTN
3)  Evaluation of proposDls                       0TN/IDA
4)  Works                                         DTN/Consultant                           -              - _    _   _    _                       - _
A.  Study
I)  Conssltant list                               SCP/IDA
2)  Proposals                                     SCP
3)  Evaluation of proposals                       SCP/IDA
4)  Execution                                     SCP/Conrsltont
5)  Evaluation of studiy                          SCP/ iDA
B.  Training                                          SCP/Consultant                                            I  -    _   _    -    _   -    _   -    -   -
IV   Organization and _E -ipment
A.  Study of spare parts aud eq' ipent needs
1)  Consultant list                               DIM/IDA
2)  Proposals                                     DIM
3)  Evaluation oF proposals                       DIM/IDA
4)  Sts,dv of needs                               S1IM/Conslsatat
5)  Bvaluation of t-dly                          l)lM/IDA
B.  Procurement
1)  Preparation of bidding documents              DIM
2)  International rom-etitive bidding             DIM
3)  Evaluation of bid, and award                  DIM/IDA
4)  Procurement                                   DIM
C.  Study of DIM's systems
1)  Study                                         SCP
?7  Evaluation                                    SCP/IDA
3)  Implementationz o1 fisd-g.                    FIP
V. Axle-load Control
A.  Progran for enfuorifg regol l ions                MTP/ IDAA
B.  Portable scales and vehicles
1)  Preparation of bidding documnts               DIM
2)  Bidding                                       DIM
3)  Evaluation ot bids and award                  DIM/SDA
4)  Procurement                                    INM
5)  Weighing  -zopaigu,                           BIN
6)  Selection of siteS fur weighbbidges           [TM/ I DA
C.  Weighbridges
1)  Preparation of bidding documents              DIM
2)  Bidding                                       DIM
3)  Evaluation of bids und award                  DIM/lDAl
4)  Procurement                                   DIM
5)  Installation                                  DIM
1/  Start-up with existing eluipl
Assumed Credit Effective Dlto Stpt-baor 30, 1976






Ic
UJ
<   >~ 
:tL                          1F 



