CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 64a MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 23, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1976, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) The Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) a loan
(hereinafter called the BADEA Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to assist in the financing of the civil works to be
carried out by force account under Part B of the Project, on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and BADEA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MTP" means Ministere des Travaux Publics, the Ministry
of Public Works of the Borrower;
(b) "DTN" means Direction des Travaux Neufs, the New Works
Department of MTP;
(c) "DIM" means Direction de 1'Infrastructure et de Main-
tenance, the Infrastructure Department of MTP;
(d) "SCP" means Service Central de Programmation, the Central
Programming Service of NTP;


﻿-3-
(e) "RN1" means the National Road No. 1, a section of which
is to be reconstructed under Part A of the Project; and
(if) "FMG" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1986, and ending April 1, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of
the Project through DTN, Part C of the Project through SCP and
Part D of the Project through DIM with due diligence and effici-
ency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the reconstruction of the section of
RN1 referred to in Part A of the Project and the construction of
bridges under Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall make adequate arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Association for the carrying out.by force account of
civil works mnder Part B of the Project, excluding bridges.
Section 3.03. In order to assist DTN in carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In order to assist MTP in carrying out Parts C
and D of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than De-
cember 31, 1976 or such other date as shall be agreed with the


﻿-7-
Association, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association; (b) submit to the Association, for review,
promptly upon completion, the studies referred to in Part Cl and
Dl of the Project; and (c) consult with the Association regarding
the decisions that it proposes to take in the light of the consul-
tants' recommendations and the means of their implementation.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)


﻿-8-
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (a) take all measures rea-
sonably required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of
vehicles using its national highway network shall not exceed
limits consistent with the design standards for such roads and
(b) not later than December 31, 1976 or such other date as shall
be agreed between the Association and the Borrower, exchange views
with the Association with respect to its proposed program for the
implementation of the said measures.
Section 4.03. Not later than December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Association and the Borrower,
the Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association, prepare
a work program and an implementation schedule to reorganize DI's
maintenance equipment renting system and improve DI's spare parts
supply system.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause its national road net-
work to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary


﻿10
repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound
engineering practices, and shall make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Association, to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such main-
tenance and repairs.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, subject to paragraph (c) of this Section:
(a) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the BADEA Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Proj-
ect shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the BADEA Loan Agreement, or
(b) the BADEA Loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(c) paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in para-
graph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the BADEA Loan Agreement has been duly signed and
conditions precedent to initial disbursements, if any, under the
said BADEA Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the execution and delivery of the
BADEA Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action, and that the said
BADEA Loan Agreement is legally binding upon the borrower and
BADEA respectively, in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 21, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-13-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre des Finances et du Plan of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Plan
Tananarive
Madagascar
Cable address:
MINFINPLAN
Tananarive
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ C. Randrianasolo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works under           9,400,000         70%
Part A of the Proj-
ect and construc-
tion of bridges
under Part B of the
Project
(2) Engineering and             1,200,000         100% of foreign
supervision of                               expenditures or
construction                                 80% of local
expenditures
(3) Study under Part C.1           80,00          100% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
(4) Training under Part         1,700,000         100% of foreign
C.2 of the Project                           expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
(5) Study under Part               90,000         100% of foreign
D.1 of the Project                           expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Spare parts and             3,600,000         100% of foreign
equipment under                              expenditures or
Part D.2 of the                              90% of local
Project                                      expenditures
(7) Weigh-bridges                 500,000         100% of foreign
portable scales and                          expenditures or
vehicles under Part                          90% of local
D.3 of the Project                           expenditures
(8) Unallocated                 5,30,000
TOTAL      22,000,000


﻿(1)7
- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or surply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount


﻿- 18 -
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opin-
ion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would other-
wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Reconstruction of the 67 km two-lane paved Section of RNl
between Arivonimano and Analavory.
B.   Construction to gravel standards of the 370 km secondary
feeder road between Tsiroanomandidy and Maintirano.
C.   1.   A study of MTP's training needs to improve road
maintenance.
2.   Implementation of the study's recommendations.
D.   1.   A study of DIM's equipment conditions and of its
requirements for spare parts and equipment
renewal.
2.   Procurement of spare parts and equipment identi-
fied under Part D.1 above.
3.   Procurement and installation of weigh-bridges and port-
able scales and procurement of vehicles for the enforcement of the
Borrower's axle-load regulations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for civil works
equipment and vehicles shall be let in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines, and at least 30 days
shall be allowed for submission of prequalification documents.
3.   Civil works shall be carried out under three separate unit
price contracts as shown below:
Contract No. 1:     Roads under Part A of the Project;
Contract No. 2:     Bridges under Part A of the Project; and
Contract No. 3:     Bridges under Part B of the Project.


﻿(1)1
- 21 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for the Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano road, except
those for the bridges of said road, shall be carried out by force
account.
2.   Spare parts under Part D.2 of the Project may be procured
through local shopping.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works, Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A.2 of this Schedule and applicants for qualifications ap-
plying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the infcrmation for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to
such preference.


﻿- 22 -
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i)       bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii)      bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part C above and of 'the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such eli-
gibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.


﻿-23-
With respect to any contract for civil works, equipse.it or
vehicles subject to international competitive bidding:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
document or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification of the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) The firms invited to bid shall be allowed at least 60
days for the submission of their proposals. The bidding documents
with respect to civil works shall be accompanied by a bid bond or
bank guarantee amounting to not less than 2% of the estimated con-
tract value.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred
to in Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said consultant, and the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in the Guidelines, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿(d) With respect fo civil works, the succefful bidder shall,
at the Borrower's option, furnish either a performance bond or a
bank guarantee in an amount of not less than 10% of the contract
price, which bond or guarantee shall remain in effect until one
year after completion of the works provided for in the contract.
In addition, the contract shall provide for retention of not less
than 10% of the cost of works on each monthly invoice. These reten-
tions may cease to be made when the cumulative amount retained
reaches about 5% of the total contract price. One-half of the re-
tention monies shall be released when all the work has been sub-
stantially completed, and the other half fourteen days after the
termination of the contractor's responsibility in respect of de-
fects. The period during which the contractor will remain respon-
sible in respect of defects in the works (fair wear and tear ex-
cepted) will extend for one year after provisional acceptance of
the works.
(e) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(f) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the' Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract.
3.   With respect to any contract for spare parts under D.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its


﻿25 -
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first ap-
plicat ion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in re-
spect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.


