PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWorld Froe of Povcrty
FlkfoShop
h W'or(l Hlink
Report No AB77
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                BH-UTAN-Education Development Project
Region                      South Asia Regional Office
Sector                      Secondary education (50%); Tertiary education (20%); Primary education
(15%); Other social services (15%)
Project ID                  P074114
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN
Implementing Agency         MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND EDUCATION
Address                     Address Thimphu, Bhutan
Contact Person Mr Thinley Rinzin
Tel 975-2-327387     Fax. 975-2-325183     Email
thinleyrinzin@hotmatl.com
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           May 8, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         April 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date          September 9, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues
The development of a modern education system in Bhutan began in the 1960s with the launch of the
country's first five-year socioeconomic development plan. Prior to this, the only available form of formal
education was monastic education. From 400 students in 1960, the system has expanded in four decades
to cover over 125,000 students at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels or roughly one-fifth of
Bhutan's population. The system has a seven-year primary cycle, including one year of pre-primary (PP),
followed by a six-year secondary cycle comprising of two years lower, two years middle and two years
higher education program. Grades PP-10 are considered as basic education to be provided free to all
children The higher education sub-sector comprises seven institutes, which together enroll less than
2,000 students.
Expanded access to primary and secondary education was also accompanied by significant progress in
enrolment of girls. In primary education, gender parity is close to being achieved with girls constituting
about 47% of total enrollment. At the secondary level, the gender gap was reduced from 42% in 1991 to
10% in 2002, and the positive trend is expected to continue.
Nonetheless, the country will be increasingly challenged in the coming years as it strives to achieve the
goals articulated in its Education Vision 20/20 document. Considerable resources will be needed to



2
PID
accommodate the growing numbers of young Bhutanese in an education system that must maintain
relevance in the information age, and at the same time, contribute to preservation of the country's unique
socio-cultural values. The private sector, which is anticipated to grow more rapidly as major hydropower
plants come onstream, will demand that secondary and higher education graduates have the right skills to
meet its labor needs.
Achieving universal primary education (UPE)Bhutan's goal is to achieve UPE by 2007. Accurate
determination of enrollment rates, and therefore planning for UPE, is problematic at this time due to the
lack of up-to-date census data. The Ministry of Health and Education (MoHE) has estimated gross and
net enrollment rates in 2002 to be 81% and 61%, respectively, based on a population figure of about
600,000. If population data published in the 2001 Labor Force Survey are used, the corresponding
estimates are about 5% lower. These rates, which are below the South Asian average, imply that
significant efforts will be needed to extend schooling opportunities to all out-of-school children.
Retention of those who enroll is another major challenge. Currently, only 71% of those entering primary
school complete the full seven-year cycle, and 12-13% of students repeat grades every year. This is
attributed in large measure, to inability of the system to deploy a sufficient number of teachers, and the
lack of professional support to existing teachers who have to develop proficiency in new pedagogic
methods, including multi-grade teaching. A 2002 study funded by UNICEF on the causes of dropout and
repetition reported similar conclusions
Constrained education opportunities at the post-primary levMiccessful expansion of primary
education over the past decade has created enormous pressures on the secondary school system despite
rising admission standards each year. While enrollment at the secondary level is expected to double by
2007, resources will be stretched in a sub-sector where service provision costs are high due to school
construction and teacher deployment being constrained by the country's difficult terrain and scattered
pattern of settlements. To cater to widely dispersed groups and relatively low density, a high proportion
of secondary schools are small resulting in low student-teacher ratios, and most schools require boarding
facilities that add to construction costs. Educational materials are also. costly because they have to be
imported from India, and transported to interior regions.
Quality and relevance of education. While no systematic research has been undertaken, the MoHE's own
assessment of students' performance in public examinations indicate a decline in learning outcomes over
recent years. This is supported by informal feedback from parents who point to insufficient competency
levels of school leavers, particularly in languages and mathematics. Employers are also questioning the
responsiveness of secondary and higher education to labor market demands. According to a recently
completed private sector survey, employers consider the lack of skilled labor as one of their biggest
business problems. Raising supply-side quality is critical considering that 45,000 new labor market
entrants will have to find jobs during the 9th Plan period. On the demand side, hydropower exports are
expected to fuel expansion of the formal sector, which is presently quite small outside of government.
This implies that creation of a human resource base with the right skills will take on added urgency in the
coming years.
Institutional capacity for system management.A recent assessment of the institutional capacity of the
Department of Education (DoE) to implement the 9th Plan highlighted a number of constraints and one
bottleneck. The constraints are mostly in the areas of division of labor, leadership and management, and
work practices, while the bottleneck is inadequate human resources. Human resource development in the
DoE, which underpins effective management structures and processes, has unfortunately not kept pace
with the rapid expansion of the education system.



3
PID
Recognizing this, the Government made a policy decision to shift responsibility for school management
from the center to dzongkhag and geog administrations. A human resource development (HRD) master
plan has been developed to build the capacity for a more decentralized management system.
Implementation of the HRD plan will, however, take time and considerable effort before staff turnover
and skill gaps at the central ministry and dzongkhag education offices can be addressed in a more
systematic manner. Until this happens, the center's capacity for policy formulation, program planning,
and monitoring and evaluation of education outcomes, will remain constrained, as will be the capacity at
the dzongkhag and geog levels to take on local school development and management responsibilities.
In addition to human resource development, an improved monitoring and evaluation system is required to
ensure the flow of reliable information to guide development of the sector. The present Education
Management Information System (EMIS) is too limited in scope to allow for capture of all the
information needed for planning and management. There is also a lack of instruments to assess the
impact of education on the labor market prospects of school leavers, and of institutionalized processes to
ensure that the resulting feedback is used to improve school and teacher training curricula. Finally, the
tools for assessing learning achievement (i.e., continuous assessment, standardized tests) have not been
integrated into the overall quality improvement strategy to ensure that parents will be better informed
about their children's progress in attaining the required competency levels, and corrective measures can
be taken to address quality shortcomings.
Government Strategy
The Government is deeply committed to its Vision 20/20 goals, and the education and human resource
development strategy for realizing these goals. The strategy seeks to address the main sector issues
constraining the achievement of 9th Plan education targets
Expanding access to primary and secondary educatiotCommunity participation in the construction
and maintenance of primary schools, introduced by the Government as a measure to meet rising demand
for education with limited resources, will continue to be an important component of the UPE strategy
because of its added benefit of bringing schools closer to communities for greater outreach, particularly
to girls. A school mapping exercise carried out by the dzongkhags covering every geog in the country,
established that 127 new community primary schools will be needed to extend schooling opportunities to
settlements in rural and/or remote areas. The Government is confident that it will be able to mobilize
sufficient resources from donors (Government of India, UNICEF, DANIDA, IDA) to develop these and
other schools, and train an adequate number of teachers to accommodate the projected 6-7% annual
growth in primary enrolments.
The Government has been looking at ways to reduce the costs of service provision at the secondary level.
Boarding facilities, which add significantly to costs, have been rationalized where possible through the
extension of many primary schools, including community schools to include lower secondary sections,
and of some lower secondary schools to middle secondary schools. To reduce costs associated with
construction delays, the traditional school building method, which is time-consuming and highly
dependent on expatriate labor currently in short supply, will be replaced by a new construction
technology using prefabricated materials requiring less time and labor to assemble.
Finally, to reduce the fiscal burden of providing secondary education, the Government is considering an
increased role for the private sector, whose participation in the sub-sector is limited to 12 institutions
catering mainly to students at the higher secondary level. While the Government is willing to lower the
barriers to entry, there remains a genuine concern in the country that private schooling does not lead to a



4
PID
dual system for the haves and have-nots, and create stark differences between rural and urban areas.
To ensure the stock of Bhutanese teachers needed for expansion of both primary and secondary
education, the Government has increased teacher training places in the National Institutes of Education
(NIE), and raised salaries to make teaching more competitive with other public service jobs. Incentives to
attract qualified teachers to rural areas include better staff housing, faster promotion, and more in-service
training opportunities. Until sufficient numbers of Bhutanese teachers have been trained, the Government
will continue to contract teachers externally fronindia. To accelerate the replacement process, greater
efforts will be made to expand pre-service teacher training with support from the Government of
Switzerland. This will be particularly important for primary schools, given that availability of qualified
teachers is critical to reducing repetition and dropout rates.
Improving education quality and relevance.The Government has introduced a number of measures in
recent years to improve quality of the teaching and learning process, particularly at the primary level.
These include the use of resource centers to support clusters of primary schools, a supplementary reading
program to encourage reading and library use, reform of the primary examination system, in-service
teacher training, and strengthened school monitoring and supervision. During the 9th Plan period, the
primary and secondary curricula will be restructured to emphasize mastery of the "3Rs," and to ensure
that the education program is responsive to socioeconomic needs, and is more relevant to the world of
work. Information technology (IT) is expected to play a key role in the new secondary curriculum to
better equip school leavers with skills for the information age.
A new Department of Labor and Employment (DLE) has been established within MoHE to give specific
attention to the mismatch between the supply of school leavers and demand by employers for specific
skills. The DLE currently provides counseling and career information to students, and has been
negotiating with employers, ways to increase job opportunities for school leavers.
To address quality and relevance concerns at the tertiary level, the Government will establish a national
university as the center of excellence for higher education in the country. The university, which is
considered to be central to achievement of Vision 20/20 goals, will be set up as a federated system
comprising a network of existing faculties and specialized institutions across the country. A master plan
is being developed to assess the present status of prospective member institutes, and their capacity
enhancement needs.
Strengthening system management capacityTo address the weaknesses identified in the 2002
institutional capacity assessment, the Government has begun to clarify job responsibilities, and the roles
and accountabilities of each section and management unit within the Education Department. In parallel,
the specific training needs of educational administrators at the dzongkhag and school levels are being
identified. A decision has been taken to double the present number of staff in the Evaluation and
Monitoring Support Services Division (EMSSD), and to provide head teachers with training in school
supervision. In respect of MoHE's future staffing needs, the new Masters of Education program taught in
collaboration with an external university, is expected to be an important source of education planners and
administrators.
The Government has also turned its attention to improving monitoring and evaluation systems,
recognizing the importance of a good knowledge base for planning and management. The EMIS, which is
accessible to all managers including the DEOs, will be upgraded to encompass more areas, and ensure
greater accuracy of education statistics. To improve monitoring of learning achievement, plans are
underway for nationwide implementation of continuous assessment and standardized tests in primary and



5
PID
secondary schools.
Systemjfinancing. In view of the substantial needs of the sector, the Government has earmarked 15% of
the 9th Plan budget to education This will enable education spending to increase by 50% in real terms by
2008/9, demonstrating the Government's continued commitment to a sector that is considered to be
critical for improving national productivity and the quality of life of the Bhutanese people.
2. Objectives
The project will support Bhutan's 9th Five-Year Education Plan (2002-2007) to expand access to primary
and secondary education and improve educational quality at all levels. The Plan is underpinned by the
education sector strategy for achieving Bhutan's Vision 20/20, which provides a framework of
development principles to improve quality of life of its citizens, and is the result of an extensive
bottom-up national consultative process.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Informed cooperation. The Government views IDA as one of its principal development partners in the
education sector, valuing both its technical advice and financial support. This is attributed in large part,
to the relatively rich sector experience that IDA has gained through its support to two projects since
1987. The strong rapport established between IDA and the MoHE as well as other donors led to a close
partnership in finalization of Bhutan's Education Sector Strategy for the 9th Plan. The development
partners participated in a preliminary workshop on the strategy at the World Bank, and IDA and
Switzerland were subsequently invited to review the draft Strategy and provide input for its refinement.
The continued presence of IDA in the sector through this project is seen by the Government as being
crucial for mobilizing the necessary financial support to bring the 9th Plan to fruition.
Policy analysis. To deepen the analysis of policy options for achieving the 9th Education Plan objectives,
a Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) grant was used to finance studies centered on
curriculum reform, introduction of IT education in secondary schools, and tertiary education
development. Early in the project preparation phase, IDA and Switzerland also sponsored study tours to
the Highlands and Islands University in Scotland, an example of a federated university system to help the
Government formulate its ideas for developing a similar system in Bhutan as part of its higher education
strategy.
4. Description
The total project cost is US$33.7 million, of which the Bank will finance US$30.3 million.
Component 1: Expand access to primary and secondary education (US$24.6 million)
This component will support a school construction program to provide 3,000 additional primary school
places another 7,000 at the secondary level. The schools will be built using a new technology based on
light gauge steel framing (LGSF) that, unlike traditional construction methods, will not be constrained by
timber and expatriate labor shortages. Since the technology will be adopted for the first time in the
country to build 29 schools, the trainihg of workers, site supervisors, engineers and other technical
personnel, is a key element for the success of the construction program. Training activities supported
under this component will also contribute to the development of a knowledge and skills base in the LGSF
technology for potentially wider application in the economy. The construction and training activities will
be financed under two sub-components as follows:
1.1 Sclhool building/upgrading progranm. Financial support will be provided for the construction of five
new schools (three lower secondary, one middle secondary, and one higher secondary), and the



6
PID
upgrading/extension of 24 existing ones. In cases where an existing school is to be expanded,
rehabilitation of old/existing buildings will be included in the civil works in order that the entire school is
brought up to the required standards. Furniture will be provided to all 29 schools. As the LGSF
construction method requires the importation of large quantities of prefabricated materials, a proper
storage facility and sound logistics for distribution will be required to ensure the smooth and timely
delivery of supplies to the different construction sites. To address this need, financing will also be
included for the construction of a warehouse in Phuentsholing (at Bhutan's border with India at the
south) for storage of construction materials.
1.2 Capacity buildingfor the new construction technology. This sub-component will support capacity
building both within School Planning and Building Division (SPBD) and a group of local contractors
interested in working with the LGSF technology. A multi-track training program is envisaged,
comprising institution-based and on-site training for construction workers, overseas fellowships for
SPBD foremen and engineers, and short-term courses for contractors' engineers. Details of the training
program are provided in Annex 12.
Project Component 2: Improve quality and relevance of education at all levels (US$4.3 million)
This component will have four main thrusts. First, it will support more effective teaching learning
processes in primary and secondary schools. Second, an Innovation Grants scheme for primary and
secondary schools will be implemented to foster innovative, locally developed approaches to school
quality improvement. Third, it will support a 9th Plan objective of introducing IT in secondary schools. A
final thrust will be to help the Government establish a national university secretariat - the core unit of a
federated system responsible for academic programming and quality assurance of all course offerings by
affiliated institutions. These thrusts will be supported through four sub-components:
2.1 Increase effectiveness of teaching and learning.The main areas covered by this sub-component
include: (i) reform of the Mathematics curriculum; (ii) expansion of supplementary reading and school
library development programs; and (iii) extension of the rural network of resource centers supporting
clusters of nearby schools.
Mathematics curriculum. The grades 7-10 mathematics curriculum will be restructured in view of the
low student achievement in mathematics as reflected in poor examination results. The associated
textbooks and teacher manuals will be rewritten, and in-service training on the revised curriculum will be
provided to mathematics teachers.
School library development and supplementary reading progrffihsse programs, which were
introduced under the ongoing Second Education Project (SEP), will be expanded to 285 primary and
secondary schools to improve reading skills and foster positive reading habits amongst students and
teachers. The programs will also be integrated with the learning of English and Dzongkha.
Resource centers Support for the establishment of 15 new resource centers will be provided in two
phases. Eight centers are planned for the first phase, after which an assessment will be conducted to
guide implementation of the next phase to complete expansion of the network. The new resource centers
will facilitate learning and enrich school life through teamwork, sharing of resources, use of local
expertise in improving basic learning skills particularly in English, Mathematics and Dzongkha. Centers
catering to rural and remote schools will also offer learning opportunities for teachers to deal with
multi-grade teaching, which is necessitated by teacher shortages.



7
PID
2.2 Innovationfor quality improvement.An innovation grants scheme will be introduced to encourage
local initiatives to address specific problems faced by schools in improving student performance. Grants
ranging from US$2,000 to US$8,000 per school will be awarded on a competitive basis to about 160
schools for implementation of quality enhancement projects. A School Grants Committee (SGC)
consisting of representatives from Policy and Planning Division (PPD), Curriculum and Professional
Support Section (CAPSS), and EMSSD is expected to develop the selection criteria and guidelines of the
scheme, which will be publicized in the national newspaper, education bulletins, CAPSS Newsletter and
offices of the DEOs.
2.3 Introduction of IT in secondary schoolTiis sub-component will provide the required inputs
(technical assistance, hardware and software) for introducing IT in secondary schools over two phases.
Inputs during the first phase will enable 28 higher secondary schools to implement a newly developed IT
curriculum, as well as develop a small group of professionals to help implement IT education in schools
and Teacher Training Institutes (TTI). The second phase of support will begin when MoE finalizes a
time-bound action plan for integrating IT education into secondary schools and teacher training curricula.
The plan, which aims to, among other objectives, provide schools with greater access to information for
teaching and learning, and increase the computer literacy of secondary school teachers and students, will
be a critical first step to building a human resource base for a viable IT industry in Bhutan.
2.4 Establishnment of thte National University Secretarlut.accordance with the master plan for
development of the National University of Bhutan, this sub-component will support the establishment of
a Secretariat to facilitate academic programming and quality control within the federated system of six
colleges. In addition to the construction and equipping of new physical infrastructure to house the offices
of the Vice Chancellor, Registrar, and other core offices of the National University, technical assistance
will be provided for preparing the institution's strategic development and funding plans.
Project Component 3: Institutional strengthening (US$4.8 million)
Support will be provided under this component for staff development at the central, dzongkhag and
school levels to strengthen functional units directly engaged in leading education reforms as well as those
providing essential support to the system. The component will also address infrastructure needs of the
new MoE to improve its operational efficiency. A second thrust of this component aims to strengthen
monitoring and evaluation systems to provide policy makers with an improved knowledge base on the
education system. Activities fall under two sub-components:
3.1 Capacity building at the Center, dzongkhag and school levelsThis sub-component will finance
two key inputs for institutional strengthening -- human resource development, and upgrading of physical
capacity. The first input is critical for enhancing the MoE's human resource base, while the second
addresses its present infrastructure constraints.
Human resource development Several groups of people will benefit from the capacity building program.
The first group will be key staff in core ministry divisions - Policy and Planning, School Planning and
Building, Administration and Finance, Evaluation Monitoring and Services Support, and Adult and
Higher Education. At the district level, leadership and management training will be provided to DEOs,
while some promising teachers will have the opportunity to pursue graduate studies in English and
Mathematics.
Physical capacity enhancementA new complex will be constructed to house all MoE staff at one
location. This is expected to improve coordination and administrative efficiency, given that staff will no



8
PID
longer be dispersed across three different locations in Thimphu as in the present situation. To address
current inefficiencies in the storage, stocktaking and distributioif textbooks and learning materials,
new education stores will be constructed and equipped with the requisite computer hardware and
software systems to handle requisitions, stock balances, projections of annual needs, and distribution.
Store staff will receive short-term training in the use of the new systems.
3.2  Monitoring and EvaluatidAain areas supported under this sub-component include: (i)
institutionalization of improved tools for measuring learning achievement (standardized tests for English
and Mathematics at grades 5, 7 and 10); (ii) development of new instruments to assess the relevance of
education/training curricula to labor needs (tracer study to follow grades 10 and 12 school leavers and
college graduates over time); and (iii) studies to assess the impact of ongoing and new Project-supported
quality enhancement interventions on learning outcomes (supplementary reading programs, school
libraries, resource centers, continuous assessment, school innovation grants, and in-service teacher
training). The tracer study will be complemented by an employers survey, expected to be developed
under another proposed IDA-financed operation (Private Sector Development Project). It is expected that
feedback from these two instruments will be used to inform decision makers on curriculum reform and
adjustment of labor policies.
Expanding access to primary and secondary education
Improving quality and relevance of education at all levels
Strengthening institutional capacity
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $3.43
IBRD
IDA                        $30.32
Total Project Cost         $33 75
6. Implementation
Implementation period: Six years
The project will implemented by the DoE, expected to become the new MoE following bifurcation of the
existing MoHE. All project management and administrative functions will be carried out as per the
regular functioning of the DoE/MoE. No separate project implementation unit will be established.
The project management structure (see Annex 14) will be similar to the one established under the
ongoing SEP. The Project Director will be the Director-General of Education (Secretary of Education
when the MoE is created). The Project Director will be supported by a Project Coordinator - a planning
officer in the PPD whose primary function is to liaise with division/section heads on day-to-day issues
related to the Project components under their management. Other functions of the Coordinator include
the maintenance of project records and preparation of progress reports, coordination of Bank missions,
and organization of the mid-term review and end-of-project review.
General implementation guidelines and procedures are contained in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) prepared by the Government. Arrangements for executing key project activities and ensuring
compliance with IDA financial and procurement guidelines are summarized below:
Implementation of civil works. The school construction program will be centrally executed by the SPBD.
The SPBD will also develop the standard designs and drawings for other project-supported educational
facilities including the University Secretariat, Education Stores and the MoE complex. In respect of the



9
PID
construction of resource centers, dzongkhags will tender and supervise the works using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. All procurement and financial documentation for resource
center construction will be carried out by dzongkhag administrations under the supervision of the district
education officers. The documentation will be forwarded to MoH-E for accounting and auditing purposes
Procurement of goods and services Procurement of goods (equipment, furniture) will be carried out by
the Procurement Unit under the Administration and Finance Division (AFD) of the DoE. Procurement of
consulting services will be carried out by the PPD in close consultation with the concerned DoE division
or unit. Procurement of goods and services financed under the innovation grants sub-component will be
decentralized to schools. NCB procurement methods consistent with IDA guidelines will be used by the
schools that have been awarded innovation grants.
Financial Management The MoHE will be the key implementing agency for the project. All project
activities, including civil works, will be coordinated by the ministry and financial management of the
project will be the responsibility of the AFD in the MoHE.
Funds Flow Project funds will be deposited in a Special Dollar Account (SDA) to be opened at the
Royal Monetary Authority (RMA). For most project expenses, MoHE will send payment requests to the
Department of Budget and Accounts (DBA), which will instruct the RMA to effect the payment. For
recurrent/operating expenses of the project, the normal government practice of the letter of credit system,
whereby the RGoB authorizes the bank to honor payments up to a specified ceiling amount, will be
followed. [to be expanded]
7. Sustainability
Overall, sustainability is likely to be high for the reasons discussed under Indicators of Borrower
Commitment and Ownership (Section D 4).
Project-supported civil works activities will increase recurrent costs. Incremental costs as a result of
O&M requirements for new infrastructure, and staffing needs of new/expanded schools have been
estimated to be around US$3.0 million. This increment can be comfortably accommodated within the
recurrent budget envelope, given that the Government has pledged to increase total spending on
education from about US$31.0 million in 2002/3 to US$46.0 million by 2008/9, and the share of
recurrent in total budget is expected to remain at the historical level of just above 60%. Other activities
proposed in the project (e.g. provision of library books, technical assistance for improved in-service
teacher training, monitoring and evaluation of student performance) will not increase recurrent spending,
and are expected to result in improved educational outcomes that will increase the efficiency of resource
use in the long run.
Nonetheless, the following factors will influence the sustainability of the proposed project:
*   Realization of the anticipated high rates of economic growth and Government revenues resulting
from the hydro power and other sectors;
*   Continuation of donors' and other stakeholders' commitment to education goals; and
*   Preventive maintenance of new infrastructure is carried out to avoid expensive rehabilitation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Both the Primary Education Project (PEP) and the ongoing SEP have successfully demonstrated that
integration of project activities within the overall national education program has the advantage of
addressing education challenges in a holistic manner using existing institutions. Following the same
model, no separate implementation unit will be established for the proposed Project.



10
PID
Experience from civil works implementation under PEP and SEP indicates that advance preparatory work
-- site surveys, designs, drawings, simplification of bidding documents, and capacity building at the local
level - is extremely important to avoid construction delays. To mitigate the risk of late startup leading to
future delays, preparatory activities for the project will be completed well before project effectiveness.
Furthermore, a training strategy has been designed to ensure that adequate capacity for undertaking the
school building program will be developed in a timely manner. Having learned that the present
labor-intensive and time-consuming construction methods are a primary cause of delays in completion of
new schools, the proposed project will adopt a new building technology -- LGSF -- that is faster and will
not be constrained by the current shortages in expatriate labor and local building materials (timber).
Finally, the proposed Project supports a sector development program, which is based on the country's
own vision and formulated through a very inclusive and participatory approach, thereby assuring strong
ownership by local communities and government authorities at all levels.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The project will not raise any significant environmental issues. The environmental
issues considered are primarily those related to siting (land clearing), construction, operations and
maintenance. Given that inappropriate construction designs, haphazard construction practices and poor
operations may have the potential for local environmental impacts, the Government has prepared a set of
guidelines for school construction to ensure that good environmental practices will be adopted by
dzongkhags and geogs. Preparation of these guidelines, which provide the basis for a sound
environmental management plan, has been done by the SPBD, a specialized agency with 15 years of
experience in school building in Bhutan. The Government will publish the guidelines on its website.
RGOB has prepared an Environmental Management Plan to ensure that land use for school will not have
adverse impacts. RGOB has conducted grassroots consultations as part of the Ninth Plan consultative
process, and communities needs and priorities have been reflected in this planning. Summaries of have
been separately disclosed and will be available on the RGOB website.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Chingboon Lee
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 202.458.0371
Fax: 202.522.3408
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone. (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http// www worldbank org/infoshop



11
PID
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  05/08/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
L°ARCH __    j LySEo ACK       L   s        LiOWCASEi ihAI _



