ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                AWorld Froc ol Povorty
WlifoShop
lbc Witid lknk
Report No AC63
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/08/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BHUTAN                                 ProjectlD: P074114
Project: Education Development Project          Task Team Leader: Chingboon Lee
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 28, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: September 9, 2003                IDA Amount ($m): 30.32
Managing Unit: SASHD                             Sector: Secondary education (50%); Tertiary
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  education (20%); Primary education (15%); Other
Status: Lending                                 social services (15%)
Theme: Other human development (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project will support Bhutan's 9th Five-Year Education Plan (2002-2007) to expand access to primary
and secondary education and improve educational quality at all levels. The Plan is underpinned by the
education sector strategy for achieving Bhutan's Vision 20/20, which provides a framework of
development principles to improve quality of life of its citizens, and is the result of an extensive
bottom-up national consultative process.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The total project cost is US$33.7 million, of which the Bank will finance US$30.3 million.
Component 1: Expand access to primary and secondary education (US$24.6 million)
This component will support a school construction program to provide 3,000 additional primary school
places another 7,000 at the secondary level. The schools will be built using a new technology based on
light gauge steel framing (LGSF) that, unlike traditional construction methods, will not be constrained by
timber and expatriate labor shortages. Since the technology will be adopted for the first time in the
country to build 29 schools, the training of workers, site supervisors, engineers and other technical
personnel, is a key element for the success of the construction program. Training activities supported
under this component will also contribute to the development of a knowledge and skills base in the LGSF
technology for potentially wider application in the economy. The construction and training activities will
be financed under two sub-components as follows:
1.1 School building/upgrading program. Financial support will be provided for the construction of five
new schools (three lower secondary, one middle secondary, and one higher secondary), and the



2
ISDS
upgrading/extension of 24 existing ones. In cases where an existing school is to be expanded,
rehabilitation of old/existing buildings will be included in the civil works in order that the entire school is
brought up to the required standards. Furniture will be provided to all 29 schools. As the LGSF
construction method requires the importation of large quantities of prefabricated materials, a proper
storage facility and sound logistics for distribution will be required to ensure the smooth and timely
delivery of supplies to the different construction sites. To address this need, financing will also be
included for the construction of a warehouse in Phuentsholing (at Bhutan's border with India at the
south) for storage of construction materials.
1.2 Capacity buildingfor the new construction technology. This sub-component will support capacity
building both within School Planning and Building Division (SPBD) and a group of local contractors
interested in working with the LGSF technology. A multi-track training program is envisaged,
comprising institution-based and on-site training for construction workers, overseas fellowships for
SPBD foremen and engineers, and short-term courses for contractors' engineers. Details of the training
program are provided in Annex 12.
Project Component 2: Improve quality and relevance of education at all levels (US$4.3 million)
This component will have four main thrusts. First, it will support more effective teaching learning
processes in primary and secondary schools. Second, an Innovation Grants scheme for primary and
secondary schools will be implemented to foster innovative, locally developed approaches to school
quality improvement. Third, it will support a 9th Plan objective of introducing IT in secondary schools. A
final thrust will be to help the Government establish a national university secretariat - the core unit of a
federated system responsible for academic programming and quality assurance of all course offerings by
affiliated institutions. These thrusts will be supported through four sub-components:
2.1 Increase effectiveness of teaching and learning.The main areas covered by this sub-component
include: (i) reform of the Mathematics curriculum; (ii) expansion of supplementary reading and school
library development programs; and (iii) extension of the rural network of resource centers supporting
clusters of nearby schools.
Mathematics curriculum. The grades 7-10 mathematics curriculum will be restructured in view of the
low student achievement in mathematics as reflected in poor examination results. The associated
textbooks and teacher manuals will be rewritten, and in-service training on the revised curriculum will be
provided to mathematics teachers.
School library development and supplementary reading prograihese programs, which were
introduced under the ongoing Second Education Project (SEP), will be expanded to 285 primary and
secondary schools to improve reading skills and foster positive reading habits amongst students and
teachers. The programs will also be integrated with the learning of English and Dzongkha.
Resource centers Support for the establishment of 15 new resource centers will be provided in two
phases. Eight centers are planned for the first phase, after whichi an assessment will be conducted to
guide implementation of the next phase to complete expansion of the network. The new resource centers
will facilitate learning and enrich school life through teamwork, sharing of resources, use of local
expertise in improving basic learning skills particularly in English, Mathematics and Dzongkha Centers
catering to rural and remote schools will also offer learning opportunities for teachers to deal with
multi-grade teaching, which is necessitated by teacher shortages.



3
ISDS
2.2 Innovation for quality improvement.An innovation grants scheme will be introduced to encourage
local initiatives to address specific problems faced by schools in improving student performance. Grants
ranging from US$2,000 to US$8,000 per school will be awarded on a competitive basis to about 160
schools for implementation of quality enhancement projects. A School Grants Committee (SGC)
consisting of representatives from Policy and Planning Division (PPD), Curriculum and Professional
Support Section (CAPSS), and EMSSD is expected to develop the selection criteria and guidelines of the
scheme, which will be publicized in the national newspaper, education bulletins, CAPSS Newsletter and
offices of the DEOs.
2.3 Introduction of IT in secondary schooThis sub-component will provide the required inputs
(technical assistance, hardware and software) for introducing IT in secondary schools over two phases.
Inputs during the first phase will enable 28 higher secondary schools to implement a newly developed IT
curriculum, as well as develop a small group of professionals to help implement IT education in schools
and Teacher Training Institutes (TTI). The second phase of support will begin when MoE finalizes a
time-bound action plan for integrating IT education into secondary schools and teacher training curricula.
The plan, which aims to, among other objectives, provide schools with greater access to information for
teaching and learning, and increase the computer literacy of secondary school teachers and students, will
be a critical first step to building a human resource base for a viable IT industry in Bhutan.
2.4 Establishment of the National University Secretariat.accordance with the master plan for
development of the National University of Bhutan, this sub-component will support the establishment of
a Secretariat to facilitate academic programming and quality control within the federated system of six
colleges. In addition to the construction and equipping of new physical infrastructure to house the offices
of the Vice Chancellor, Registrar, and other core offices of the National University, technical assistance
will be provided for preparing the institution's strategic development and funding plans.
Project Component 3: Institutional strengthening (US$4.8 million)
Support will be provided under this component for staff development at the central, dzongkhag and
school levels to strengthen functional units directly engaged in leading education reforms as well as those
providing essential support to the system. The component will also address infrastructure needs of the
new MoE to improve its operational efficiency. A second thrust of this component aims to strengthen
monitoring and evaluation systems to provide policy makers with an improved knowledge base on the
education system. Activities fall under two sub-components:
3.1 Capacity building at tlte Center, dzongkhag and school levelsThis sub-component will finance
two key inputs for institutional strengthening -- human resource development, and upgrading of physical
capacity. The first input is critical for enhancing the MoE's human resource base, while the second
addresses its present infrastructure constraints.
Human resource development. Several groups of people will benefit from the capacity building program.
The first group will be key staff in core ministry divisions - Policy and Planning, School Planning and
Building, Administration and Finance, Evaluation Monitoring and Services Support, and Adult and
Higher Education. At the district level, leadership and management training will be provided to DEOs,
while some promising teachers will have the opportunity to pursue graduate studies in English and
Mathematics.
Physical capacity enhancementA new complex will be constructed to house all MoE staff at one
location. This is expected to improve coordination and administrative efficiency, given that staff will no



4
ISDS
longer be dispersed across three different locations in Thimphu as in the present situation. To address
current inefficiencies in the storage, stocktaking and distributhimf textbooks and learning materials,
new education stores will be constructed and equipped with the requisite computer hardware and
software systems to handle requisitions, stock balances, projections of annual needs, and distribution.
Store staff will receive short-term training in the use of the new systems.
3.2  Monitoring and Evaluatidoain areas supported under this sub-component include: (i)
institutionalization of improved tools for measuring learning achievement (standardized tests for English
and Mathematics at grades 5, 7 and 10); (ii) development of new instruments to assess the relevance of
education/training curricula to labor needs (tracer study to follow grades 10 and 12 school leavers and
college graduates over time); and (iii) studies to assess the impact of ongoing and new Project-supported
quality enhancement interventions on learning outcomes (supplementary reading programs, school
libraries, resource centers, continuous assessment, school innovation grants, and in-service teacher
training). The tracer study will be complemented by an employers survey, expected to be developed
under another proposed IDA-financed operation (Private Sector Development Project). It is expected that
feedback from these two instruments will be used to inform decision makers on curriculum reform and
adjustment of labor policies.
Components:
Expanding access to primary and secondary education
Improving quality and relevance of education at all levels
Strengthening institutional capacity
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The national program covers the entire country.
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments. The proposed project would not raise any significant environmental issues. Those considered are
primarily related to siting (land clearing), construction operation and maintenance. These impacts can be
managed by development and implementation of good environmental practices. Bidding documents will
include criteria for environmental management and appropriate codes of practice will be followed for



5
ISDS
buildings, water and sanitation.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
As the objective is to support the 2002-2007 education sector plan of Bhutan, indigenous peoples areas
may receive direct and indirect benefits of IDA financing of schools and education system quality,
including improved access to basic education, as would the rest of the country.
Il.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None.
II.D.Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not required.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environment: Inclusion of construction guidelines in bidding documents for environmental factors.
Social: Confirmation of consultative process with particular reference to indigenous peoples and
follow-up during implementation. Grassroots (i.e., geog-level) consultations on 9th Plan education
programs are described in Annex II and indicate the Government's sensitivity towards culturally
appropriate education solutions.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The education plan is based on analytical work undertaken by the Mol-HE soon after the country
published its Vision 20/20, a product of extensive consultation within Government and civil society.



6
ISDS
Three inter-related tasks contributed to the development of this plan. First, was the analytical work
carried out by the MoHfE using support from different stakeholders within Government, representatives
of employers and technical training, as well as donors (The World Bank, Switzerland and DANIDA).
The current status of the education sector was assessed, issues identified, alternatives weighed and the
principle strategies to achieve the goals enshrined in Vision 20/20 defined. This led to the Education
Sector Strategy, a paper that was widely discussed and finally endorsed by all the dzongkhags and
MoHE. Second, was the formulation of a bottom-up geog (block) based, Dzongkhag Education Sector
Masterplan for access to basic and secondary education. Coordinated by the dzongkhag administrations,
this engaged every community in a review of its status and established a framework for every child to
access basic education in their own dzongkhag. A third task was the work undertaken by education
boards and commissions to address education-related issues such as youth and employment, IT, private
schools and Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). These have been synthesized to
develop the Education Plan.
A similar consultative process is envisaged for the mid-term review of the Education Plan to be
undertaken in 2005. This will involve independent assessment reports of major components, and
discussion forums involving key stakeholders including participants from civil society and the
government. Midway through the Ninth Five-Year Plan period, RGOB plans to undertake dzongkhag and
community-wise consultations to review implementation of the Plan activities, as well as lay the initial
ground work for consultations and planning for the next plan period. Feedback from communities,
including indigenous peoples, will be incorporated into decision making for undertaking EDP course
corrections. As was the case for preparation of the Ninth Plan, consultations for the Tenth Plan will
involve the full participation of communities in each dzongkhag for defining their own development
priorities. This will include communities of indigenous peoples, such as the Brokpa in north-eastern
Trashigang Dzongkhag, and the Layaps of northern Gasa Dzongkhag.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expecled      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure



7
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 10/15/2002    3/11/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             10/30/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              11/4/2002     3/17/2003
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Re. Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan: See Section I B comments. Bidding
documents will include criteria for management of siting and appropriate codes of practice for buildings,
water, and sanitation will be followed. Construction guidelines will be submitted.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Chingboon Lee                               April 11, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Frederick Swartzendruber/Person/World Bank  April 11, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Warren Waters/Person/World Bank        April 11, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                        April 11, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Michelle Riboud                             April 11, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH        i E  A      _                U       E.ZI]
I, F ED8 CK__  t _    ,_            , 



