Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3820-BHU 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Education Development Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 4, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3820-BHU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 2003, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a school that receives an innovation grant for 
quality enhancement under Part B.2 of the Project; 
 
(b) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
plan dated April 15, 2003, satisfactory to the Association, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
measures for mitigating the potential environmental impact of the Project, as the same 
may be updated from time to time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“Innovation Grants” means the innovation grants provided for under Part 
B.2 of the Project; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“LGSF” means light gauge steel frame;  
 
(f) 
“MoE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education or any successor 
entity thereto; 
 
(g) 
“MoLHR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Human 
Resources or any successor thereto; 
 
(h) 
“Ninth Five-Year Plan” means the Borrower’s Ninth Five-Year Plan 
(2002-2007) for socio-economic development; 
 
(i) 
“Peoples Consultation Plan” means the Borrower’s plan dated 
 
May 30, 2003, satisfactory to the Association, ensuring that local communities benefit 
from the Project, as the same may be updated from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association;  
 
(j) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Borrower’s Project 
Implementation Plan, satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, including any 
amendments made to such plan, from time to time, with the Association’s approval, that 
sets forth various procedures and information necessary for carrying out the Project; 
performance indicators and monitoring and evaluation guidelines; administrative, 
accounting and financial procedures; procurement and disbursement guidelines; and 
environmental matters; 
 
(k) 
“SPBD” means the School Planning and Building Division within MoE. 
 
(l) 
“Special Account A” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b)(i) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Special Account B” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b)(ii) 
of this Agreement; and 
 
(n) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement, being Special Account A and Special Account B collectively. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 22,000,000). 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars separate special deposit accounts in the Royal Monetary Authority on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association as follows: (i) a special deposit account 
(Special Account A) for the purposes of all Parts of the Project other than Parts B.1(c) 
and B.2; and (ii) a special deposit account (Special Account B) for the purposes of Parts 
B.1(c) and B.2 of the Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2013, and ending 
 
March 15, 2043. Each installment to and including the installment payable on  
March 15, 2023, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  7
-
6
-
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Tashichhodzong 
 
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
890-201 
 
323154 
 
Thimphu, 
Bhutan 
     
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Yeshey Dorji 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Marilou 
Uy 
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
 
 
97% 
 
 
(a) For Part B.1(c) 
100,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
 
 
(b) For other parts of  
 
9,900,000 
 
the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods 
   
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex factory cost) 
 
and 95% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(a)  For Part B.1(c) of 
120,000 
 
the Project 
 
(b)  For other parts of 
   6,980,000 
 
the Project 
 
 
(3)      
Consultants’ services 
720,000      
97%
 
(4) 
Training 
1,780,000 
   100% 
 
(5)     Innovation Grants under 
 
         150,000 
                100% 
 
Part B.2 of the Project 
Page  11
-
10
-
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6) Unallocated 
2,250,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL  
 
22,000,000 
 
========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (5), unless and until guidelines for the 
processing, approval and implementation of Innovation Grants satisfactory to the 
Association have been developed and adopted by the Borrower. 
 
4.  
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the 
provisions of the Rules on the Sales Tax, Customs and Excise Act of the Kingdom of 
Bhutan 2000, which provide for an exemption of taxes and customs duties levied in the 
territory of the Borrower on goods for this Project. If any change is made to said rules 
which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods, the percentages 
referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
costing less than $700,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$125,000 equivalent each; (iii) service of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) service of individual consultants under contract 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (v) training; and (vi) Innovation Grants, each under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist in the implementation of the 
education development program in the Ninth Five-Year Plan; and (b) to that end, to 
expand access to primary and secondary education and to improve the quality and 
relevance of education at all levels. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Expanding Access to Primary and Secondary Education 
1. 
Construction of 4 new secondary schools, and upgrading/extension of about 25 
existing primary and secondary schools using LGSF construction technology.  
 
2. 
Construction of a warehouse for storage of LGSF construction materials. 
 
3. 
Provision of institution-based and on-site training in LGSF technology to school 
leavers, SPBD and local contractor staff. 
 
Part B
:
Improving Quality and Relevance of Education at all Levels
1. 
Enhancement of effectiveness of teaching and learning processes through: (a) the 
revision of the mathematics curriculum; (b) the expansion of the school library 
development and supplementary reading programs to about 300 primary and secondary 
schools; and (c) the establishment of about 15 additional resource centers to support 
clusters of nearby schools, particularly in remote areas. 
 
2. 
Financing of innovation grants to assist selected primary and secondary schools 
in carrying out quality enhancement schemes. 
 
3. 
Expansion of the existing information technology (IT) education program for 
middle and higher secondary schools through: (a) the implementation of a newly 
developed IT curriculum; and (b) the development of a small cadre of IT specialists to 
spearhead wider application of IT education. 
 
4. 
Establishment of a secretariat for the Royal University of Bhutan to facilitate 
academic programming and quality control within the federated system of colleges 
through: (a) the construction of offices for secretariat officials; and (b) the provision of 
technical assistance for the preparation of strategic development and funding plans.  
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Carrying out of a human resource development program through the provision 
of: (a) fellowships to MoE staff for further studies in their various professional fields;  
(b) training to Dzongkhag Education Officers in leadership and management; and  
(c) scholarships to selected teachers for graduate studies in English and Mathematics. 
 
2. 
Construction and equipping of: (a) a complex to accommodate all MoE staff in 
one location; and (b) education stores at the center and selected regional locations.  
 
3. 
Strengthening of monitoring and evaluation systems through: (a) the 
institutionalization of improved tools for measuring learning achievement; (b) the 
development of new instruments to assess the relevance of education/training curricula to 
labor needs; and (c) the carrying out of studies to assess the impact of ongoing and new 
Project-supported quality enhancement interventions on learning outcomes.    
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
(i) All works; and (ii) furniture, office equipment, stationary, textbooks, 
learning and other reference materials and construction materials estimated to cost less 
than $125,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
(iii) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed with the Association; 
 
(iv) 
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(v) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders; 
 
(vi) 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidders or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(x) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates; 
 
(xi) 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
 
(xii) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xiii) 
a
bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
 
(xiv) 
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which: 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
(A) 
if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be 
disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next 
lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and 
 
(B) 
if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of 
the Association. 
 
(xv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (i) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight weeks, and (ii) for all 
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period; 
 
(xvi) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; and 
 
(xvii) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Furniture, office equipment, stationary, textbooks, learning and other reference 
materials and construction materials estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods financed under Innovation Grants, and costing $8,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost $700,000 equivalent 
or more; (ii) each of the first two contracts for works estimated to cost less than $700,000 
equivalent each; (iii) each contract for furniture estimated to cost $125,000 equivalent or 
more; (iv) each of the first two contracts for furniture estimated to cost less than $125,000 
equivalent each; (v) each contract for computers, books and construction materials 
estimated to cost $125,000 equivalent or more, and (vi) each of the first two contracts for 
office
 
equipment, stationary, reference materials and construction materials estimated to 
cost less than $125,000 equivalent each, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for the carrying out of the studies required under Part 
C.3(b) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Part C:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the provision of a local area network (LAN) under Part C.2(a) of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Least Cost Selection
Services for the preparation of architectural drawings and documents for the 
purposes of Parts A.2, B.4 and C.2(a) of the Project, which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for employment of consulting 
firms/institutions irrespective of value; and (ii) each subsequent such contract estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants irrespective of the value; and (ii) each subsequent such contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval. The contracts shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, maintain the Project 
Implementation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with said Plan. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Plan if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of 
the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that a financial management specialist and a 
procurement specialist, both suitably qualified and experienced and acceptable to the 
Association, will be assigned to the Project throughout its execution. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that its MoLHR and MoE will collaborate on carrying 
out the tracer study and employer/establishment surveys required for the purposes of Part 
C.3(b) of the Project, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association set out in a 
memorandum of understanding to be entered into between MoLHR and MoE not later 
than October 31, 2003. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and other measures set forth in the Environmental 
Management Plan in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedule 
and other provisions set forth therein, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such implementation. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, throughout the execution of the Project, local 
communities benefiting under the Project will continue to be duly consulted in 
accordance with the Peoples Consultation Plan. 
 
6.  
The Borrower shall ensure that Innovation Grants shall be made to the 
Beneficiaries in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, under guidelines 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
7. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2006, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
Page  21
-
20
-
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by October 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) with respect to Special Account 
A, Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3) and (4); and (ii) with respect to Special Account B, 
Categories (1)(a), (2)(a) and (5), all set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required and Innovation Grants provided for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (i) with respect to Special 
Account A, an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 1,700,000; and (ii) with respect to Special Account B, an amount equivalent to 
$25,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the respective Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall 
be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts that do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested. 
Page  23
-
22
-
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to that provision in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
respective eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the respective Authorized Allocation.  
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the such eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for the respective eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for the 
respective eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
