Dans"MADof
T'he World ank
FOR OFMCIAL USE ONW
Rbpt No. 12312
PROJECT COMPLEON REORT
EAGDESH
THIRD POPULATION AND FAMY IIYHALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1649-BD)
SEPTEMBER 14 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12312
Type: PCR
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution aod may be used by recipients only in the prformane of
their official dutes. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World BSk authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANLADESH
*WIRD POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1649-BD1
ABBREVIATIONS
BPDU      -    Buildings Planning and Development Unit
CBR       -    Crude Birth Rate
CDR       -    Crude Death Rate
CMC       -    Construction Management Cell
CPR       -    Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
EPI       -    Expanded Program of Immunization
FP        -    Family Planning
FPCST     -    Faamily Planning and Clinical Supervision Teams
FPHP      -    Fourth Population and Health Project
FWA       -    Family Welfare Assistant
FWV       -    Family Welfare Visitor
FWVTI     -    Family Welfare Visitor Training Institute
GNP       -    Gross National Product
COB       -    Government of Bangladesh
HEB       -    Health Education Bureau
_EC       -    Information, Education and Communication
ZEN       -    Information, Education and Motivation
IMR       -    Infant Mortality Rate
IUD       -    Intra-Uterine Device
MCH       -    Maternal and Child Health
mCWC      -    Maternal and Child Welfare Center
MDU       -    Management Development Unit
MIS       -    Management Information System
MMR       -    Maternal Mortality Rate
HOHFW     -    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MOHPC     -    Ministry of Health and Population Control
NGO       -    Non-Governmental Organization
NIPORT    -    National Institute for Population Research and Training
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PFC       -    Project Finance Cell
PPO       -    Population Project Office
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
SFWV      -    Senior Family Welfare Visitor
TBA       -    Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR       -    Total Fertility Rate
TFYP      -    Third Five Year Plan
THC       -    Thana Health Complex
UHFWC     -    Union Health and Family Welfare Center
Fiscal Year (FY)
July 1 - June 30
Currency Eaulvalents
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
Crore Taka = 10 million Taka
Lakh Taka = 100,000 Taka
US$1 = Tk 26.5
(December, 1985)
US$1 = Tk 39
(December, 1992)



BRg  I    }X|!""i',Z ' .-                         ii
g~i Xgg t lt |I 



FMa oriUCaL USE (X4LY
-M-2
T~hR=  POPULATO AN2 PnIl?RAT  U3O
EVALUaTION SUMmARY  .*      . . . . * * . . * . * . * * * . * . * . *  .   lil
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW PROM BSM'S PURSPICTIVI  . . . . . . . . . . . . *   1
A.  Project IdentLty  . . . . . .   . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
S.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . ..  . ..  .. .. . ...  . ... . .  .   1
C.  Project Objectives and Description  * . . * . . . . . . .  . .   2
D.  Project Design and Organixation . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..*   .   3
F.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
P.  ProJect Results . . . .... ..............................       8     
0. Sustainability  . . . . . . .          .         . . . . a  .    9
H. Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - . . .  11
I. Borrower's Performance. . . * . . . . . a   * . . * . . . * . . .  12
J.  Projeot relationship  . . . . .. .... .. ........   12
R.  Consulting services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
L.  Project documentation and data  .     ...............    13
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FRO4 BORROWER'8 PERSPECTIVE * * . * * . . . * . .  14
PART IlIls TATISTICRL INFORMATION..    * .,....  *                *..   18
Table 1.  Related IDA Credtts              . ..   ...............        19
Table 2.  Project Time-table  . .............                            20
Table 3. Credit Disbursements  .................     21
Table 4.  Project Implementation  *9999  .       ... 9           99 22
Table SA. Detailed Project Costs- by Components  ...........             31
Table 53. Detailed Project Costs - by Expenditure Cateories  . . . . . .  32
Tabl  5C. Project FLnancing   cing................                       33
Table 6A. Direct enotefesit. ..                                         34
Table 61. Studies    . . . . . . . .                                     35
Table 7.  Status of Covenants       ...                                  37
Table SA. Use of Bank Resources   ........ .... ......... 38
Table 8B. Xissions    . . . .                                            3 9 .  * 9  39
Table 9. Procurement .     9. .9.9..............   * 9 9 *  9       9    42
Annex 1. Appralsal budget by component           ........   45
Annex 2. Disbursements by Source of financing                        .   46
Annex 3  Trends in exchange rates between donor currencies anW  8 dollar  47
Annex 4. Trends in Total Fertility Rate in  ngladeah     .    * . . .    48
Annex 5. Contraceptive use among currently married women . . . .      .49
Annex 6. Family Planning inputs and outputs  .* .    .. . . ..  .        50
Annex 7. An Estimation of Number of Births Averted. . . . . . .          5 . . .  51
This docutent has a resuictd distributla and my be used by re-i---saw ly Iatds Psdtahas
of their oflcia dutiL Its c1tnt my t otwwis be dhludW.Ithu WON Bak aulhedmL



lHa  LPaON AND FAMTLY RAIE 
iCRHDIT 1649-13D
nmN
!his ia the Project Completion Report (MCR) for the Third Population and Family
Health Projeot in Bangladesh, for which CredLit 1649-3D in the amount of U8 $78.0
Lllion (equivalent to 75.4 million SDRs) was approved on January 14, 1986. Th
areit was closed on June 30, 1992, six months behind schedule. Disbursiemets
totalled 1$S 100.9 m$ilLon (129.3% of the amount estimated ln the Staff Appraisal
Report).  The last disbursements were made on December 23, 1992.
The VCR was jointly peared by the PopulatLon and Human Resources Division of
Country De parment I, South Asia RegLon (Preface, Uvaluation Suinary, Parts S and
XXI and th Annexcs) and the Borrower (Part XX).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the flnal 1DA supervision mission in
April, 1992, and is based, Lnter alLa, on the Staff Appraisal Report (BAR), the
Developoent Credit Agreement, supervision reports; correspondene betwen the
Bank and the Borrowers and internal Dank memoranda.
The co-financiers particLpated in supervisLon missLons, the supervision reports
have been shared with them on a regular basie and their views have been taken
account of in preparing this report. Their comments on this report have ben
considered in its finalLation.



$ii
BSIMH'
THID2 PPJAION AnD FAMILY HEALT  PROJCT
iec iT 1"9-=RD
(L) ,Prpiect Obiectives
The major objective was to assist the Governnent of Bangladesh ((018) to
achieve the fertility, infant and maternal mortality reductlon goals oS its Third
Five Year Plan. The corollary objectiveo wore: to maintain program momentum by
stimulating additional demand for family planning, and to help strengthen the
infrastructure for baeLc rural healtk servLces.
(LL) Imolementation expe,rinc
After an initLal slow start, impl emntatLon was generally satisfactory,
exceeding appraisal estimates in several instances, but laggLng in the areas of
clinical contraceptive servlces and their quality, procurement of goods and
maLntenance works. Reasons for the few areas of implementation shortfall have
been identified and serious endeavors are being made to address them ln the
Fourth PopulatLon and Health Project (FPHP).
The credlt was closed slx months later than planned, to accommodate the
additional actlvlties provlded for by the Project amendment made in 1989
conseqouent upon a mld-term review and to ensure contlnuity of program actlvities
whlle waiting for PPHP to commence. The final disbursements in US dollar terms
wore exceptionally good, exceedlng appraLial estimates by 27.8% in the case of
the IDA credit and absorbing nearly all the co-financed grants from the bilateral
donors as well. Thus the project absorbed almost all the planned external
assLitance, includlng the considerably larger amount of funds accruLng from the
depreciation of the Us dollar against SDR and donor currencies.
(iLL) Results
The Project achieved its stated objectlves of fertility reduction (Total
Fertility Rate fell from about 5.8 to about 4.5), but the objectives of mortality
reduction were only partly achieved (Infant Mortality Rate dropped from 132 to
110 per 1,000 live-births, whlle Maternal Mortality Rate changed little from 6
to 5.7 per 1,000 live-births). The fertility decline in Bangladesh in the face
of very constrained social, economic and health situations, is remarkable and the
contributlon of the Project to this fertility decline was substantial and
undeniable. Most of the fertillty decline is directly attributable to increased
contraceptive use (from about 25% to about 40%), whlch in turn is largely the
result of concerted efforts to make FP/*CH services, Including information,
education and communication (INC), evailable to and accessible by the community.
(lv)  5ukaLnakkl.t&
While the continued dependence of GOB on external assistance for its PP/MCO
program raises questions of sustainablilty, there are clear indlcations of GOBas
determination to sustain and expand the program and Lncreasingly absorb the
recurrent costs from its own resources   GOB*s contribution to the successlve
population projects funded by the Bank has increased from around 10-12% in the
first two projects to 17% in this Project and further to 27.5% ln FPHP. Lastly,
long-term sustalnablity of fertility control efforts can only be truly assured
when the people take their own responsibility for their reproductive behaviors



iv
and purchase contraceptive services frm the private sector, rather than expect
fe"e services from the Goverment.
(v) 
The most valuable lessons frm the Project vet a) the          tance of a
strong Government coMIitment and political will b) the need for a participatory
Government-donor approach to project formulation within the broader context of
national strategic and program goals; c) the banefits of good donor coordination,
taking the form of a "consortium approach" with effective leadership provided by
the uank, d) the necessity for bureaucratic flexibility and ingenuity lin solving
probems of complex projects as well as the wllingne  to review and amend the
project half-way through Its life, if the sitution warrants; e) the requirement
for more than the usual Bank norm of staff time allocated for effective project
supervisiont f) the value of a strong IDA presence ln the fields g) the
importance of sufficient planning, better management practices, improved quality
of service, adequate training and increased mobility of workers and effective
supervision at the field level; h) the need for better intra-sectoral and inter-
sectoral coordination in order to avoid duplication of efforts and ensure
complementarity; and 1) the clear indication that fertility declines could be
achieved even in the face of poor socioeconomic conditions.



PR;C0 Qf4pLETION RP 
BANGLADESH
THIRD PO'UL1TION AND FAMILY MMLTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1649-B21
PART 1: PRQJECT REVIEW FROM MAN'S PERSPECTIVE
a.   Pwet!eta
Project Name s   Third Population and Family Health Project
Credit No.   *    1649-BD
RVP Unit     I   South Asia
Country      s   Bangladesh
Sector       X    Popuiation and Human Resources
Sub-sector   I   Population and Health
1.        The Third Population and Family Health Project (the Project) was begun
in Bangladesh in 1986 against the backdrop of a grim demographic situation that
had caught the serious attention of both the Governmerst and the international aid
agencies involved ln that country's development efforts.  With a population of
around 96 million growing at an annual rate of 2.6%, a population density of 699
per square kilometer and a total fertility rate (TPR) of 5.81, the gravity of
the situation was obvious. This became even more alarming when one considered
economic indicators such as Gross National Product (GNP) which was $130 per
capita. Population projections, irrespective of the method used, painted a bleak
scenario. The Government, supported by a number of international donors and the
Bank (through two population projects before this one), had developed a national
program of population control, subsequently renamed Family Planning (FP) program.
The program, aimed at reducing fertility mainly by increasing the use of modern
contraceptive methods, took the form of a concerted effort, primarily directed
at establishing an extensive network of facilities which provide VP and related
services including maternal and child health (NCH) care as close to the people
as possible, promoting the use of these facilities by raising the people's
awareness of fertility issues and modern contraceptive methods and providing the
necessary technical, managerial and material support required to maintain mLnimam
acceptable levels of quality of the services.   Replacement level fertility
emerged as a sectoral goal, though the time in which to attain it has been
repeatedly reviewed and revised; at the beginning of the Project, the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) set the year 2000 as the target date.
2.        The policies and strategies adopted to reach the sectoral goals
evolved, as the program was progressively implemented through successive Five
Year Development Plans. The basic approach has been to meet unmet demand for VP
services, with IEC activities and specific efforts to develop the womenIs status
helping create additional demand. Although the first two five-year plans did not
achieve the ambitious demographic targets set for them, they did move the
relevant indicators in the right direction, e.g., raising the contraceptive
prevalence rate (CPR) from 7.7% to around 25% and lowering TFR from around 7 to
5.8 in the period between 1975 and 1985.  Perhaps more significantly, they
brought to light important problems such as: Lnefficient management, weak KCH
care services vital to child survival, insufficient focus on quality of FP
services, a low density of female field workers, inadequate training and
supervision capacity and coordination problems arising from the structure of the
Staff Appraisal Report.  Bangladesh Third Population and Family
Health Project. World Bank Report No. 5485-BD, December 24, 1985.



2
sectoral Ministry, which was bifurcated into a health wing and a population
control wing (later reramed VP wing).
3.        In the Third Five Year Plan  (TFYP), GOB sought to remove tho
weaknesses in the population program, by emphasising the interdependence between
reduced fertility and increased child survival.  A major outreach effort was
planned in three areas of MCH Interventions a) reduction of diarrheal deatbe
through oral rehydration therapys b) expanded program of immunieation (BPI) of
children under two years and pregnant women; and c) training of traditional birth
attendants (TSAs) in safe delivery practices. The basic strategy to ixcrease the
availability of rP services remaiped, but improvement of their quality was also
accorded a priorLty.
4.        It was  .n the context of and as a major part of the national PP
program that IDA and several bilateral donors have supported four population
projefts, including the current Fourth Population and Health Project (FPHP). To
ensure the relevance of these projects to the national se¢toral goals and
policies, project formulation was increasingly used as an opportunity to conduct
extensive discussions between the Government and the external aid agencies about
sectoral priorities, policies, programs and goals. The fact that these projects
have pooled the resources of various denors along with those of IDA, thus
constituting the bulk of all investments in the sector, enhanced their
significance in the overall policy dialogue with the Government. The first and
second projects, laid the foundatior for the third, -which was a natural
continuation with a view to consolidating earlier gains, expanding zhe scope and
coverage of the program and incorporating lessons learnt. Thus, the policies of
TFYP including those calling for a strengthening of NCH care services, were also
reflected in the Project. Annex 1 shows the costs of the first three projects,
broken down by the type of activities and source of funds. The costs have
doubled from one project to the next, indicating the level of priority given to
the problem by both GOB and the external development assistance agencies,
Including the Bank.
c.    Prolect Obiectives and Descr4ntgon
5.        Proiect Obiectiyes.  The major objective of the Project was to assist
0O8 to achieve the fertility, infant and maternal mortality reduction goals of
TFYP. These goals, to be reached by 1990 were: to raise the CPR from 24-26% to
38-40%, with an expected 17% decline in TFl from 5.8 to 4.8 and to reduce crude
birth rate (CBR) from about 39 to 32 per 1,000 population, infant mortality rate
(11() from 132 to 100 and maternal mortality rate (MMR) from around 6 to 4 per
1,000 live-births. Corollary objectives weres to maintain program momentum by
stimulating additional demand for family planning, and to help strengthen the
infrastructure for basic rural health services.
6.        Proiect pescriDtion.  The Project had seven components:
(a)  Family Planning/MCH Service  pelivery Consolidtion antd Ninanion
included: (i) strengthening the management and supervision system;
(ii) in-service training of staff at district, Thana (subdistrict,
earlier known as Thana) union and ward levels, including new cadrb;
of Senior Family Welfare Visitors (SFWV*), Family Welfare Assistants
(FWAs) through development of National Institute for Population
Research and Training (NIPORT)i (iiI) financing of salaries of 10,000
additional and 4,500 continuing eAs; (d) supply of materials and MOC-
related drugs to all Thana Health Complexes (THCs), Maternal and Child
Welfare Centers (MCWCs), and Union Health and Family Welfare Centers
(UHFWCs); (e) supply of medical and surgical requisites for clinical
forms of contraception; and (f) construction and equipping of 1,000
additional UHFWCs, upgrading of 738 rural dlspensaries and the costs
of the Construction Management Cell (CMC).



3
(b) Maternal and Child Health Proorams provided for the development and
integration of a national MCH program into the FP delivery system.
(o)  rommu wgr2ns gmy"  used mass medla and lnterpersonal approaches
to promote two-chLld norm, and included training of extension workers
and communty leaders, support to non-governmental organisations
(EGOs), production of audiovLiual material and campaigns promoting
acceptance of immunization and dlarrhea management programs.
(d)  Mo=mns Proaram  attempted to strengthen women' s lncome generation
through women's cooperatives in 100 thanas, MothersI Centirs in ln80
thanas and Women's Vocational Training Programs in 30 thanas.
(C) sumnorftto Non-Government Oraanizationg and Innovative Programs laid
partLcular emphasls on (i) expansion of NGOs' servlce delivery role
Ln rural areast (i£) health financing studies; (iiL) epidemiological
survey; and (Lv) preparation of the fourth phase of the natLonal
populatLon/NCH program.
(f) Research and Evaluation provided contlnued support to the Management
Information System (MIS) and External Evaluation Unit, (later renamed
the Population Development Evaluation Unit) including special studies.
(g) Prolect manaoement SuMOOrt whlch financed costs to project-related
adminLstrative groups, Pro4ect Finance Cell (PFC), Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare (MOHFW) Procurement Unit, and Population Program
Office (PPO) to strengthen implementation capacity.
a.   Proiect Desian and Oraniuzation
7.        The conceptual foundation of the Project was clearly developed froD
the experience of the first two projects as perceived by GoB and donors alike.
The decision to continue the strategy of FP service provision, with the new
emphasis on ICa care and a focus on management and quality issues, determined to
a large extent, the design of the Project, which was essentially oriented to
enhancing outreach efforts at the grass-root level, with support structures at
the intermedlate and central levels for training, supervision and management.
Certain parts of the project, especially those related to IEC and the women's
programs had an inter-sectoral design.
8.        Another factor that influenced project design was its complexity, due
to its multi-sectoral nature and to the presence of multiple financiers, namely,
GOB, the Bank and six co-financiers. The project was designed to incorporate
most of the donors' assistance to the GOB's FP and health program and the
importance of a 60B-donor dialogue was recognized, leading to what has come to
be known as the "consortium approach". The consortium approach evolved over
time, to lnclude donor agencies active in the sector, even if they were not
financing the project, in consultations about broader policy and program issues.
While such cooperation among donors cannot be said to have reached an ideal
situation, it is probably greater in Bangladesh than in most other countries, as
far as the population sector is concerned. The success of a consortium approach
in Bangladesh is primarily attributable to: a) a sincere and honest attempt on
the part of all the parties to work towards the common good of Bangladesh; b) a
realization of the benefits it could bring to the donors: saving resources for
each donor for monitoring the project, avoiding duplication and conflict of
interests, combining grant funds with IDA credit allowing greater flexibility in
2    Originally called the Ministry of Health and Population Control
(MOHPC), subsequently renamed as Ministry of Health and Family
Planning (MOHFP) and then given its current name.



4
project planing: c) active participation of Government in the Consortium, based
on a recognition of the advantages to the Coverment as wells minimising GOB' 
aid       nt burden (e.g., datically reduce  number of supervisin misslon.
to prepare        reducing donor competition in the sector and promoting a
coheret setoral p ?olcy: and d) an effective leadership provlded by the Banc,
in an informal atmosphere facilitating frank dlocussion of issues leading to
eonsu  solutions.
9.        The cratLion of an open-ended winnovativ  activities fund" was a
noteworthy feature of the project design. This provided the flexibility dended
to finance activities not foroseen at the time of project formulation.
Similarly, support to EGOs' cotivities was amenable to open proauming as it was
financed by a direct mchanism through a separate local coordinating officv,
which screened the individual Ms0 for funding and monitored their actLvlties.
10.       Given the magnitude and complexity of the problem which the Project
sought to address, its size, with 23 sub-components, was justified. In fact, the
project absorbed almost 115 of the estimated costs in US dollar terms* thus
suggesting that the original estimates were not too large, though they neded
some adjustments during tha mid-term review.
II.       The Project was well-prepared in the context of TFYP and the national
sectoral goals, and tlmed appropriately to follow the Second Population Project.
The long preparation time and initial GOB delays in meeting the conditions of
credit effectiveness led to slippage in starting the project, but by and large,
the Project activities were implemented as a part of TPYP.
12.       The Project clearly specified the responsibilities for its activitLes.
NOHFW (then called No10C) was responsible for management of service delivery
activities, including training. The office of the Director-General, VP (then
called Population Control) was primarily responsible for the implementation of
most project activities. The exceptions were certain specific NCR interventions
such as BPI and oral rehydration program, including the production of oral
rehydration salts, which were the under the health directorate, as was the Health
Xducation Bureau (HEB); mass media activities, carried out by the Ministry of
Information and uroadcasting; the women s programs, divided between the Ministry
of Womens Affairs, the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development and
the Ministry of Social Welfare and ROo activities. Arrangements were made for
the United Nations Population Fund, the World Health Organization and the United
nations Children's Fund to provide support to GOB in areas such as international
procurement, technical assistance, etc. Project supervision was done by the
Consortium through Missions twice a year. MCR activities of the health and VP
directoratee were to be coordinated by a committee, which was so delayed in its
establishment that it has just begun to function, in time for PPHP. The Project
remained weak in establishing other coordination mechanisms, such as that between
the sectors responsible for the women's programs, between the Information,
Education and Motivation (IRK) Unit of the PP Directorate and HES, and between
GOB and NGO activities.
13.       The Project further developed the well-defined organizational set-up
under which it operated at the field level. About 2300 UHPWCs provide NCH/PP
services. The field functionaries like 4SOO Family Planning Assistants, 23,500
Family Welfare Assistants (FWAe), and 3,937 Family Welfare Visitors (PWs) were
responsible for motivational work besides NCR and PP service delivery. The
project was designed to strengthen field managemeut of the program from the
district level down. By strengthening management at the periphery, the project
design was also consistent with broader government plans to decentralize services
and a management structure less vulnerable to the disruptive impact of
organizational changes at the central level.
14.       The Project also provided for mechanisms for supporting activities,
e.g., the Management Development Unit (NDU) to strengthen GOB'a own management



Caaity especially at the field level; the Population Development Rvaluatioa
UnXt located in the Plannig Commission, to conduct evaluatlve studLes related
to the FP program; the Project Pinanc Co11 for the overall managent of project
ftinancing; th ClianLeal Contraceptlon Survelllance Teams, later renamed family
Planning Clinictl Supervision Teams (IPCS?) exocuted by WHO to primo  the
quaiLty of VP ClinLcal Servicesl the HIS; a Procurement Unit within MONIW wLth
the authorlty to procur directly Lnstead of ordering though the DLrectorate at
Supplies. The PopulatLon Project Office IPPO), which had been established at the
Dank'o ResLdent Midsion ln Dhaka, financed joLntly by the partLicpating donors,
continued to monitor project implementatLi.. locally, assist the oovernmont in
problem solving and to provide a mechanism to promote a cohesive, consistent
donor dlalogue wlth the 00G on the national FP and health programs. such a
substantLal and permanent prosence of the Bank and co-financiers at the toeld
level, whilo not an innovation, was certainly unusual and proved to be a r ry
useful &spect of the project design and organLzatLon. Care was taken to ensure
that the PPO played monitoring, supervising and facliltatlng roles rather than
actual LnplementatLon, whlch was left to GOB.
15.       Speoific deslgn aspects which contributed most to the success of the
project weres a focus on improving the supply of FP/MCH servLces through greater
outreach, greatly enhancing the worker/client ratio; specifLcally, the
Lntroduction of satellite clLnics as an effLcLent mechanism of brlngLng servlces
closer to the communLtyl strengthening the training capacity ln the sector
through a clear lnetltutlonal base (NIPORT)  improved supervisLon and management
structures; the consortium approach to fLnancing, project formulation and
monitoring; the design flexibility permitting a mad-term reallocation of
resources to meet the alteed commodlty requirements due to the cnanged
contraceptlve method-mix and the exigencies of floods which damaged the field
level facilities; and the allocation of considerable human resources on the part
of the Consortium at the field level through the PPO.
16.       Retrospectively, several deficLencies in project design are also
apparent:  (a) the bifurcated structure of the PP-health sector, leading to
difficulties of coordLnation between staff of PP and health directorates at the
grass-roots level, was not addressed effectively by the project design and thus
continues to be a problem; functional Lftegratation whlch was proposed as an
interim solution to this structural problem, has been difficult to achieve; (b)
Later-sectoral coordlnation related to the Project activities was not adequately
built into the project design; different sectoral ministrles implemented
different components of the project; the Natlonal Populatlon Control Council
which was vested with the coordlnatLon roles suffered from the lack of a
secretarLat; c) substantial recurrent costs such as salaries and essential
supplies continued to be fLnanced from the Project; a thorough analysis of the
sector from the point of vlew of long-tevm recurrent costs implications and
sustainability could have been carried out before the project began. A financLal
perspective of the sector was not available until the health finaneing study
whlch was conducted as a part of the project rather than as a preparatory step;
(d) the focus on provision of FP/MCH services possibly led to inadequate
attentLon to demand generation; but the results have been impressive, thus
leading to the conclusion that either there was enough unmet need to warrant this
strategy or the project could have been even more successful had it also
emphasized demand generation efforts; and (e) while the consortium approach
adopted in the project was exemplary, it could perhaps have been deslgned even
better, through a more complete pooling of resources towards commonly deflned
objectives, wLthout individual donors being identified with separate sub-
components.
17.      Many of the defLciencLes listed the preceding paragraph 16 are belng
addressed under FPUP.



6
3.        Project !molemeatatiom
18.       The Project activities were implemented as planned, except for the
following few variances:
(a)  Imglementation Schedule (Table 2).  the deviations from the originally
planned implementation schedule were not major. The credit closLng
date was extended from December 31, 1991 to June 30, 1992 for two
reasons: (i) Continuation of the Third Project actlvities until FPNP
became effective to avoid disruptions to the programa (ii) additional
activities programmed into the Project during its amendment in 1989
needed more time for completion.
(b)  Project costs.   The depreciation of the US dollar in relation to the
SDR and other donor currencies and lower than antiLipated costs of
medical supplies and reduced demand for surgical requisites, led to
substantial cost savings. Following a mid-term review of the Project,
these were reallocated to new procurement of contraceptives,
construction and repairs of facilities, including those affected by
floods, in line with an amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
approved by the Board in December, 1989. The final total project cost
stands at US$246.3 million against an appraisal estimate of US$213.8
million (Table SA and SB). While these variances were significant,
the revision of the Project resulted in better utilization of funds
and increased implementation of activities.
(c)  Implementation.   Following  initial delays  as reflected by the
disbursement  profile  (Table  3),  project  implementation  wa
satisfactory.   Table 4  shows a detailed  comparison  of actual
achievements with the targets set at the time of project appraisal.
In most cases, the targets were reached or even exceeded. The few
specific cases of variances are:
(i) performance of aterilizations and intra-uterine device (IUD)
insertions below planned levels, causing a concern about the
method-mix;
(ii) some shortfalls in planned procurement, e.g., bicycles;
(iii) somewhat lower implementation levels by the IEM Unit and HEB,
compared with their respective targets and more importantly, even
where their physical targets have been achieved, the lack of a
comprehensive FP/MCH IEC strategy, formative research and
insufficient use of private sector in the face of poor in-house
capacity to produce high quality IEC material has raised
questions about the appropriateness of the messages being
disseminated and the aualk%v of the IEC efforts;
(iv) non-achievement of a few training targets, especially for TRAs;
19.       The causes of the above few imulementation shortfalls weres
(a)  Oualitv of clinical contraceptive services.  Despite the activities
of FPCST, which was specifically intended to address it, poor quality
of services continues to hamper clinical contraceptive performance.
Improvements in quality and management practioes are an absolute pre-
requisite for this part of the program to regain momentum.  The
establishment of a national system of quality assurance is an urgent
need in this regard. FPCST appears to have been ineffective so far
in accomplishing this in spite of WHO being Its executing agency.



7
(b)  Inadeauate immortanc to method-mix i2Lue.  There is a perception in
some quarters of 0 that achieving a hlgh CPR is all that counts and
the method-mix which contributes to the CPR is not so important.
Clinical methods ar mor pmanent, safer and cheaper; moreover, if
they were to be replaced by short-term methods like pills and condoms
their use would have to grow unrelistically in order for them to be
able to compensate for losses from sterilizations and IUDs.  The
effect of these losses an CPR will not be apparent untLi o ,rilized
couples leave the reproductive pool and then the program m antum to
replace these contraceptors by new cases of sterilizations would be
difficult to build.  Tbk  other issue concerning method-mix is the
conelderation of traditional methods of contraception versus the
modern methods. While the Increase in the use of traditional methods
(22% of CPR currently, as compared to 11% at the beginning of the
Project) might indicate progress in terms of a greater acceptance of
the idea of regulating one's fortllity, by taking control of one's own
decisions in this regard, both the reliability of data on traditional
methods and the methods' effectiveness are questionable.  A more
careful consideration of method-mix would be very important for
sustained fertility reduction at an affordable cost.
(a) Most of the other shortfalls, were attributable to general systemic
weaknesses rather than deficiencies in project implementation. some
examples of these are: i) delays in fund release which were later
resolved; Li) weak inter-sectoral coordination; Iii) weak coordination
between the FP and Health Directorates, leading to field-level
problems; iv) weak personnel management, as reflected by under-
staff ing and frequent transfers of senior staff, often away from their
fields of expertise; v) lack of a procurement plan and Inadequate
local procurement capacity; vi) disruptions in training plans
implementation of unplanned training courses; vii) weak field-level
supervision; viii) inadequate emphasis on maintenance and upkeep of
buildings; xi) poor coordination between NG0 operations and GOB
activities.
20.       The project risks were identified and realistically assessed at the
time of formulation. The decision to maintain a PPO to monitor and address day-
to-day implementation issues was a result of the recognition of the risks   The
effeet of pro-active project supervision carried out by PPO on a daily basis (in
addition to GOD's own concerted efforts and the monitoring inputs from all
development partners), was clear from the fact that project implementation was
satisfactory and most of the appraisal targets were reached in spite of the
systemic problems listed in the previous paragraph.
21.       specific decisions which affected the project implementation, in a
positive sense were: to introduce a new emphasis on MCH; to continue the strategy
of enhancing service provision to raise the CPR; to recruit and train new FWAs
and to finance their salaries from the Project; to introduce FWA registers in the
field; to carry out a study of compensation payments and referral fees in respect
of sterilizations and to change the policy of such payments subsequently; to
raise the ceiling of allocation to the Special Account from SDR 4 to 9 million;
to conduct a mid-term review and amend the Project according to changed needs;
and to introduce a six-monthly Reprogra ming and Rebudgeting exercise.
22.       on the other hand, examples of decisions not taken which had an effect
on implementation were: not reaching firmer agreements with GOB (say, in the form
of covenants) on establishing a coordination mechanism for MCH activities between
FP and health directorates; not making a project procurement plan; not seeking
an integrated FP/MCH IEC strategy; not deciding on recruitment of female health
assistants earlier; not insisting on clear and prompt action on procurement of
bicycles, when this was clearly not progressing. These decisions have now been
taken and are expected to be implemented as part of FPHP.



23.       The Project achieved its specified objectives of fertility reduction.
The results in term  of mortality reduction were less impressive. The Project' a
objectives did not chango during its life.
24.       Contraceptive use as Lndtcated by CPR, has rLsen from 25.3% ln 1985-86
to around 40% in 1991.  Annex S shows the results from two sets of national
aurveys, Bangladesh Fertillty Surveys and Contraceptive Prevalence Surveys. The
rise in the CPR has contributed to a downward trend in the demographi¶
parameters, e.g., TFR of around 4.5 and a birth rate of 33.7/1,000 in 1991,
compared to S.8 and 39/1,000 respectively, ln 198S/86. The estimated number of
births prevented by contlnued strengthening of the family program during the
project period to 3.3 million (Annex 7). While all the changes ln contraception
and fertility may not be attributable to the Project, its contribution to them
cannot be denled, since it accounts for almost two-thirds of the national FP
program. it Is remarkable that the fertillty decllne has occurred desplte little
change ln the socioeconomlc sLtuation, and a Bank-funded sector study has
confirmed the changes as belng genulne and largely attributable to concerted
program efforts to ensure a supply of FP services which met the demand for such
servicesS. Annex 6 shows the growth in facilltles and staff and the trends in
serviees rendered.
25.       The infant and maternal mortality rates have not declLned to expected
levels. Infant mortalLty rate dropped from 132 ln 1985-86 to about 110 (against
a target of 100) per 1,000 live-births in 1991 and maternal mortality rate did
not show a significant decline, remaining high at 5.7 (agaList a target of 4) in
1991 compared to 6 in 1985 per 1,000 live-births. Most of the declines in infant
mortality is attributable to the remarkable performance by ZPI, which has raised
the proportion of target children who have been fully immunLzed to 65% from a
level of around 2%  rhen the Project began and to the control of diarrhoeal
deaths, whlIle the under-achlevement in mortality reduction could be partly
attributed to the operational problems outlined in section 19. (c). The mortality
targets were probably too optimistic, considerLng the relatively lower level of
emphasLi placed on this aspect under this project.
26.       The achievements on the fertility front, without a similar impact on
infant and maternal mortality, raise questions about the presumed link between
child survlval and fertility choices. While the strategy of emphaszling MCH care
seems to have paid off in terms of increasing the efficiency of FP/MCH outreach
services, results would seem to indicate that fertility decline can precede
mortality decline . A possible hypothesis is that, had the Project been more
effective in reducLng child mortality, fertllity reductlons would have been even
greater; lt could now be argued that having raised the CPR to about 40%, further
advances in contraceptlve use would be dependent on additional demand creation,
which would be lnfluenced more by chlId survival as well as general socioeconomic
development, Lncluding women's status in the society. Evidence in support of
World Banks The Determinants of Reproductive Change in Bangladesh,
South Asia Country Department 1, July 1992 (Draft.)
A Status Report on Bangladesh ThLrd and Fourth Populatlon and
Health Project for World Bank Review, October, 1992
£         World Bank: The Determinants of Reproductive Change in Bangladesh,
South Asla Country Department 1, July, 1992 (Draft.)



9
improving women'e status as a factor in fertility decline is readily available.
The CPR among women participating in the three programs under the Project ranged
from 54% to 60%, compared with the 40% among the general population. This
suggeats that improving women's status would be an important and essential
strategy for future progress in boostLng the CPR.
27.       While meaningful rates of return are nearly impossible to estimate for
a project of this nature, attempts have been made to estimate unit costs of
certain outcomes -for example, a study by Martin, et al.X estimates that each
birth averted through Bangladesh VP Program costed from $50 to $60. However,
robust comparative data on this aspect are not easily obtainable. Nonetheless,
the PP program's impact on the macro-economic situation, the social environment
and overall development of Bangladesh is undeniable. If no fertility declines
had occurred during this period, the growth in per capita food availabilLty would
have been less than what was actually obtained. Similar arguments could be made
about employment opportunities as well as almost any resource availability. The
Project was also directly responsible for thousands of jobs in the sector and has
resulted in clear improvements in GOB's capacity for management and training.
The success of this project is likely to have beneficial effects on other
sectoral projects in the country by its demonstrative value of what could be done
through a concerted effort. Project inputs like training and credit facilities
helped women earn some income Y.hich they otherwise would not have earned, thus
radisng their social standing. Project benefits accruing from slowing population
growth are likely to continue into the future, by altering the projected
population scenarios significantly.
28.       In addition to the fertility reduction achieved under the project and
its socioeconomic impact, the developmfent of a national infrastructure for the
provision of FP/MCH services is in itself a direct benefit of the project. The
number of THCs and UHPWCs constructed under the Project and the number of trained
workers added to the grass-root level (Annex 6) have significantly enhanced the
outreach of services to rural areas where they were earlier unavailable.
0*    u.a.inabil)t4
29.       With a considerable scope still remaining for increasing the CPR (to
about 60% from the current levels of about 40%), the issue of sustainability does
not only revolve around the level of benefits, but also around the issue of
whether the financial resources to maintain the program momentum would continue
to be available. With increasing acceptance and utilization of contraceptive
services coupled with the effects of population momentum, the costs of providing
them through the Government program absolutely free to the client are bound to
rise. Between 1990 and 1995 the numb?r of married women in the reproductive age
group is expected to increase by 17% . The future commodity requirements, and
therefore costs, will depend on the method-mix of contraceptive use prevailing
at that time, but one analysis projects that CPR will b1 around 50% by 1997 and
that the use of hormonal methods will increase by 78%*   Whereas longer-term
Quoted bys UNFPA (1990).  South Asia Study of Population Policy and
Programmess Bangladesh
World Bank: The Determinants of Reproductive Change in Bangladesh,
South Asia Country Department 1, July, 1992 (Draft.)
Kantner and A. Noor, "Population Dynamics in Bangladesh: current
demographic estimates and future prospects," Dhaka, U.S. Agency for
International Development, 1991.



10
methods like IUD and sterilizations are more cost-offective, current program
performance shows a declining trend ln those methods and an lnereaslng trend in
the use of pills and lnjectablee, wLth signlflcant recurrent cost implications.
Moreover, the strategy of providing services through a large cadre of outreach
workers, while very effectlve and crucial for program success, does entail
considerable recurrent costs as long as it is continued.
30.       G08 is heavily dependent on external assistance for its FP program and
wlth the serious cost impllcations mentioned afore, sustainabilLty of the Project
activities is a genulne concern. The Lsesue has been recelving the attention of
GOB as well as of the aid agencies and some steps have been taken in the right
direction. e.g., GOB's ashare of the project costs have increased from around 10-
11% ln the first two projects to about 17% ln thli project and about 27.5 in the
fourth project; a plan iL in place for G08 to increasingly absorb the costs of
FWA salaries over the next five years; O0B has also been absorbing-some of the
workers into lts revenue budget, showing its long-term commitment to the program.
The proportion of GOB's overall investments which are allocated to the sector has
been on the increase, from 4.9% in FY87 to 7.5% in FY91.
31.       It is unlikely that GOB can sustain a totally subsidized FP program
with its own resources for all times to come, without unduly skewing inveotments
in other competing sectors.   The key to long-term sustainability of the
Bangladesh FP program does not lie in presasing GOB to absorb all the costs of the
program from resources which simply do not exist. Rather, the solution would
depend ons  (a) an enhanced contribution of the local private sC"  (including
social marketing) to the program, with a concomitant development of people's
ownershLp of contraceptive responslbility which would reduce the need for
subsidy, and (b) successful promotion of longer-term, more cost-effectlve methods
in preference to the shorter-term ones through improved quality of services and
effective TEC efforts.  Both these approaches are feasible and the existing
climate is favorable to them.   By 1989, about 40 percent of the couples
practicing contraceptlon were already buying condoms and pills supplied through
subsLdized commercLal sales . Moreover, NGOs have always been a substantial
factor in the program. It is estimated that approximately 20 percent of all
modern method users are supplied by NGOs . Unfortunately, most of the NGOs
active in the sector are also dependent on foreign aid and therefore, unless the
NGOs develop their own local resources adequately, they cannot contribute
slgnificantly to long-term sustainability.
32.       The lisue of sustaLnability should also be vlewed from angles other
than financial. Assuming that funds will continue to be available, regardless
of their sources, lt is relevant to consider the question of whether the results
achieved so far are sustalnable. For example, are the Lmprovements in management
capacity and enhancements in FP service outreach here to stay and can future PP
programs go on to other aspects, e.g., lmproving quallty, without having to
rebuild the infrastructure because of its inability to last? With this view the
Consortium has been engaged in a serious dlalogue about reducing personnel
turnover in the sector, so as not to lose the trained expertioe, and emphasLiing
better maintenance of existing facilitles. Similarly, will the CPR slip back to
lower levels, or stagnate around 40% or grow more? One view is that since 50%
of women who want to avoid pregnancy are still not contracepting, there is still
a substantial unmet need and CPR could be raised by the provlsion of increased
services. However, increased service provision would not necessarily ensure
their utilizatlon unless accompanied by improved quality, and maintaining the
9         Mltra and Associates, "The Bangladesh Contraceptive Prevalence
Survey", 1990, Dhaka.
USAID Populatlon and Health Assistance - Briefing Paper, Dhaka,
1990.



11
growth of CPR does not merely call for sustaining the program, but broader
strategies are needed including more effective IEC action, women's development
and other inter-sectoral activities.
B.        Bank Pformanc
33.       Besides the usual role that the Bank plays in its projects, such as
assistance in project formulation, preparation, appraLsal and supervision, a
leading role was played in mobilizing funds, coordinating the consortium efforts,
buLlding consensus on various aspects of the Project as it moved along, and
conducting policy dialogues. This role of gonsortium leadershiD was perhaps the
most important aspect that sets this project apart from typical Bank projects and
it was made possible by the assignment of a substantial complement of staff in
Dhaka and in Washington to the project, working as a team on various aspecte,
including the complex accounting arrangements for the co-financiers and assisting
the government in the development of TFYP for the sector.   The special
organizational set-up called PPO, was financed joLntly by the co-Ainanciers and
the Bank. A recent study by the Operations Evaluation Department stateds "The
Bank's success in this sector derives not only from its capacity to marshall
resources, but also from its successful coordination and leadership".
34.       The Bank's performance during project preparation was adequate.
Building consensus among the various parties on *the basic concepts and
formulating the Project through dialogue was crucial. A total of almost 1,000
staff weeks (not including part of the staff time in Dhaka) were spent on the
project, with 70% of them being absorbed by supervision, which was continuous and
intensive (Table 8A). In addition to the day-to-day monitoring done by PPO,
supervision missions in close cooperation with the co-financiers were fielded
twice a year: once in the form of IDA-co-financier missions which provided an
opportunity for the staff of respective donor headquarters to review progress and
discuss issues, and once as IDA missions which consulted the local donor
representatives.   The success of the Project, in the face of very difficult
conditions adequately justifies the large staff input, especially on supervision,
the major share of which was paid for by co-financiers.
35.       Mechanisms Inhancina Flexibility.   The complexity of the project
called for exceptional ways to handle specific situations, at times warranting
ingenious ways to overcome bureaucratic hurdles. in one such example, cash flow
problem in respect of critical components of the project were resolved by moving
funds from one donor to cover activities financed by another. The establishment
of an "Innovative Project Fund" provided flexibility for research on service
quality, contraceptive innovations and other issues not anticipated in original
agreements. The decision to raise the ceiling on the Special Account million was
another example of flexibility that the Bank showed in view of the special
project needs.
36.       Keeping  track  of  various  co-financed  trust  funds  and  their
disbursement status was a major task in itself. rn response to requests from co-
financiers for regular and up-to-date information about the disbursement status
and future requirements of their respective funds a tool of "Reprogramming and
Rebudgeting" was devised.   This mechanism was very much appreciated by the
Consortium and led to a more rational financial planning, allowing constant
adjustments and ensuring smooth fund flows. It also helped avoid the recurrence
of a situation that was experienced in the previous project whereby a large pool
of unutilized funds had to be committed hastily during the final year of
implementation.
World Bank Report No. 9751. 'The World Bank and Bangladesh's
Population Program', Operations Evaluation Department, June, 1991.



12
37.       The meriving from the Project that ars relevant to the
Other Bank projoect  aes the need for flexibility, the importanco of good
supervision, the requirent of staff lnputs far mor than normally permitted by
the Dank guidelines, the value of pilot activlties externa to tho lending cycle,
and the benefits of well-coordiated co-finanings it should be noted that co-
financing of Dan projects doss extract a price in terms of demands on the Dank's
system but done appopriately with an optiml number of co-financiers, it could
be very rewarding. A lesson that is particularly relevant to operations in the
population sector is the indisputable evidence to the feasibility of successful
fertlity reduction even in the face of unfavourable socio-concmic conditions.
I0 *    u D Nwe's Performaace.
38.       OOB'a gom itment to addressing the country' population problem, a
indicated by the increasing allocation of its own lmited resources and by it
williagness to utilise foreign assistance and advice was perhaps the sigl  ost
crucial reason for the success of the Project as well an its PP program. After
initial delays, the borrower's implementation capacity improved, as did the
management practices and disbursement rates. The Government has progressively
increased its contrLbution to the project costs from 10-12% in the fLrat two
projects to 17% in this project. The priority that G08 attaches to the sector
is reflected in its Annual Development Program wherein the share of health & FP
allocations rose from 4.9% in 1986/87 to 7.5S% in 1990/91. Per capita public
expenditure on Aealth and FP rose by 19% per annum from USS1.10 in FY86 to
US$2.21 in FY90 . While problems with counterpart funding did occur from time
to time, by and large sufficient and prompt funding was provided to support
efficient project implementation.
39.       The Government was always responsive to the Consortium's suggestions
and viewe which were taken in earnest and all the review Missions were conducted
in a professional manner. The borrower' a performance in terms of compliance with
the covenants and the agreements reached during various Miselons has been very
satisfactory.
40.       The Project yielded signiflcant lessons to the borrower as well, in
terms of the need for adequate planning, especially for procurement which tend
to form a large part of the project expenditure, the importance of field level
supervision, the necessity to have adequately trained human resources, the value
of quality assurance for improved service utilisation and the place of good
overall management, includAing offective coordination both between GOB departments
and between GOB and NGOs.
Jo   PrKeiSt slKtBio.sh1i
41.       The relationships within the consortium in general and between the
Bank and the borrower in particular were extremely cordial. The local office of
FPO engaged the MORW officials in a continuous dialogue, assisting with day-to-
day problem-solving and providing a liaison between GOB and the local
representatives of the bilateral donor agencies. COB officlals appreciated the
decreased demand on their time due to the fact that the Project matters were
handled through the consortium avoiding the need to deal with many different
agencies individually. This was particularly evident with reference to the
number of Missions which had to be met by the Government, which was drastically
reduced due to the joint IDA-co-financiers review mechanism. An informal but
professional atmosphere prevailed at meetings, facilitating discussions tnd
relatively quick agreements on even difficult issues. The excellent rapport and
mutual understanding between Bank staff and GO8 was critical to the success of
World Bank Report No. 97S1. 'The World Bank and Bangladesh's
Populatton Progrnm', Operations Evaluation Department, June, 1991.



13
the Project, especially helpful in resolving sensitive questions like
"compensation payments" for sterilization acceptors and referral agents.
3.   Ckeaultin= services
42.       The Project used both local and international consultants, contractors
and suppliers for various activities. Procurement of all such services as well
as goods and civil works was done an per IDA guidelines. While the performance
varled between the consultants, contractors and suppliers, it was generally found
to be satisfactory.
K..   Pro4ect dogumen9ation an* data
43.       The legal agreements, the Staff Appraisal Report and other documents
related to the Project were generally adequate as.a framework for W0S, the Bank
and the co-financiers for Implementation and monitoring. Where any special needs
were identified, further documentation was prepared, e.g., the six-monthly report
on disbursement status, which was the result of the Reprogramming and Rebudgeting
exercise. COB prepared annual status reports sumarizing the progress with
respect to every sub-component, which formed the basis of discussions during
supervision missions. The aide-memoires submitted to GOB at the end of these
missions were helpful in highlighting issues of concern and in recording
decisions reached on how they could be addressed.   The documentation was
complemented by various other reports from consultancies, independent review
missions, surveys and studies, which were generally made available to the Bank
and the co-financiers.
44.       As for data for project monitoring, the MIS in the Directorate of P
and the various surveys provided the main sources, supplmented by empirical
observations during field visits. While supervision was generally effective,
monitoring could have been more structured, based on predetermined performance
indicators and targets, with an information system specifically designed to
collect the data required. Such a system existed for some components, e.g, BPI
and NIPORT; a more comprehensive monitoring system has been developed for FPHP.
45.       The information required for the preparation of this PCR was fairly
readily available, though some difficulties were experienced due to some files
having been misplaced apparently during the reorganization of the Bank in 1987.



14
THIN2 POPATION AND IUIIY MEALTH PROJEC
(CRIDIT  1649-l3D
PAR  III PSE       VIEW FROM BOR I' S   UES TV
The borrower as represented by the MLnistry of Health and Family Welfare
is pleased, after due consideration, to provide the following views and
information on Part-III and Part-Z of PCR.
1. ADEOUACY AND ACCURACY OF INFORMATION IN PART - IIS
All data/information provided in Part-UII appear to be adequate and
reasonably accurate.
2.   ANALYSIS CONTAINED IN PART-l
The analysis contained in Part-1 of PCR appears to be qualitative and sound
except in same instances whlch are noted below:
2,1   COMENT§ ON EVALUATION SUMMARY:
a.   At Pace 4ii. Para ii: Implementation experiences the remark -
"lagging in the areas of clinical contraceptive services and their
quality", is not wholly true. The correct position is - after the
compensation payment study the clinical contraception was
substantially de-emphasized with greater emphasis on "cafeteria
approach". Moreover, a study subsequently conducted on Client
Satisfaction with Sterilization Procedure" revealed causes of
decline. "The study suggested that the decrease in the number of
aterilization acceptors after mid-eighties, was not caused by
growing dissatisfaction among the already sterilized clients. There
were many reasons for decline in the number of sterilization like
fall in compensation payments, abolition of referral fees, shift of
emphasis from sterilization to other reversible methods, etc."
b.    On sustainability issue an important point needs to be mentioned for
long-term viability of the program, i.e., the local production of
contraceptives, so as to reduce dependence on off-shore procurement
which is time-consuming and somewhat uncertain.
c.    On lessons learnt (ara-v. Paae-iv):  The observation, "the clear
indication that fertility declines ...." would be more meaningful if
we add "upto certain level".
2.2  COMMENTS ONs PART-Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVEs
d.    At Paae 5. Para 14t the remark "such a substantial and permanent
presence of the Bank and co-financiers at the field level, while not
an innovation, was certainly unusual and proved to be a useful
aspect of project design and organization", may be slightly modifLed
and it may be added thats a negative aspect is the possibility of
the GOB'fs growing dependence on IDA & co-financiers for maintaining
a vast complement of field staff on permanent basis.



1i
*,   At ame 6 nder to% Iiu1PfmnAti4on. sub-nara it tli  an 134Unit and
. the remark recorded does not appear to be apprriate and lt
isight appeax to have understimated the usefulness and impact of XNC
activities  accomplished with  other donors  (USAID  and UWFPA)
"sistance. The national lBC activities are to be seen and evaluated
in its totality nd not partLally from the Third Population a Family
Health Project point of view. The Impact of IEM Unit's activities,
Radio, TV Population 0el etc. succeeded to create tremendous
awareness about PP. Any eligible couple is aware of at least one
method of contraception as it was revealed in several national
studies. The phrase "lack of a comprehensive PP-MCR IEC strategy
" may  be  replaced  as  follows:   the  need  to  forge  a
comprehensive PP-MCR strategy out of exlsting 1IEM & BEB strategies
has been strongly felt.'
f.   At Para 21. anecific degLsione/faet.e  were mentioned that affected
the project implementation in a positive sense, except one relating
to 'the study of compensation payments and referral fees in respect
of sterilization and to change the policy of such payments
subsequently', which affected the program as it appeared, In a
negative way. This decision caused decline in sterilization as it
was evident from subsequent study and GOB-AV8C evaluation (1992).
g.   At Para 25 (Paa. 8 with remoect to the remark - "while the under
achievement in mortality reduction could be partly attributed to the
operational problems outlined in section 19(c),' it may be noted
that investment under Third Population and Family Health Project for
mortality reduction program-efforts was not at all impressive,
rather it was inadequate to make an assessment of its impact.
h.   At Para 31 _PaE  101 the concluding remark, 'unfortunately
they cannot contribute .....,. about NGOs is generally in agreement
with COB views, but possibly NGOs are more dependent than GOB on
foreign aid. For example, a very big NGO namely, BAVS which used to
contribute 18-20% to sterilization performance, had to close down
and remained in a state of suspension for want of foreign aid.
3    EVALUATION OF THE RANK S P3flFORMA S
Part-I of the PCR adequately addressed the issue of BankIs performance. The
performance rating as described was good and COB agrees substantially to the
views recorded. However, a few points are mentioned as GOB observation.
a.   The initiative by PPO (at RHO Dhaka) and the leadership by IDA
Population Office at Washington, DC, provided through Missions to
Bangladesh was excellent and highly satisfactory.
b.   Although the BANK raised the issue of sustainability and initiated
discussions on long-term viability, time and again, yet it has not
succeeded  to   initiate   affordable  steps   towards  program
sustainability. The project appraisal, design and resource
allocation towards this end (sustainability) was lacking, though the
project succeeded to creating program thrust for a decline in
fertility despLte difficult conditions. One step forward to program
sustainability would have been caoacitv buildina for local
iroduction of contracentives, particularly a condom manufacturing
factory. Bank has provided US $ 32 5 million for import of
contraceptives after amendment of DCA to tide over the crisis
situation when grant money from co-financiers and bilateral donors
was wanting. Only 8-10 mllion US dollars would have been sufficient
to establish a condom factory with an annual production capacity of



16
160 million pieces of condom which can be easily absorbed by the
national FP Program. This was desirable.
c.    The Bank, through the 3rd project,  has facilitated to add a
complement of 10,000 (ten thousand) field workers (FWA) without
having a proper O&M (Organization & Management) study with long torm
perspectives. This vast number of (now 23,500) fleld staff and their
supervisors (Family planning Assistant, now Family Planning
Inspector) numbering 4S00 may heavily tax on the tax-payers in less
than a decade. The alternatives to full-time field workers have not
been adequately tried/tested, as yet.
d.    The role of the Bank in re-organizing the Health & Family Planning
Program in terms of integration-structural or functional, was not
impressive and aS such GOB position remained vulnerable to pressure
from conflicting group-interests and a varlety of views from
numerous donors. This has affected one way or the other, program
performance.
e.    Again, with the abolition of incentives and cash payment to the
referee (referral fee) and client's transportation cost etc. for
sterilization affecting performance, the role of some donors
including the Bank is now being subjected to question. The role of
Bank as coordinating agency/nodal point for development partners on
this issue was not effective.
f *   The project  didn't give adequate emphasis on  human resource
development (HRD) in health and population sector though several IDA
missions in their aide-memoires raised this issue from time to time.
Because of lack of emphasis on HPD, both Health and Populatlon
Sectors are/will be facing shortage of qualified and competent
program managers.
The main lessons learned from the 3rd project is that Health and Family
Planning Program must be reorganized based on study to be conducted by
independent national and international experts. Again, it is realized that
program sustainability will not solely depend on taking field staff to revenue
budget, but there are other important variables/interventions including
establishment of contraceptive manufacturing plant in the country. Also, the need
for a strong monitoring mechanism at the Ministry was strongly felt and action
to establish a Monitoring and Supervision Cell under the 4th Project has been
initiated.
Overall, Bank has successfully fulfilled its role through periodical
missions and professional presence at RMB in assisting the Government in the
implementation of the project.
4.   EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The PCR part-l has adequately covered the evaluation of the Borrower'
performance. GOB agrees to the remarks recorded in this part of the Report.
However, it must be admitted that GOB's built-in mechanism for proper evaluation
of project performance and also for review and analysis of the suggestions
received  from development partners  for effecting  changes during project
implementation period, was not very effective. The significant lesson learned was
that a strong monitoring, evaluation and supervision system is critically
important to achieve greater success in implementation.
S.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BANK AND BORROWER AND WITH CO-FINANCIjES:
The relationship between Bank and Borrower, between Borrower and co-
financiers and within consortium in general was very good and very cordial. There



17
always existed an atmosphere of coordination, understanding and mutual respect
between Bank, Co-financiers and G08. This has helped successful implementation
of the project. Examples are the amendment of OCA as well as the exerciee for
feprogram_ing and RebudgetLng (R*R) of project allocatlons that took place after
mutual consultation and consensus. such steps by the 8ank, Borrower and Co-
finanoLers made the project more effectlve and useful.
While OOD/Borrower and most of the Co-financLers were satLsfied wlth the
initLatlves taken by the Bank, a few Co-fiLancLers had thelr own style, approach
and inltLative in establishlng bi-lateral relationship with the government. such
relatlonship, for example, between GOB and GTZ (Germany) was also effectlve and
satisfactory.
7.    LESSONRS T.UAD
Overall, a few lessons learned might be called to attention for future
guidances
a.    Local procurement should be encouraged and the existing prlce
preference of 15% over international bids for locally produced goods
and materials should be raised to 20%. The plea that quality and
efficiency (timely supply, etc.) is not, in comparison, equal to
lnternational standard, and therefore, off-shore procurement though
time-consuming, be the preferred, does not hold good in order to
promote the sustainabllity of the program.
b.    Implementation of project activities and components would be easoer
and less complicated if full funding could be assured donor-wise to
specific component, like NIPORT which was fully funded by FRG (GTE).
Again, for drawing and disbursing project fund (Both Bank's loan
money and co-financLers grant money) one system like 8aXB/cONTASA
would make the Project Directors more efficient in financial
management and project implementation.
C.    A full-time Chief Coordinator from G0B side for the entire Project
would be very useful for effectlve coordination and liaison with the
development partners.



is
IOADRSH
iRD POPUATION AND .MILY "AM  PROET
(CREDIT 1649-SDb
PROJmCT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Ilt STATISTICL INFORMATION



JtlID-POPULTIOll"Dt Fgr Pt ROJECT
Table 1. Retated IDA Cdits
Credit  ub*er and        Year of                         Pirpose of Project                    status                           Cemnts
Project Title            Approval
Credit S33-D             1975            Increase the demand for and supply of NCH and         Cuopleted    Suceeded in creating ded for fily
Population and Family                    fan.ly pltming service. Assist the covo wnt            04/80        ptlming services through the   tivatifamt
Health Project I                         in training W0 and tamily plaming field workers,                    program and an inerease in CP8. Start up
estabtish pilot schenes for int oducing failfy                      project activities were detayed by ~ter a
life education, womens vocational training,                         year by delays in declaring the credit
strengthen the capacity of the mass media to deal                   effective, and further detays in fmtaslizing
with population topics.                                             dbnor comitsents.  The construction
caon ent sas fudtder dcolyed die to
technical, orgufizatfonsl, procedotad, and
contractual prablema. oCce completed,
difficulties were encosuitered in zking the
facilities operationat, largety due to design
and quatity control deficiencies.  Ouc to
delays in implementation, the project was
extended for three years &d closed In 1962.
The audit raised reservations about the
project design, complexity and size,                       uD
logistics and   ng     t of supervision and
utilization of facii1ties.
Credit 921-BD            1979            This project aimed to consolidate, strengthen and    Completed    The second project, helped G0B estabtish a
Population and Family                    ejpand the activities started un*der the first        04/1986       viable poputation cantrot program ith its
Health Project 11                        project.                                                            major comWponents of fP end MCM services
delitvery. caoaicatton, training,
monitoring, evaluation and research and
women's developgent progream Nore than 50S
of all rural unicns had institutional
facilities for delivery of FP, NCR and PMC
services: mtae-female te of field workers
existed in all the 13,500 rural wards. About
255 of married women within the reproxuctive
age group were practicing contraception by
1985. The 'Integrated' approach chsoen for
the Bangladesh program still remained a sound
strategy.  Stilt ore mcordination between
the various project etements, utitization of
unaion level and Uptila level facilties, and
cont?mucus supervision and persistene were
needed to make the progr fPraoJect
implementation successful.



- 20 -
CR$D!X 1649-8D
Table 2. P*oiegt ?imeabsl
Date           Date           Date
identiLfcatton                       11/82                          4/83
Pr ePation                           01/84                           07/84
Project Brsef                        06/84                          09/84
Appraisal                                                            10/5/84
ssues  aper                                                          11/84
Loan/Credit Negotiations             04/02/85                        09/24/85
Board Approval                       06/12/85                        01/14/86
Loan/Credit Signature                07/12/85                        02/14/86
Loan/Credit Effectivenes             08/14/86        10/14/86        12/11/86
Loan/Credit Closing                  12/31/91        06/30/92        06/30/92



-21-
PROJECTq MEIU212 REPORT
BLNL.DRSR1
THIRD POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTM PROJECT
CREDIT 1649-3D
Table 3. Credit Risburaegnts
Cumulative EstimateRd and Actual Disbursementg
(US $ Million)
Appraisal Estimate        8.7      24.3      43.6     63.1       73.2      78.0
Actual                    5.6      13.44    22.55    39.62    77.76    100.9
Actual as 8 of Estimate 64.4       55.3      51.3      52.8      106.2    129.3
Date of Final DisburseMent         December 23, 1992
NMz: The depreciation of the U.S. Dollar with respect to SDR during the course
of the Project has resulted in a situation where the value of the orlginal
credit amount of SDR 75.4 million (1985) is US$100.9 million as of Dec 31,
1992 (Annex 2).



-22'
PROJECT COHPLN ION REPRt
THIRD POPLATIP              lALtH  PRJECT
Table 4. Proiect Imlementatal
Indicators/Unit                            Appraisal Goals                           Actuat Achi.vements
Famiwlly  nntnow C M ce"  J& Detivwerv
(a) Maneement and SIMervisign
*      Creation of Directors               4                                           Created
-      Finance newly created Senior        464                                         Accomptished
Famfly  eltfar. Visitor (StM)
posts
-      A four-wheel drive vehicLe for      132                                         121
each of the supervisory
directors and two for eech of
the 64 dfstricts
-     Motorcycles for staff in S key       2.300                                       1.392
fteld supervisory positions at
Thaea level
-      3icycles for Nas, Has, FPAs, and   19,620                                       219
Allis
-      finance monthty allocation for      Tk.500                                      Tk.S00
SFWV for travel
Monthly travel allowance for:
fIAs and Has                        Tk.30                                       Tk.40
.PP  and Alts                       Tk.40                                       Tk.50
PWVs and Has                        Tk.S0                                       Tk.S0
*      Monthty boat allowance for FWAs    Tk.90                                        Tk.S000 was given to
end Has for the four months of                                                  each of about 200 Theoms
flooding                                                                        in a year for about boat
altotwnse and asked to spend
as and when needed.
Clinieal Co_raceotfon Suryeillance
-      New sUpervisory cadre of one        To be created                               Created
KO/ctinical contraception/MC to
all 64 districts
-      Four Clinical Contraception         To be continued for the project period    Continued
Surveillance Teams to supervise    in order to ensure the quality of
No$ at the UNCs and MO/CC/lCs       clinical services.
-     Addition of experienced              One to each divisional team
Bangladeshi Nurse for pre and
post operation care
Client satisfaction survey to       One in each of the first four project       Done
monitor the clinical                years
contraception program
-      Surveys on IUD and sterilization    ID in 1985-86 and 1987-88 and               Done
sterilization in alternate years
-     New IUD cases                        1.93 million                                2.23 million (Sept. 1990)
New Sterilizations                  2.92 million                                1.37 mitlion (1986-1991)
The Goats for ContraceDtive Mix and
Fertility Reduction
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR)        38-40% (Target)                             39.9% (1990)



n-23
Indicator1it                              AppraisaI Goals                         Actual Achiave mnts
-     Sterilization                41                                        26
-      IDw                         15                                        4
*     PPill                        16                                        35
-     Condum                       15                                        6
-      InJectables                 2                                         7
-     TraditionaL and others       11                                        22
Nanauemant Development Unit        To be established by Jun 30. 196          Was established in 1987. Ftold work
started only in Nay 1988.
ib)   amFe, n1n na                 isfor Dfstrlit
NIPORT
-     Restructurinr                Into 2 units (one for sqiorvision of      bone
f1eld operations and the other clloed
Training Proron Devolop nt Unit)
-         _ ageamnt Advisory       To be minta ned and operated by the       Was operated
Comittee to guide           gOveIm1Mnt
NIPORTOs institutionat
-     Trainfng                     275 FWNTI *nd RTCs                        212 (77X achieved)
training staff
-     Trainfng for dfstrict and   500 persn months trafning ao,tally         430 (86X achieved)
Thana level managers
-     Tratning for NIPORT staff   120 man-months each of local and           47 man-months (foreign)
foreign trafning
-     -fnance long-term            15 man-years                              20 mm-years
patriate technical
assistance
-     Short-term expatriate        20 man-mnths                              17 an-months (85X achieved)
consultanciss In plannfng
and fmplempntatfin of
specific trainfng
activities
-  T~raio bvReonal
irrani'no Centors IRTCs
*     8astc Training               New 11.200                                4,73s (42X achfeved)
*     Refresher Training           15,600 FIs and Has                        19,7M8 (127X achfeved)
-     Orientatfon Trafning         1,500 Field Workeo of Multi-sectoraL      200 (13K achieved)
Progrem on Fr/NC
*     Orientation Training         Trainers of RTC.                          40
n r       ty Vela sf Ystors
Jan no ntitutes
-      In-servfce 18 mnths         2.000                                     993 (50X acheved)
basic training
Percent of Total CPR



-24-
IndicatorsaUnflt                           Apprasal Goeals                           Actual Achievement.
*      Basic and refresher          464                                         703
training to Sr. FWV9
*     One month intensive           10,192                                      3.652 (36o achieved)
refresher training to
existing PNs
-      ona  month training to       240                                        1t063 (4435 achieved)
fHs for TBA training
Ce)    Fmdlv Uelhfre Assistants
-     Additiontl Fmily Welare              10,000                                      9,818 have becn recruited end traned.
Assistants (FOAs)
-      Continue providing the uaLaries    4,500                                        lepleented
of WAs f nanced under the
second Project
*      Training of Health Assistants      5S000                                        4,844 (by Septemer 31, 199)
(six :ep basic training
program)
(d)   Orm   *dKite                         4-6 DoS kits per year to operate a          102.16? (Septeaber 1991)
UHFWC or (90, 36)
t*Logistics
-     Recruitment                   For staff for four warehouses               Done
Training                     Storekeepers                                309
*      Consultancy Expatriate       24 months                                   33 (September 1991)
(f)    Construction apd Maintenanee
=      Construction of UHFMA   1n000                                                   By June 1992, a total of 1,050 UNFYC
were constructed
=     Renovation of UNFWC                  73                                          73
=      Maintenance
-      PUS                          1,045                                       1,036
-     ;UNCI                         32                                          27
-     NFPCs                         4                                           4
-      Nursing College              I                                           I
gtgrt pl and Child Heatth Care (NCR)
The specific goals and achievements of    Target (199O)                                Achievement (1990)
tbe MCI ccaponentz
*      infant Mortality Rate (IMR) per    100                                          110 (68.8X achievement)
1,000 live births
-      Ueonatal Mortality Rate (NO)        65                                          80
per 1000 live births.
*      Maternal Mortality Rate (INN)       4                                           5.7 (155 achievement)
per 1l000 live births.
Additional staff posted to boost up
w4,ervision
The Heaith Assistants Training Program was added to the project in FY88/8.°.  The program is
being ffnanced by unutitized funds from the Australian contribution of the project.



*25-
1ndicotors/Unit                            AvpriMsal Gosts                           Actual AchiMMtS
-     Assistant Directors           was not in SAR                              56 at the district lenl'
(Clinical Contraception)
-      Medical Officers (NCH-FP)   was not in SAR                              303 at the Thano leol
WCH kits                            2,360                                       2.275 (Septuaer 1991)
Nid-wifery kits                     600                                         1,675 (Septeuber 1991)
DOS kits and MCR medicine           90,366                                      102,167
Satellite clinic kits                                                           15S2005
Exoamed Pertm am of -IMMnI ation
-      3Overall coverage            85X                                         85S
-      IBC;                                                                    69
*      DPT/OPV                                                                  742
-      Mleasles                                                                682
-      Fully immunized              35X                                         65X
Two doses of Tetanus Toxoid         30X of alt women of reproductive age
-      'TI                                                                     872
-T2                                                                      782
Oral Rehydration Therapy (ORT)
-      Distribution of ORT          15 million arnually                         20 million (1332 ashieved)
packets
-      O9T Production Plants        8
-      production of ORT Packets   84 million (with 4 operating plants)         78 million (932 of target achieved)
-      Short Term training at       32,000 NOHPC staff                          15.241 (482 achieved)
Thana, union and ward
levels.
-      Production of Health         4.002,°85                                   1,848,502 (46X achievment)
Education materials
-      llorkshops/Orientation       653                                         350 (542 achievewnt)
-      Mtass Cowaunication          12,640                                      7.533 (602)
-      Baseline National Survey    To be done in 1986 and 1988                  One on Morbidity was done In 1990
to measure dfarrheal                                                    and on Mortality is beSng carried out
diseases morbidity and
mortality
*     A CDD nucleus                 At the national level                       Established
*      COD training units           One each at 8 medical college hospitals   Established
-      Diarrheal disease            30 districts                                a
Were posted under the revenue budget.
4        Ibid.
*        From the unspent balance of the project.
Only 4 ORT production plants are suffIcient as against 8 plants originally incltded in the
staff Appraisal Report estimate.



-26.
Indicetors/Unit                           Avprawsal Goals                         Actual Achievements
- rsilrno ot Olrth AStndh*s
-     Basic Training of TM.        40.000                                    13a800
-     Refresher Training of        48.000                                    t2,aQO
TBAs
-     Refresher Training of one   2,170                                      2.125
month as ThA trainers
-      10 week troining a TBA      460                                       464
vVervision
55EE4Dlat10om
Radfo Broadcssting                 75 minutes daily in three prism time      305 minutes daily
slots and fortn ghtly 20 minutes radio
fora.
*     TV prreas                           240 minutes viewing time per month        25 minutes teleat 4 days per week
(400 minutes per month)
Wjrmation. Edueatlon and Motivation                                                 Se footnote p77
-     Audiovisual vans;                   12 audiovisual vans                       4 procured
and consuLtancies                  15 person-months of local consultancies   Not dore
slearies                           3 plmifng and evaluation offfeers         Not recruited
16 district-tevel coummication            S recruited
offeers
32 audio-visual scan persomnel and 8      10
production technieians                    6
-  epoyMent of folk media teams    200                                        130
- atput of the Unit
-      - 8Fi thows                 28.080                                    25,536
-     Exhibition                   S29                                       33
-      Folk Talent                 90,000                                    74.840
-     Mass Notivational            2,100                                     2,200
meetings
-     Semin arelworksahops         21,564                                    36,595
-     Radfo Listening Forum        4.500                                     1,500
-     Health Education Bureau
-     Worksshp/orientation         6S3                                       350 (S4% achieved)
*     Production of mterfals       4,002,9M8                                 1,848.502 (46% achieved)
-     Procurement of audio-        105                                       84 (80% aehleved)
visual equipment
-     Mass commmication            12,640                                    7,533 (60X achieved)
The IE unit under the Directorate of Family Planing had not been entirely successful
throughout the project period. Iradecuate wcordinstion exists between IEM, radio Bangladesh,
and Bangladesh Television in respect of health and population programs. There is a need for
using private sector on resources design vs. production.



-27-
Indicators/Unit                            Araisal Goals                             ACtual Achivemmnts      _
-      Orrentation workshops        For 200 000 swanirvar leaders at            Has expanded to cover 138 Thana  In 39
nationai, district, Thana and union        districts (1.486 unlons, 2,500
letelt                                     vitlages)
Notivation training          700,000 swanlrvar members                   Achieved
Iomen*s Proaramse
* Mothers Centers (MCs)
-      Membership                   290,000 women of childbesaing age           387t166 (Septerber 1991)
-      Recruitment                  370,000 new Family Planning acceptors       476,560 (September 19910
*      Annuait Inome                Raise the averae annual income of each   $30
memb*er to *60
-      Coverage Goals               Expand the program in 40 Thanes and to    Done
40 additional Thanas.
-     Deplotment of trade           900 full-time trade Instructors to be       1.700 (1892 achieved)
instructors                  trained and deployed
YM'Sn   C04negAtime
-    .heiNbership                   208,000 from 67,000                         139,000
-      Income                       US$93 annually per member                   $35
=      Contraceptive Rate           increase to 502 from 40X                    About 50X
=      -Cooperative Societies       3,200                                       2.025
=      Training (manger,            171,096                                     93,427
eooperative teaders)
=      Skill Training               8,751                                       7,741
-      Staff Training               2,670                                       2,274
Adult Literacy               10,500                                      10,000
-      Nutrition Education          7,000                                       7,542
-      Training of Health           1,000                                       3,228 (323% achieved)
Workers
-      Family Planning              47,700                                      43,349
Motivators
Women's Vocational Trainina
-      Access to credit             To 75X of the members                       Much less (estimated 12X)
-      Expansion                    10 Thanes                                   Expanded
-      Per ceapita incomes          raise to US$6/month                         $5
*      Training                     19,800 more women                           21,400
-      Recruitment                  An additional 400,000 family planning       272,320
acceptors
-     Retraining                    224 trade instructors                       224
These cover 238 upa2ilas and about 730.000 women. These programs underwent enormous
difficulties due to delays in PP approval, fund release, reduction in ADP allocation and
consequent retrenchment of trained and experienced instructors for skill training. The skill
training activities of rural women cooperative nmbewrs remained suspended since July 1990.
The ADP atlocation for the BRDB women's cooperative project had been reduced to US$0.9 million
in 1990-91 from a level of USS1.3 million in 1989-90. Since November 1991. there had been an
improvement in the flow of funds and the Government has taken the necessary initiative to make
Reimbursabte Project Aid CRPA) allocations to cover the expenditures of FY91-92.



-28-
Indicators/Unit                            Appaisal Goals                            Actual Achevements
-      Usadier of NOO. actively
invotved
Stuty through home                                                       120
visits in order to expand
and intensify FP/NCH
activities through the
setected VW'ts worktng In
ssigned places.
Contribution                                                             Steriltiation 35.7X
Code          65.0X
IUD           12.3X
Pills         18.0%
Injectables   23.01
Set up a unit to recev e    Corsistire of two professionals under       A unft waS set up wIth two young
Woo grant requests and       the NOHFC Deputy Secretary to act as a    professionals under the concerned Cy.
monitor NOO performance.    Secretariat to the Comuittee                 Secretary of NHFY, who worked for
about two years upto June 1991. The
unit was closed with the tfuctfoning of
MOo affairs Bureau.
InnovatIve Proarams
-      Finance experimental         (f) Savins Blend Programs                   Not done
mneasures to generato        (i) Bonuses for delayed warriaes,           Not done
aditional demand for         longer birth lntervals and continuation
family plannng               of contraception
studies                      (1) Health Financing Study                 Completed In 1989
(II) The Cqpensations Payment Study        Compteted in 1989
(fif) Varkers Time Study                   Done
(iv) Project Completion Report (921-3D)   Completed fn 1988
(v) Project Launch and Irplemmntation      Done
Workshop                                   Completed in 1991
(vf) Population Census
ditions In the Protect
-      Grant                               For dissertation research on "Study of    Done
Rurat Leadership and lwplications for
Comunity Partietpation and Devlopment
in the Health and Fafily Planning
Programs in Bngladesh".
-      Norptant Trial Expansion fn                                                     Donct
81nidesh
Introduction of Laparoscopic                                                   Done
Technfque fn Bangladesh
-      Country-wide Couple Registration                                               Out of 29,000 FUA Registers  24,000
Program                                                                         have been printed and distributed.
Research and Evaluation
MM=asen gmd Information
SPstem Ilcpn
Project Proforea was revised In 1989 to Include nww propoessoisn Innwative Programs.



-29-
IntdicatoMrslnt                           AMoaisal Goalts                         Actual Achievements
Promotion of more           Dovelop  test and invugurate a             Field worker's resister has been
realistic local target      household refster in each ward             Introduced fn the program. The project
setting for contraceptlon                                              laput and resources are larply
and Cro performance and                                                contributing to the development of data
monitoring both worker                                                 base service d? ivery nd monitoring
performance and the use                                                and wvaluation °.
of inpuns from the Thena
Pooulation ROvetment Evaluation Unit
POEW   work program Involved       24 studies                                 Completed 27 studies, 21 by POEU s
identifted studios divided                                                   professional staff and 6 were
according to priority.  Top                                                   contracted to private organiations.
priority was to studies related
to training program, social
marketing proJect, second to a
study of UNFUC fiactioning and
third to reevaluation of the
three women's program, the
national steritization program
and quatitative revenue of the
service delivery system.
Protect Nanaoement SuMort
Procureent Unit                    Establishment and operation of this        The procurement for vehicles  drugs and
unit for procurement                      dietary supplements (DOS) kits
conltraceptives, NSR~ surgical apparel
-One cIDttedexespt bicycles and
-      3Program  onitoring Cell (P9C)                                               Refng implemented.'2
to      The training of the ffeld workers in the proper use of the revfsed field worker's register has
not yet bogsu. Training of Trainers has been comenced.
Uangsadosh cycle industry was awarded a contract for supplying 9,000 bicycles in early 1940
but only 219 blepyles have been delivered to date. This raises doubts about the capacity for
supplyfng bicycles. 392 motorcycles are stilt in crates at the central warehouse since Nay
1991.
12      Was added in 1990 to achieve two objectives, (f) determfnatfon of the commitment and dynamiam
of the district upaziza level officers, and Cif) ffield verification of performance reports,
rates and data supplied to the Govenrment.



-30-
Indicators/Unit                            Appraisal Goals                           Actual Achievemaents
Mew C~ussi added to the project
ider Owlotgnt Credit Agreent
1i) Provision of non-clinical form of    cupleted
contraception (condoms oral pills and
InJectables)
(li) Repairs and renovation of 64
Maternal and Child wtofare Centers.
Construction of accomnodatlins for the
resident physicians and acquisition of
46 awbulances.
tf11) Construction of a regionat
warehouse at Chittagong for supplies.      completed
(iv) Repair and rehabilitation of
flood affected health and family
planning facilities including:
898 UNFUCs
45 UNCs                                    799
19 FPVTls/RTCs                             45
19
At the end of 1989, the Government, IDA and the Cclinanciers concluded that significant
portions of the IDA Credit and of the Cofinanciers' contributions were tmlikely to be
utilized. In the case of the Credit, savings of about SDR 23.5 million (about 31% of the
total allocatfon) would have occurred mainly as a result of lower than anticipated costs of
medical supplies, reduced doend for surgical requisites and apparel for sterilization and
depreciation of the US dollar in relation to the SDR. These amendments enabled the Government
to procure critically needed additional contraceptives and improve physical facilities in
order to achievo the project objectives more effectively.
Vorks of repir/rnovation and construction of staff quarters and garages at MCUCs, flood
rehabilitation of FiCs and msintenance of FWCs are proceeding rather slowly and are likely to
remin incomplete in this project.



ROJEC COMPlEOM         P REP0PT
BAIYGLADESH
THIRD P_CPLAT_ON AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECr
CREDIT 1_49-BD
Table 5A. Detailed Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate        Revised Estimate 1/              Actual
BY PROJECT COMPONENTS                 Local  Foregn      Total    Local  Foreign    TotW    Local  Foreign     Total
US$ MiIlin -----          ----- US$ Mlllon -----     ----US$ MllIon
FPIMCH SERVICE DELIVERY                94.4     53.0    147.4    108.4      69.0    177.4    119.8     80.5    200.3
MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH PROGR         3.0      0.3      3.3      3.0       6.4      9.4      3.3      7.1     10.4
COMMUNICATIONS                          8.2      0.8      9.0      2.1       0.8      2.9      2.3      0.9      3.2
WOMENS PROGRAMS                        13.7       1.2     14.9     13.7      1.2     14.9     15.3      1.3     16.6
NGO SUPPORT AND INNOVATIVE PROG         9.0      0.0      9.0      9.0       0.1      9.1     10.1      0.0     10.1
EVALUATION AND RESEARCH                 2.3      0.5      2.9      2.3       0.5      2.8      2.6      0.6      3.2
PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT              1.6      0.1      17       0.6      1.1       1.7      0.8 a    17       25
TOTALBASECOST                        132.2     560    188.2    139.1      791    218.2    154.2      921    248.3
CONTINGENC0E.
Physica contingencies                  2.9      1.5      4.4      2.9       1.5      4.4      0.0      0.0      0O 2t
Prce contingencies                    11_2     10.0     212      12        100      21.2      Q.0               0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  146.4     67.4    213.8    13.2      90.6                                  __ 154  246.3
11 Due to the depreciation of the US dollar In relation to the SR and cf_ancn cunff en, GOB requested that consideration be given to reformulating
the Project. Following Board approval In December 1989. the Development Credit Agrenent was amended to allow procurement of criticaly neede
additional contraceptive supplies as well as additional construction, renovation and upgrading ot health and family planning faciliies
under the proJect.
2t The amounts costed as contingencies have been absobd under the vaftus project components whie depcng the achtua c aim



TJ PKLATtON AND FAMILY MML1 PROJECT
Table 5. D d PtoZc Ca
Appraisal Estmate   RWedd Estiae I/                   Actual
BY EXPENDiITURE CATEGORIES              Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total    Loc    Foren    Total
------ US. MillIn         ---  US MIllIon ---        --- USS Milon ---
CMLWORKS                                 23.5     11.3    34.8    37.5       11.3    48.8    43.2    127        55.9
FURNITURE                                 1.3      0.5      1.8      1.3      0.5     1.8      1.4      0.6      20
EQUIPMENT                                 0.8      1.3      2.1      0.8      1.3     2.1      0.       1.5      24
VEHICLES                                  4.8      3.2      7.8      4.6      .2      7.8      5.2      3S       a.
MCH SUPPLIES AND EQUiP                    0.2      0.3      0.4      0.2      0.3     0.4      0.2      8.1      8.3
DRUG AND DErARY SUPPLEENT KITS            0.0    28.1    281         0.0    44.1     44.1      0.0    49.2    49.2
OTHHER MEDICAL AND SURGICAL EQUIP        162       0.0     16.2    16.2      0.0      16.2    18.1      0.0    181
CONTRACT SERVICES                         1.2      0.0      1.2      1.2      0.0     1.2      1.4      0.0      1.4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      0.4      5.5      5.8      OA       5.5      5.8     0.4      61       6.5
TRAINING (Felowship and nervlce)         1.        0.7    19.0    18.3        0.7    19.0    1&6        0.8    14.4
SURVEYS, STUDIES AND DATA ANALYSES        2.5      0.0      2.5      Zs       0.0     2.5      2.8      M0       2.8
NNOVATIVE AND NGO ACTIVITIES              9.0      0.0      9.0      9.0      0.0     9.0    10.1         O     10.1
BUILDING OPERATING AND MANTEN.            5.7      1.3      6.9      S.7      1.3     8.9      8.3      1.4      7.7
VEHICLE OPERATING AND MAINTEN.            2.2      3.6      5.9      2.2      9.6     5.9      2.5      4.1       6
SALARIES AND ALLOWANCE                   42.6      0.0    42.6    42.6        0.0    42.6    46.1       1.6    47.7
OFFK:E SUPPIES                            1.0      0.0      1.0      1.0      0.0     1.0      1.1      0.0      1.1
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                   2.6      0.0      2.6      2.6      0.0     2.6      2.9      0.0      29
EQUIPMENT OPERATING AND MAINTEN.          0.2      0.2      0.4      0.2     0.2      0.4      0.2      0.2      0.4
TOTAL BASE COST                        132.2    56-0    188.2   146.2      70    218.2   156.4    89.9    24
CONTINGENCIES
Physa contIngncIes                       2.9      1.5      44      2.9       1.5     4.4      0.0      0.0      0O 2P
Pricecontingencies                      11.2     10.0     21.2    11.2    10.0      21.2      0.0      0.0      0.O
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              67.4   213      1604              243.8    156.4      9      246.3
1/ Due to the depreciation of the US dollar In relation to the SDR and cnancInqcurrencIes, GOB requested hat consdertin be gvn to refonlmang
the project. Following Board approval in Oecember 1989, the DOvelopmeni Credit Ageemet was annded to allow procurement of cricay needed
additonal contraceptive supplis as well as additlonal conuction, renovatlon and upading of health and amiy planning facites under the proje
21 The amounts costed as contingencis have been absorbed under the vaious proect cmpoent while depicting the actual costs.



- 33 -
Mg=qc CMQNJ qEPORT
M1WE 0UA=ON AND FAMILlY H0WMe=
Table SC. Prot  Flnancing
Planned          ievised 11        Fia
BY FINANCIERS                           --------------  U$Muillon ------------
IDA,
CIVLWORKS                                    34.0             54.0            49.6
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                       20.9             9t9              5.4
DRG AND DIETARY SUPPLEMENT KITS              10.6             10.6             89
CONTRACEPTIVE SUPPLIES                        0.0             16.0           32.5
CONTRACEPTIVE PREVALENCE SERVEYS              0.4             0.4             0.2
INNOVATIME ACTIVIIES                          5.1             21              4.2
SUPERVISION DIRECTORATE                       0.2              0.2            0.1
UNALLOCATED                                   u                                Q
Sub-Total                                   78.0             K00i.
CO-FINANCING INSTITUTIONS:
AUSTRAUAN GOVERNMENT                          7.2              7.2            a5
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEV. AGENCY           23.5             27.5            27.7
GERMANY                                      28.7             28.7            26.3
NETHERLANDS                                   6.1             a1              7.9
NORWAY                                       23.6            27.2             27.9
OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT ADMIN.                 iQ                12.3           1i2
Sub-Total                                   fl.             111.0           nuR
DOMESTIC:
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH                      ;               WA
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        213.8              Za au
1t Due to the depreciation of the US dollar in relation to the SOR and cofIQninq currnnWs, G08 requested
that consideration be given to reformulating the Project. Following Board approval in December 1989. the
Delopment Credit Agreement was amended to allow procurement of critically needed additonal
contraceptives sup-.:es as well as additional c'nstruction, renovation and upgrading of health and family
planning facilities under the project.



Tato 6A. betl        is
iinHcators                       19/86                Appraal  Ust1ute             Estiwated at                Aasesnt
(1990)                    (191)
Total Fertility Rate                   S.8                      4.8                        4.S'                       Achieved
Redction of the Crude                  3901000                  3291000                    33.7/10002                 mearty *uaied
Sirth Rate
Infant Mortatity Rate                  132/1000                 100/1000                   110/1000                   Not   ty Adcieved
Live Births
maternal Irtality Rate                 6/1000                   4/1000                     S.7/1000l Not Achieved
Live 31rths
Children fulty twommized               2X                       35                          6f_ Exceeded Twret
World Bank, The Deterinants of Reproductive Change In Bangladesh, (Draft), Juty 1992.
N inistry of Nealth and Famlly Welfare Plenning; Status Report on Bangladesh Third and Fourth Population and Health PrtJ.t for ortld Be* Rewve. Ohaka.
October 1992.
' Statistical Division of GO and UNICEF, The State of World's Chitdren.
4  Ibid.
'  Ninistry of Health onedFamity Weltfor Pltaing; Status Report on Bangtadesh Third Poputation and w el ty Heatth Project for MA Cofinae1ms Rewiew, Ohaka,
mer, 19.



.35.
tHIo MI.ULUIgs- MLTH MRJECT
Table 68.  stuqta.
Study                   Status                                        Imact
1.      Health Ftnancing Study         CoMloted              Provided major input into the Bagldosh Pubice
Ezxediture Review. Agreement ws reached wIth 0OB to
althne revem lnd devlopmnt funding for both tho
heitth and  af lty planning Aru  Oevelopment Plan
equally. La-toru sustainability reires Incaifn
cmnitment of 008's oin funds to the program. This
study reinforeed the need to establish a Health
Economics and Financing Pllot Project, strengthen NWFV
ln the area of health financing and formulat a plan to
address issues of obtaining a balance betwen reven
and development budgets, cost-sharing medcanisf and
improved cost-effectiveness.
2.      Compstion Payment Study    Completed                 an the basis of the results of this study aos abolished
compensation peyment to referral agents and whelpers".
Pafiments or these cadres have been abolished and
dscontinued.
3.      Evaluation of the impact of    Completed             Famity Planming programs on Radio and Tetlvision have
Radio and Television                                 contributed towards popularizing family planing methods
Programs on Contraceptive                            in Bangladesh. These programs have been found to have
and reproductive behaviors                           played an useful role 1n exposing the target groups to
of listeners and viewers.                            the family platming and NCH issues. Consequently a
higher contraception use rate has also been found among
the listeners and viewers.
4.      Worker's Time Study             Cmpleted             The perception was that participation in EPI made nfIA's
more acceptable to the Community and thereby
facilitated their family planning performeance. As a
result training of FWAs on EPI got more intensifled and
coverage of EPI increased tremendously.
5.      Bangladesh Fertility Survey    Conpleted             Helped formulate future policies regarding population
control and fmi ly plamning.
6.      Family Planning Activities      Completed            Findings of the study sugoested that an intensive
through Swanirvar program                            family planning program in rural Bangladesh can achieve
success in terms of contraceptive prevalence and
attracting users Interested In chitd spacing and others
wanting to limit family size. Seven percent
respondents reported that workers visit them once a
month.
7.      Client satisfaction  with       Completed            The study suggested that the decrease in the number of
sterilization procedure                              sterilization acceptors after mid-eightes, wwa not
caused by the growing dissatisfaction among the already
sterilized clients. There were many reasons for
decline in the nmiber of sterilization like fall in
compensation payments, abolition of referral fees.
shift of emphasis from sterilization to other
reversible methods etc. As a result, study was
recommended as a tollow up to identify the causes for
decilne in sterilization.
8.      Evaluation of Performance of   Completed             Since the study was not based on a before and after
Health and Family Planning                           design, it is difficult to precisely determine the
Field Workers                                        effect of training on knowledge, skill and perforzmnce
of field workers. A high correlation is observed
between knowledge-and performance of the FWAs which may
partly be due to their exposure to training.



.36-
Table 68. Cent.
Stud-                   Status                     -                m      act
9.      Evatuation of Inpact of          Completed
Training an the Pertormance
of Famfly Plaming Officers
10.     Evaluation of the MCH            Completed
Services Program
I.     Uaseline Surveys to measure    19865  1988
diarrheal disease morbidity
and mortality
12.     81-Annual Contraceptive          1986, 1989, and
Prevaent  Survey                1991 completed and
draft report
prepared.
13.     Census, 1991                     Completed.



.37.
cover~r                        coElXRER
Table 7., Statt, ovet cta
Part of the       Covenanto                   SUJect                     Deadltin                      Status
OCACovenat
Schedute 4
Part A                t       Family Planint  Contraceptive                            Comfled
Survilltance Team annul Assessmmnt
Part A                2       operation o  Four Clinical                               Futly operational
Contraceptive Surveilanco  Tam
throgot the Project perlod
Part A                3       Operation of a meagaenent Advisory                       MIPORT functioning atisfactorily
Committee to guide MIPORTIs averats
institutional developuent
Part A                4       Additional Fality Uelfare Assistants    June 30, 1990   Out of a sehdedled totat of 10,000
to achieve a 1. 4,000 ratio                              FWAs 9818 have been recruited and
trafned
Part A                5       Emplcyment of local consultants to                       Consultants oppointed and comptled
provide overall siuprvision of the
construction p~rCya end report on
prgress to the Chief Ingineer of the
Construction Managemnent Cell
Part B                6       Universal Child ImounIatien and                          Coopltance continues
expanded Program of Imunizatfon
Part D                7       wemen's Progras                                          Compliance continues
Part I                8       N10 Strategy                                             Compi fed
Part F                9       Preparatfon and Implementation of a                       eirng tested and fncorporated Into NIS
plan for the incorporation of MCN                        progress weak, possibly to be  erged
service statistics into the                              with FlA Register System of NIS
Management Information system (NIS)
Part f               10       Operation of National Steering                           Functioning weakly
Committee for Population Research
Part F               tt       Si-annual Contraceptive Prevaltece                       Previous CPS done fn 1986 and 1989.
Surves                                                   CPS 1991 conpleted and draft report
prepared
General              12       Compensatfon Paysent Study              Deceaber 1986   Following sub*mfsion of the
Consultant's report to G08 and the
Cofinanciers, GOB agreed to abollsh
compensation payment to referral
agents and 'helpers."  Paymnts for
these cadres have been abolished and
discontinued. C00 pubhished Its own
versien of the study In March 1989
Generat              13       8ealth Firancing Study                  March 1987       Study completed and discussed by IDA
and the cofinanciers with M08. To
continuously address the
sustainebinbty Issues, agreement was
reacbed with GOV to estabifsh a Nea1th
Economics and Financing ProJect in
MONWF under the Fourth ProJect
General              14       Annual Review System and IDA                             On Schedule
Cofinanclers Progress Review
Article 4
Section 4.01                  Audits                                                   All Audit Reports concerning the
proJect have been received. Serious
observat1ons es identified by IDA are
being addressed by GOB
The reference nwabers fn this table are from the ODveqopment Credft Agreement 1649-60.
Ibid.



-38-
PROJECT CGPLETIO NMrI
JNIRD POPUATJU_1           AI PCU
CREDlt 164f9-10b
table OA. Use of ilak R Jeou
Staff IOWAuts(Saf Ieqwp
Stag of Project Cyclo  FY83   FY84   FY65   FY86   FY87 f FY6    Y89   FY90   FY91   FY92   TOTAL
Through AppraIsal      18.1   26.8    48.3                                                          93.2
Appraisol through
g"d Approvat                          126.9  31.6                                                  158.5
loaird Approval
through Effectivess                          41.3                                                   4t.3
Stpervision (Headqurters)                            25.4   45.9   68.9   132.3  79.7   52.6   404.4
PPO (Resfdent Nfssion)                               A/              /      107.1  102.1  89.7   298.9 IV
Total Supervisicn                                    25.4   45.9   68.9   239.49J 181.8  142.3  703.? W
Grand Total            18.1   26.8   175.2  72.9   25.4   45.9   68.9   239.4  7181.8  142.3  996.7 W
Al Tim recorded against general Technicat Assistance (TAS)
V Does not lnclude staff inputs of Population Office (Resident Nissfon) betwen FY8T-FY89.
1i Increase in staff irnputs is due to Reprogramung and Rebudeting Exeri".



PROJECT COPPLETIO REPMRT
THIRD POPULATIOR AND FA"MIY HEALTH PROJECT
Table 88. NfMi#on
Total
Vudeer of        Days in           Spcilization          Perfonsnnce           Type of
Staae of Prolect Cycle                      MbnthtYeari Pro    a/               Fletd            Reprsentedno     g/ RuProb le s/
Identification                              11-12/82            6                 72             DOC,US,A,PS,
PNS,LO
Identification                              4/83                4                 56             VS, Ps (3)
Preparation Nission for
Comnication Component                      9-10/83             1                 12             PHS
Preparation                                 1/84                3                 39             MSFPS,P"S
Preparation for information,
education and commmication
component                                  3/84                1                 1S             NS
Kelp the Gcovermaint to redraft
Third Five Year Plan and Incor-
porate its program impicatIons
to the design of the project               4/84                1                  3             NS
Preappraisat                                7/84                5                  70            NS,MSeP"SDDC,wP
9/84                1                26              NS
Appraisal                                   10/84               6                 132            NS,NS(2), PKS,PS,
RA
Post-Appraisal                              11/85               1                  6             NS
.... ..... _*......................................... .......................................................................................... ........................ ....................................   ..   ............w..........
M/    Includes Population and Health Staff in Resident Nission
y    PS#Population Specialist; USaNutirtion Specialist; NS=Management Specialist; Dozemograpker; PNS=Public Nealth specialtst; AcArchitecht; LOoLoan
Officer, RA=Resarch Assitant; POaProject Officer; OCcDivIsion Chief; DDCuCeputy Division Chief, WcVomens Progrus; COOCoflnancing Officer;
OAMPPerations Assistant; PROaProgrum Officer
W ImProblem Free or Minor problem; 2nNoderate problems; 3*9aJor problems
#    NMm urial; TaTechnical; PaPotitical; FaFlnancial; O4ther



Total
Iuder of            cap In         Speciizatin        Performnce         Tp of
_tase of Protet Cq4fle                                              fsLar                      Atn sl  o  tf£ St   y          e  gI
IqAemntation Review                   02/86            4              52           PO,PHS,PS,RA                               I IS; T
mplementation                         07/86            4              68           IS,PH, PS (2)         1                 IS; P
siqervMsln I                          1/87             S              80            PS(2),#S,PNS (2) 2   N; T
Supervfsfon/Coffnancingjronor
Coordination Mission  It             9/87             2              52            PS,PO,               2                 I, T
Review RNesion  III                   3/88             6              90            PS(4),PO,PMS    2   M, P
SupervtsIfaRepro9rnirt ard
Rebudgeting IV                       6-7/88           4              60            PS(3);PO                               11, T,
Supervision V                         9-10/88          4              48           PS(3),PO,             2                 I, T, P
Supervision VI                        11/88            1               5            PRS                                    T                    $
Supervision VII                       11-12/88         3              4S            PS(2),PO                               R, T
Supervision VlIt                      3-4/89           7              15            PS(3),PO,PNS     2                     I, P, t
PRo (2)



lotal
mubern of           Oays in        specitzation       Perforisce         Type of
Stage gf Project  MIle                 Nonthft2ar      Persm     b    fleld           ke,onM te           Ratino Status W    Pr-eb St
Supervision/Cofrnancing                                                               PS(3),PO,PIS,
Coordination Mission VIV               11/89              7             70            O,PMO(2)             2                N, 0
Supervision Mission X                  2-3/90            10             120           PSMA),POOL),PHS,
OAc0,PR0 X2)                            , P
Supervision Mission XI                 10-11/90          9              216           PS(3),POCI),          2                N. P, 0
PHS, O, CO0
Stqervision Mission XiI                5/91              7              91            PS3) PHS (2),   2 M. P. 0
PRO(2)
Supervision Missifn XIII               11/91             11             132           PS(5),PNS (2),   2 M, 0
OA,CO,PRO(2)
Supervision Mission XIV                4/92              9              135           PS(4),PNS (2),   1
a,PRO(2)



-62-
PROJECT COWPLET IOU REpORT
THIRD PUIMATI0# HDfAlt  HEALTN PROJEC
Table 9 : Pgggurmn1t
Catpe-wit                                                 Physicai Quantity as             Cuwulatfve up to
Mpr Project ProforMS             SePtember 1991
F    v Ptinins                                             56                                56
-      Jeep
-     Notor Cycle                                          1392                               1392
*      B1eycle                                             224500                            219
-      Condoms (million prfees)                            46.44                             73.95
-     Orra  Pills (mittion cycles)                         46.44                             73.95
=      Injectables (Niltion dose)                          I.44                              3.02
arehausina and DRstribution SYStem
-     Nbchinery wnd Equipment                              1,371                             1.371
*      tranaport and Vehicles                              13                                11
*     Equipments for RTCs                                 1t200                             1t179
*     Mierobuses (new) & RTCs                             I
*   "Nicrobuse  (replatement)                              19                                6
*     Equipments and Vehicles for  fWTIs                   320                               274
-      NCN Kits                                            2,360                             Z.275
Nidwifer Kits and Equipments                        800                              1t675
-      Awbutanees                                          14
DODS Kits and NCR medicines                               90,366                            102.167
-      Satetlite Clinie Kite                                                                 15,200 3/
-      Procurement for Education ORS   tT -
Nutrftion:
-      A.V. Equipment                               105                               84
-      Vehicle                                      I                                 I
-      Funiture                                     44                                44
-      Vehiltes for ORS distribution                       18                                5
*     Delivery Kits for TBA's                              40,000



-43.
Table 9.  Cont.
cIponont                                                Physical Quantity as per         Cuulatio uto
Project Protor30                saptebr I199
Training Matorials for TBA's                       139.700                          97.414
- -   Equipment                                                                     65X
-     Vaccine                                                                       4=
-     Vehicle                                                                       41S
C q ]gcatflo
-     Maehinery & Equipment                               5
-     Transport Vehicles                                  5
-     Video Monitors 6m color                             2                                2
Video Monitors 12j color                               2                                 2
=     Stationery - Portable
U-mntic liband VCR                                 6                                6
=     Tmfe Code Edit Central Unit                         2                                2
-     ENG/EFP with all Its accessories                    2                                2
-     VehicLes                                            16                               4
=     Machinery                                           4S17
ODisplay Mater1ias                                      949                               60.250
-     Audio/Visual Materials                              5S333,000                        6,397,600
Cooperatfves
-     Cycle-Taxis                                 9f                                93
-     31-cycles                                    100
*     Sewing Machines                             1t912                             40
*     Coir Nachine                                 Be                               80
-     Weaving Machines                        40                         40
MNothersL Cnters
*     Equipments                                   2.917                            2.919
-     Vehicles                                     5                                3
-     FurnIture                                    486                              486



Table 9. Cont.
Ca,aoent                                                Physical Quantity as per         Cumulative UP to
Project Proforme                September 19v1
Vocational  aters
-     Machinery and Vehicles                                                        1,609
Furniture                                   ?                                81
1/ From the unspent balance
Source. Management InformatIon System Unit (1W:S), a Status Report on 8angladesh Thfrd Population and Health
Project, Novefber 1991.



THID P%KJA?W  AND FAMIY HEALT  PROJECT
CGEDIT 1649-BD
Appraisal Budgets by Component and Financing Source
| Population Project I                   Population Project Ir               Population Project III
Type of        IDA       Cofi-   tOB        Total    IDA       Cof i-   GOB       Total   IDA      Cof i-    GOB       Total
Activities    Credit    nanced  Counter               Credit  nanced  Counter              Credit  nanced   Counter
Grant   -part                        Grants  -part                       Grants   -part
Funding                              Funding                              Funding
Clvil Works   4.18        7.27    2.37      13.82    18.60   24.62   3.14         46.36   41.15   0.00       3.32      45.07
(Percent)      (27.8)    (28.6)  (44.6)    (30.2)   (58.1)  (36.7)  (28.5)   (41.1)  (52.8)  (0.0)    (10.8)    (21.1)
.~                        -                           -         -        --                -  .a..
Equipment/    6.64       3.35    0.21       6.20      5.50    7.82    3.30       16.62   31.26   23.03    5.58         S9.87
Supplies 
(Percent)      (17.6)    (13.2)  (3.9)    (13.6)   (17.2)  (11.7)  (30.0)   (is.1)  (40.1)  (23.2)   (15.3)    (28.0)
Trainiag       0.43       0.27    0.0        0.70      0.10    1.78    0.37       2.25    0.58    18.s5    1.02         20.15
(Percent)      (2.9)      (1.1)   (0.0)     (1.5)    (0.3)   (2.7)   (3.4)    (2.0)   (0.7)    (18.7)   (2.8)           (9.4)
Salaries\a    1.83        5.52    0.02      7.37      0.73    21.05   2.50        24.28   0.00    35.86    15.71        51.57
(Percent)      (12.2)    (21.7)  (0.4)      (16.1)   (2.3)   (31.4)  (22.7)   (22.1)  (0.0)   (36.1)   (43.1)    (24.1)
Special \b    0.30        O.05    0.00      0.35      1.46    0.54    0.00        2.00    5.01    21.96    10.22       37.19
Activities
(Percent)      (2.0)      (0.2)   (0.0)     (0.8)    (4.6)   (0.8)   (0.0)    (1.8)   (6.4)    (22.1)   (28.0)    (17-4)
Unallocated   5.62        8.93    2.72       17.27    5.6      11.20   1.69       18.49   0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00
\c
(percent)      (37.5)    (35.2)  (51.1)   (37.8)   (17.3)  (16.7)  (15.4)   (16.8)  (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)             (0.0)
Total          15.00      25.39   5.32      45.71    31.99   67.01   11.00    110.00  78.00   99.40    36.45           213.8S
(percent)      (100)      (100)   (100)     (100)    (100)   (100)   (100)    (100)   (100)   (100)    (100)           (100)
Percent of    (32.81)   (55.5)  (11.6)   (100)    (29.1)  (60.9)  (10.0)   (100)   (36.5)  ( .5)   (17.1)    (100)
Total
ka Public sector salaries and related operating costs.
kb Research, Innovative activites, and special NGO projects.
kc Physical and price contingencies unallocated at appraisal, but consigned to specific components during implementation.



- 46 -
('400 Us dollars)
Bourc s of VLnm¢lng       Planned        kActug  at the   % of Planned
trLbution unr of tho              Contribution
.toSjct      Disbursed
10o3-                            36,471            34,640     9S
IDA (US$)                       77,994           100,890    129
IDA ($OR)                       75,400            75,303  _
Australia                        7,154             6,509     90
Canada                          23,483           27,662*    118
led. Rep. of aermany            28,674           28,316*     99
Netherlanda                      6,097            7,910*    130
Norway                          23,629           27,874*    118
United KILgdom                  10,348           12,469*    120
*       sincludes both parallel finacing an Trust ftnds.



- 47 -
YMIRD pPOULa1frON aND WaNXLY R3ALYR PROJiNa
CflRDfl 1649-R
Trends In   gk4=al@  Rates Revi Donor 2AS"Wina 
god V.3, Dollar
(CurtOncy per U.S. dollar)
_1985/86                  1991/92
Australia                                  1.4288                      1.2998
Canada                                     1.3818                     1.1623
Fed. Rep. of Germany                       2.5064                     1.6516
Netherlands                                2.8243                     1.8597
Norway                                     7.7128                     6.4682
United Xinqdom                              .6942                       .5684
IDA (DR)                I                   .9128                      .7283
Ixchange rates are based on the period average.
sources International Monetary Fund, International Financial Statistics, various
issues.



- 48 -
ARMe 4
ORDSY 149-3D
Yt.dm in Total FE*Ailit  RlAU  in Ranleladh
(as reported by various surveys)
Tear           3SSu            BVSK 1989          CPS 1989          CP81 1991
1979             -                6.8                 _                  _
1980            5.0               6.8 -
1981            5.0               6.7                                       .
1982            5.2               6.4  _ _
1983            S.1               6.1        _ _
1984            4.8               S.9                5.6                 -
1985            4.7               S.6                5.5                5.6
1986            4.7               S.0                5.0                5.0
1987            4.4               4.9                4.6                4.9
1988            4.4               4.6                4.9                4.6
1989            4.3                -                  -                 4.1
1990            4.3                -                  -                 4.2
I      Bangladesh Burau of statistics registration scheme as quoted by
World Bank, The Determlnants of Reproductive Change in Bangladesh,
Draft, July 1992.
Bangladesh Fertility Survey
8      Bangladesh Contraceptlve Prevalence Survey
As quoted by World Sank, The Determinants of Reproductive Change in
Bangladesh, Draft, July 1992.



- 49 -
a
TRIRD POPUL.APION AND EAMCLy R3ALYR PnOJa
CREDIT 1649-D
Trendut in Tot1 Vertilitv Rt  n BAanladesh
(as reported by various survey.)
Year           a8ss             5F81 1989         CP2m 1989          CpS& 1991
1979             -                6.8                                        _
1980            5.0               6.8                 -                  _
1981            5.0               6.7                 _                  -
1982            5.2               6.4                 _                  -
1983            5.1               6.1                 _                  -
1984            4.8               5.9                5.6                 -
1985            4.7               5. 6               SS                5.6
1986            4.7               S.0                S.0                S.0
1987            4.4               4.9                4.6                4.9
1988            4.4               4.6                4.9                4.6
1989            4.3                -                  -                 4.1
1990            4*3                a                  -                 4.2
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics registration scheme as quoted by
World Bank, The Determinants of Reproductive Change in Bangladesh,
Draft, July 1992.
Bangladesh Fertility Survey
Bangladesh Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
As quoted by World Bank, The Determinants of Reproductive Change in
Bangladesh, Draft, July 1992.



-50-
s                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Amue7 A
MET   t01             h
litlenut Lotl Appraetbl of Pinity Plmnfag tupat     owuts
Toar      Iet lties    VW  in       flild worker In                    A chievemnts ti  thouandal.
wlmmnt.d   pine          pl               I
C    FIIC                FPA       no       Steriliation   IU       InJetabtlo   Pitt       Condom
(Cyles)  (dosens)
1975        147     -        425       122*     1             -           -          --
19M-76        151    28       546       144      363           49          78         2          5943       4562
196-77        179    52       68        2521      6418         116                    3          4639       29
1977-78       25     78       M55       4308     1134?         77          41         5          748?       544?
1978-79       275    113      1019      *241     12234         106         23         11         7121       4795
1979-80       275    27B      1300      3948     12165         199         22         26         6228       4907
1980-81       275    452      1994      3932     12128         259         42         112        8138       7259
1961-82       312    618      254?      3924     12076         303         84         81          t1        769
1982-0        319    905      2961      3908     12013         363         118        73         825        9735
1903-84       344   1083      3404      3892     11963         S52         303        122        9726       10925
1984-85       346   1365     3850       3886     11952         492         432       166        11553       12662
1965-86       352   1648      3948      385      11925         26B         368       216        12137       11326
1966-87       361   1923      4024      3875     12583         351         420       315        1S023       12436
i96-U8        364   2069      4046      3875     16101         196         379       389        19100       13872
198-89       364   2214      4046      3875     18199         231         362       S99        24620       15165
1989-99       364   2354     4046       387S     21155         225         366       1260       34346       16502
1990-91             2400      3303      4388     21156         16          274       1689       42704       11150
*A ter of ono  mue wd on femte ttivetor pW  uion recruited lot 1973 In 35 thms In 5 districts. Thes motivators were
snsmtty  dorbd es FPA  nd  ,AMs.
Soue   World 8.*, "T   Determints t oft Repodctive Oaan  In Banladesh". Populattin al Num  Resources Operations
Division, COUrtry .patmimnt 1, South Asia hgfon, July 1992 (Draft).



-Ul-
Annex 7
CRUD?? 1649-8D
CaIunatzONs PnRanUzEG O 5 IRMIS AVURT=
DWi ir  INN     PMJD
In this Annex an attempt La made to assess the ipact of the famlly planning
program in terms of number of births averted.  Tables a &nd S          give tho
population of women of reproductive age by five-year age groups and their
fertility rates from 1985 through 1991. Table C glves the actual number of
births based on the continued declining fertility rate, as experienced ln
Bangladesh during these years. 5h hypothetical annual number of births Ln Table
D is based on the             that the fertlity would have remad constant at
the 1985 level.  The difference between the lattr two tables amounts to 3.3
million births, reflecting the difference between the continued decline of the
fertility rate since 1985, with the number of births that would have taken place
if fertility would not have changed since 1985.
Most of these numbers of prevented births can be credited to the further
strengthening of the family planning progEam and to a lesser extent to increased
ages of women at marriage ln Bangladesh.
In the BAR the number of births likely to be averted between 1985 and 2000
as a result of the project was estimated at around 7.4 mlllion. Based on our
calculations, the estimated number of birthe prevented by continued strengthening
of the family program during the project period already amounted to 3.3 million.
W World Bank, The Determinants of Reproductlve Change in Bangladesh
Population and Human Resources Operations Division, Country Department, South
Asia Region, July, 1992 (Draft).



-52-                               aAMLx 
Cont.
Table A.  _gE 0? R OuCYiE  G   ?  VE-!EARg  GOUP
(Thouands)
XI" IJ8U             20-24     21a2 SAQ              3S-39 gU40 4--42
1985      5,119      4,265     3,S89      2,607     2,165      1,861      1,S37
1986      5,301      4,376     3,720      2,560     2,201      1,901      1,610
1987      S,484      4,505     3,827      2,929     2,243      1,941      1,646
1988      S,666      4,649     3,920      3,110     2,300      1,981      1,682
1989      5,849      4,805     4,010      3,285     2,378      2,019      1,719
1990      6,033      4,968     4,107      3,440     2,486      2,055      1,756
1991      6,192      5,147     4,218      3,568     2,630      2,090      1,795
Table 3.       AE-_PECZIFC PERTXLlT RAZS
Kma        1i-19      20-24    2S-29      30-3§      35-39     40-44      45-49
198S      .2025      .3018     .2416      .1825      .1142     .0497      .0178
1986      .1945      .2931     .2351      .1760      .1091     .0471      .0168
1987      .1864      .2844     .2286      .1695      .1040     .0444      .0159
1988      .1784      .2758     .2221      .1630      .0989     .0418      .0150
1989      .1704      .2671     .2157      .1565      .0939     .0392      .0140
1990      .1624      .2S85     .2092      .1500      .0888     .0365      .0131
1991      .1543      .2498     .2027      .1435      .0837     .0339       0122
Sourcess       National Institute of Population Research and Training (EIPORT),
fanaladash FertLlitv Rurveyv  1989.
World Dank, Population and Human Resouces Department Staff
gstimates.



-S3-                         £nnqm 2
Cont.
Table C.  ACTUAL NUMBERS OF DIRTHS
(Thousands)
Xaz                 aa15-19    2C-24    25-29    30n34  35-39  40-44  4S-49    Total
1985      1,037     1,287    867       476       247       92        28        4,304
1986      1,031     1,283    875       485       240       89        27        4,030
1987      1,022     1,281    875       496       233       86        26        4,021
1988      1,011     1,282    871       507       228       83        25        4,006
1989      997      1,283     865       514       223       79        24        3,985
1990      980      1,284     859       516       221       75        23        3,957
1991      956      1,286     855       512       220       71        22        3,921
Total                                                                         27,954
Table D. HYPOTHETICAL NUMBERS OF BIRTHS BASED  N CONSTANT 1985  ERILITY RATES
(Thousands)
Kmr       15-19    20-24     25-29     30-34     35-39     40-A4     4A-49    Tftal
1985      1,037     1,287    867       476       247       92        28        4,034
1986      1,073     1,321    899       503       251       94        29        4,170
1987      1,110     1,359    924       535       256       96        29        4,311
1988      1,147     1,403    947       568       263       98        30        4,456
1989      1,184     1,450    969       599       272        100      31        4,605
1990      1,222     1,499    992       628       284       102       31        4,758
1991      1,254     1,553     1,019    651       300        104      32        4,913
Total                                                                         31,247
Difference between the Totals in Table D and Table C -                        3,293



-54-
Conat.
Tabl.e B.    . Or .TI A           D8S AND 1291
(Thousands)
Xs"            COM                 CCO 2                COL 3
1985                4,034                4,034               0
1986                4,170                4,030               140
1987                4,311                4,021               290
1988                4,456                4,006               450
1989                4,605                3,985               620
1990                4,758                3,957               801
1991                4,913                3,921               992
Total
(1985-91)           31,247              27,954               3,293
Column 1 - Hypothetical annual number of births based on constant 1985 age-specific
fertility rates.
Column 2 - Actual annual number of births.
Column 3 - Number of births averted.



