Document of
The World Bank
]FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
-Repit No. P-4206-Z
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 75.4 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
THIRD POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
December 24, 1985
Tsdoeemee.t bu a rIbledu disrbaMm umd may be mod by redpimts may in the paedurinne .1
Ite eidm         . 'f  e_mtm  am   .therwI  be dsamd widbut Wedi B_mk .



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On October 31, 1985 the official exchange rate was set at Tk 29.97
buying and Tk 30.03 selling per US dollar.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPR                     Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DDS                     Drug and Dietary Supplement
EEU                     External Evaluation Unit
P                       'Family Planning
FWA                     Family Welfare Assistant
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
EA                      Health Assistant
ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
INK                     Infant Mortality Rate
IUD                     Intra-Uterine Device
LCB                     Local Competitive Bidding
NCR                     Maternal-Child Health
NIS                     Management Information System
1DHPC                   Ministry of Health and Population Control
NCPC                    National Council for Population Control
NGO                     Non-Governmental Organization
NIPORT                  National Institute for Population Research
and Training
NSCPR.                  National Steering Committee for Population Research
ORS                     Oral Rehydration Salts
ORT                     Oral Rehydration Therapy
PCW                     Population Control Ving, Ministry of Health
and Population Control
PIACT                   Program for the Introduction and Adoption
of Contraceptive Technology
TFR                     Total Fertility Rate
UHC                     Upazila Health Complex
UHFWC                   Union Health and Family Welfare Center
UNFPA                   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIRD POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:            SDR 75.4 million (US$78.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Proiect            The primary objective of the project would be to reduce
Description:      fertility and infant and maternal mortality by providing
support to the Government's family planning and maternal-
child health (MCH) program during the Third Five-Year Plan
period (1985-90). In addition, the project would assist
efforts to stimulate additional demand for family planning
and to extend essential and affordable health care to
Bangladesh-s rural population. The project, which would
continue support to activities begun under the first and
second population projects (Credits 533-BD and 921-BD),
would consist of seven components; (i) expansion and
consolidation of family planning service delivery;
(ii) implementation of NCR programs; (iii) strengthening
of communications and public education; (iv) assistance to
women's programs; (v) support to non-government organiza-
tions and innovative activities; (vi) research and
evaluation; and (vii) project management support.
Proiect Risks:     The major risks faced by the project relate to the
strength of the Government's determination to improve the
management and supervision of family planning and MCF
service delivery; to strengthen and expand the national
MCR program; to carry out specific institutional develop-
ment efforts at the National Institute for Population
Research and Training and for the womenus programs; to
improve motivation of family planning! NCR field workers;
and to maintain a stable organizational structure in the
Kinistry of Health and Population Control. Progress in
the implementation of improvements in each of these areas
would be carefully monitored through an annual
Government-IDA- Cofinancier review of the project and
through interim progress reports which would be prepared
by the Government.
| This doment has a resticed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their officidl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Proiect Costs; La
Local     Foreign      Total
---US$ million
PP/MCR Service Delivery         94.4        53.0      147.4
MCH Program                      3.0         0.3        3.3 /a
Communications                   8.2         0.8         9.0
Women's Program                  13.7        1.2        14.9
NGO & Innovative Program         9.0          -          9.0
Evaluation & Research             2.3        0.6         2.9
Project Nanagement Support        1.6        0.1         1.7
Total Base Costs          132.2        56.0      188.2 La
Physical Contingencies           3.0         1.5        4.5
Price Contingencies             11.2         9.9       21.1
14.2       11.4        25.6
Total Project Costs       146.4        67.4      213.8 /a
Duties and Taxes                                       14.6
Total Projects Costs, Net                             199.2 La
of Duties and Taxes
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreizu      Total
-uS$ million     -
IDA                            48.3         29.7      78.0
Australia                       3.4          3.8.      7.2
Canada                         22.1          1.4      23.5
Federal Republic of Germany   13.3          15.4      28.7
The Netherlands                 3.9          2.2       6.1
Norway                         14.3          9.3      23.6
United Kingdom                  9.0          1.3      10.3
Government of Bangladesb       17.5          4.3      21.8
Total                    131.8         67.4     199.2
/aL  Does not include US$9.7 million of support to the NCR program to be
provided by UNICEF outside the project.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA PY             FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92
Annual              8.7  15.6  19.3  19.5  10.1   4.8
Cumulative          8.7  24.3  43.6  63.1  73.2  78.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not Applicable
ADDraisal Report: Bangladesh: Report No. 5485-BD, dated December 11, 1985.
Bap: IBRD 18783r



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TME EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
THIRD POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 75.4 mil-
lion (US$78.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Third Population and Family Health Project.  Parallel financing of US$99.4
million equivalent would be provided by the Governments of Australia (US$7.2
million equivalent), Canada (US$23.5 million equivalent), the Federal
Republic of Germany (US$28.7 million equivalent), the Netherlands (US$6.1
million equivalent), Norway (US$23.6 million equivalent), and the United
Kingdom (US$10.3 million -.quivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic and Social
Development Prospects," (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
videspread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains heavily dependent
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account fo only a negligible part of investment (which has
averaged about 16% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in recent years). Export
earnings cover less than 30% of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods
accounting for about 60% of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about
15% of GDP is financed by workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more
than 5% of GDP in FY83, before declining significantly during the past two



-2-
years, and by foreign assistance equivalent to about 10% of GDP per annum.
The capacity to finance imports can be sharply affected by external factors
that are beyond the control of the Government; the effect of such adverse
factors on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary
revenues on import duties and sales taxes, which together account for about
60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s, Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6% per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disrupted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30%, due to declining prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to increases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation
of aid receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6X in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production folloving a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined and many
industries were freed from investment sanctions. Imports were liberalized by
increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and by
eliminating some quantitative restrictions. By the end of FY83, the balance
of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in the
terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows, as
well as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial depreciation in the
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of
imports resulting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth, which recovered
to only about 3X in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and



-3-
increased inputs led to a 3-4Z growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remaiLed depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2%.
7.      Economic performance in FY84 and FY85 was seriously affected by a
series of damaging floods during 1984 whose intensity was comparable to the
devastating floods of 1974. Successive rice crops were hit causing net
foodgrain losses of over 0.5 million tons. Due to investments in more dis-
persed food storage facilities, the improved efficiency of the Public Food
Distribution System, and the Government's large-scale foodgrain procurements
abroad, a famine was averted. Even though the immediate food crisis has
passed, the impact of the floods is reflected in lower agricultural growth
rates of around 2.4% in FY84 and 3.0% in FY85. The cyclone and tidal bore
disaster in May 1985 caused extensive loss of life and property along the
southern coast and islands of Bangladesh; the effect on food production was,
hovever, limited, although loss of agricultural livestock was considerable.
8.      In the nonagricultural sectors there was in FY84 a slow, but
gradually accelerating, recovery. Industry, in particular, rebounded sharply
from the weak performance of the preceding year. This was due to a combina-
tion of factors including further liberalization and privatization measures
following the promulgation of the Government's New Industrial Policy; easier
access to imports during a period of less restricted foreign exchange
resources; increased non-traditional industrial exports (especially ready-
made garments); and increased demand generated by a sharp expansion of
private credit (paragraph 11). Therefore, despite the severe setbacks in
agriculture, the improvements in industry still led to a GDP growth of around
3.5% for FY84. In FY85, preliminary Government estimates would suggest that
industrial growth was only about 3Z; on the other hand, the recovery of
growth in the trade and transport sectors, helped maintain the rate of growth
in F85 at about the FY84 level.
9.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85 Bud2etss
rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Farther modest tax and
pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation. In FY85, tax
revenues benefitted from higher imports. A substantial budget deficit was
avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in development expenditures con-
pared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the Annual Development
Programme expenditures occurred during FY85. Such shortfalls arise partly
from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but are also
attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as a result
of implementation constraints.
10.     In its FY86 BudRet. the Government took further domestic resource
mobilization measures which, together with additional revenue measures intro-
duced later in the fiscal year, are estimated to yield in excess of Tk 2
billion in FY86, equivalent to 0.4% of GDP. As a result, the budget revenue



-4-
to GDP ratio is projected to rise from 8.9% in FY85 to 9.5% in FY86. In
addition the Government has enacted a series of significant pricing
adjustments, including increases in natural gas prices averaging 20%, in the
prices of fertilizer averaging 9%, and in power rates averaging 18%. The
Government &lso announced its intention to reduce food subsidies by Tk 600
million in FY86.
11.     During 1983 and 1984, the Government permitted a rapid expansion in
domestic credit in an effort to stimulate economic recovery and, by means of
liberal rural credit, to mitigate the effects of the 1984 floods. Domestic
prices have, nevertheless, remained relatively stable, although the rate of
inflation increased from about 12Z in FY84 to about 13% in FY85. In January
1985, the Government took a series of strong measures to limit the growth of
liquidity, including increases in interest rates and quantitative restric-
tions on the growth of domestic credit. These measures were instrumental in
moderating significantly the growth of credit during the second half of FY85.
From December 1984 to June 1985, the annual rate of private credit expansion
slowed to 12% compared with 40% in FY85 and 60% in FY84. The Bangladesh Bank
h:s successfully continued to restrain domestic credit expansion in FY86.
12.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 20%, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as well as a major boost in
non-traditional exports, while imports remained closc to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, gross foreign
exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of US$558 million, equivalent
to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85 there was a deterioration
in the balance of payments. Part of the growing pressure on the balance of
payments arose from the additional foodgrain imports necessitated by the
severe 1984 floods. Non-food imports also increased significantly, partly as
a result of the continued recovery in the non-agricultural sectors stimulated
by tbe rapid expansion in domestic credit. Workers" remittances also
declined further and although exports increased somewhat over FY84 levels,
external reserves fell by about US$141 million in FY85. The decline in
reserves would have been even more marked had not a substantial portion
(about Us$190 million) of foodgrain imports been purch;sed on credit.
13.     Bangladesh's balance of payments will be under very considerable
pressure during FY86 and FY87. Merchandise export earnings are unlikely to
exceed significantly the FY85 level in nominal terms.  Even significant gains
in non-traditional exports, in particular garments, as well as in leather are
estimated to no more than offset the expected losses in earnings from export
of jute and jute products due to the sharp decliue in international price.
The inflow of workers' remittances is also unlikely to recover fully to their
former levels, although some increase is expected in FY85 over FY84 levels.
The situation will be further aggravated by the substantial loan repayments
falling due during FY86 and FY87 for recent purchases of foodgrain imports on
deferred terms. Bangladesh also has substantial repurchase ob'ligations due



-5-
to the IMF in FY86 and FY87. The critical state of the country's external
payments situation is demonstrated by the further decline of official gross
reserves during the first quarter of FY86 to only $265 million, or about 1.3
months of import requirements, as of end-September 1985.
14.     In view of the deterioration in the balance of payments situation in
FY85 and the unfavorable outlook for the next two years, the Government has
entered into a Standby Arrangement with the IMF in an amount of SDRs 180
million covering the period December 1985 to June 1987. The stabilization
program to be supported by the IMF Standby Arrangement focuses on mobilizing
additional domestic resources, restrained monetary and credit policies and,
through the pursuit of flexible exchange rate policies, strengthening the
competitiveness of the traded goods sector.
External Debt
15.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on exter-
nal public medium and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14% in
FY85 and a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining thereafter. However,
when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio in FY85 was
about 24%, and is estimated to stay at about this level during FY86 and FY87.
The debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, as food debts are
repaid, to about i-% by FY90. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debc
servicing obligationa will remain modest over this period, rising from 8.5%
in FY84 to 8.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35Z in
FY86.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
16.     The Government is completing preparation of its Third Five Year
Development Plan which will cover the period FY86-90. In the meantime, the
Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on the
priorities outlined in the Second Five Year Plan (FY81-85). The priority
development objectives are: (a) reducing population growth from the present
rate of 2.6% per annum; (b) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency;
(c) eliminating mass illiteracy; and (d) accelerating domestic enc.0y
development. With appropriate producer incentives, adequate resources to
provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role for the private sector
in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs,
foodarain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade. Given
Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%), the emphasis on primary education is
well founded; under the Second Plan the objective of achieving universal
primary education was adopted. Prospects for acbieving the objectives of
educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be improved



-6-
by success in reducing the oopulation growth rate; this will require more
determined efforts than hitherto. The Government is taking steps, which will
be supported by the proposed project, to improve its family planning and
health services at the field level, including increasing the number of field
workers and providing them with more intensive training and supervision. The
Government also intends to expand support to maternal and child health
services.
17.     Earl. development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since petroleum imports at present absorb
about two-thirds of merchandise export earnings. The Government is already
implementing sizable investments to augment the supply of gas to meet growing
demand from the power and fertilizer sectors. The implementation of
appropriate energy conservation measures and the setting of energy prices at
economically efficient levels will also be critical to the success of the
energy development program.
18.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is functiou-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding.
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially rural
small-scale and cottage industries - so that incomes generated in one sub-
sector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
19.     As noted above, the Government'F New Industrial Policy has given a
greater role to the private sector in industrial development increased the
incentives for export industries, and liberalized the import regime.
However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development finance
institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an increasing
problem of debt arrears, and to rationalize industrial incentives. The
Government is now examining the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consultants' studies. An ongoing program
of IDA-financed studies is expected to lead to a program of action for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.
20.     In the Third Five Year Development Plan, the Government will need to
ensure that the size of the future public investment program is set at a
level consistent ith a realistic assessment of prospective external and
domestic financial resources. As external assistance will continue to be
severely constrained, there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive
domestic resource mobilization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the
level of cost recovery, reduce subsidies, and improve the financial perfor-
mance of public enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to
be broadened to reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby
improving the elasticity of the tax system.



-7--
21.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in develonment administration. There is
need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making processes. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective role in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions to the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implementa-
tion and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
22.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,382.92
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved 90 new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 24%
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
IIZ for industry; 13X for power and energy; 9% for transportation and
telecommunications; 9% for education and technical assistance; 2% for urban
infrastructure; 2Z for population control; and 30% for imports program
support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the composi-
tion of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to change
markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and five
investments have been approved to date.
23.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 16 above. IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer, and improved seeds, the development of extension
services, research programs, and rural cooperatives, the provision of
agricultural credit, and the promotion of input and output pricing policies
that allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has
also supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector
participation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's
lending program will plice increasing emphasis on agricultural diversifica-
tion through increased production of fish and forestry products.
24.     IDA's lending for power and gas investments is designed to expand the
use of natural gas in substitution for imported oil, promote conservation
measures and more efficient energy use, and eucourage further gas and oil
exploration. IDA is also financing projects to expand the country's rural
electrification system and power generation and transmission capabilities.
Recognizing the critical shortages in traditional fuels, IDA is financing
investments in forestry to increase the supply of fuelvood.



-8-
25.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas -- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technical education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen, technicians, and engineers.
26.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program, of which this project
is an integral part. With Bangladesh's urban population expected to increase
from about 16-18 million in 1985 to between 35-40 million by the year 2000,
future IDA activities will also help the Government address the problem of
providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA
is already financing water and sanitation improvements in Chittagong and
Dhaka.
27.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (paragraph 29), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
28.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
iA the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's future lend-
ing program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading existing
roads.
29.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides a sig-
nificant proportion of annual lending in the form of program credits. In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues. Due to
Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing con-
tinue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of local
currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on extermal concessionary
assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to nobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.
IDA is promoting Government policies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions.



-9-
30.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in implementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term.
31.     IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, project implementation, and aid coordination.
PART III - POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR
32.     The population of Bangladesh is about 100 million, has more than
doubled in the past 35 years, and is growing at a rate of 2.6Z per annum.
The population density, which is more than 600 people per square kilometer
(km2), is among the highest in the world. Pressure on arable land is
intense, and the number of landless, currently more than 50X of the
population, is rising. The health status of the population is low by all
conventional measures. The infant mortality rate (IMR) is 132 per 1,000 (as
compared to 94 in India and 96 in Burma) and the child mortality rate is 19
per 1,000 (India 11, Burma 12). Maternal mortality is estimated at 6 per
1,000 live births, about 100 times the rate in some developed countries.
Sixty percent of infant deaths occur in the first month of life, due mainly
to tetanus, birth trauma, prematurity, and pneumonia. Short birth intervals
also contribute to high rates of infant mortality. Diarrhea, respiratory
infections, and measles are the main causes of death for children who survive
beyond infancy. Malnutrition is a major contributor to mortality among
children, and to disease, weakness, and low productivity among adults. Per
capita food intake has decreased from 2,300 calories in 1962/63 to 1,935
calories in 1981/82. Worst affected are the rural, landless poor, whose
average calorie intake is marginal for sustaining basic functions.
Bangladesh's total fertility rate (TFR) remains high at 5.8, although it has
declined from 7.0 in 1971 as a result of a rapid increase in the use of
contraception as reflected by a rise in the contraceptive prevalence rate
(CPR) from 10 in 1975 to 24-26Z today. Sustained economic development and
significant improvement in health, social and economic conditions will be
difficult, if not impossible, to achieve without a substantial decrease in
fertility.



-10-
The National Population and Maternal-Child Health Program
33.     Policies and Objectives.  Bangladesh's program to control population
growth began three decades ago when the Government of East Pakistan adopted a
national family planning (PP) program and set up a network of FP clinics.
While the program succeeded in creating public awareness about population
issues and the use of contraception, it had little, if any, impact on fer-
tility rates. Following independence in 1971, the First Five-Year Plan of
1973 was adopted, marking the start of a comprehensive national effort to
moderate fertility. In 1976 the Government revised the plan, adopting a more
comprehensive and, it was to prove, unrealistically ambitious set of policies
and objectives which called for zero population growth by 1985. This policy
framework gave explicit recognition to the links between the level of fer-
tility and socio-economic factors such as employment, female parU;icipation in
the labor force, education, improved health, and reduction in infant and
childhood mortality. During this period, however, nascent maternal-child
health (MCR) services made very little headway. Population coiLtrol targets
were revised once again in the formulation of the Second Five-Year Plan
(1980-85) which sought to achieve zero population growth by 1990, and an
increase in the CPR to 38% by 1985. These targets were revised in mid-1982
and the current, more realistic, goal is to achieve a CPR of 38-40% by 1990
which would lead to zero population growth by around 2025. Initial MCH
targets under the Second Five-Year Plan were also unrealistic.  Program goals
of 5mmunizing 30% of children and treating 25% of malnutrition cases, as
compared to negligible immunization coverage and a 3X treatment rate of
malnutrition in 1980, were not matched by implementation strategies, and, in
practice, priority continued to be given to the population control effort.
34.     In the draft Third Five-Year Plan, the Government has emphasized the
interdependence of reduced fertility and increased child survival, and has
developed a long-term MCH strategy. The plan's targets are to reduce the IMR
to 100 per 1000 and maternal mortality to 4 per 1,000 by 1990. The basic
strategy under the plan is to increase the availability and improve the
quality of family planning and NCR services, utilizing the existing service
delivery system. Emphasis will be placed on developing the National
Institute of Population Research and Training (NIPORT), increasing the den-
sity of female field workers, and establishing Union Health and Family
Welfare Centers (UHIWCs) in at least 1,000 additional rural unions
(paragraph 51), thereby increasing the total number of UHFWCs to about 2,670,
about two-thirds of those needed to achieve the goal of complete national
coverage. Under the plan, the Government proposes to reverse the relative
neglect of MCH care through a major outreach effort to apply three major MCK
interventions: oral rehydration therapy, immunization of children under two
against six major diseases and women of child-bearing age against tetanus,
and training of traditional birth attendants in safe delivery practices.
35.     A controversial feature of the ongoing population control program has
been the system of Government payments to compensate clients, those who refer
clients, and workers who perform sterilization and insertion of intra-uterine



-11-
devices (IUDs). A recent Government-funded study by the Program for the
Introduction and Adoption of Contraceptive Technology (PIACT), an
international, non-government research organization, revealed a number of
problems with the system. These included the exclusive use of sterilizations
and IUDs as the basis for referral fees without similar compensation for the
promotion of child-spacing methods and NCR service delivery, the negative
effects of referral fees on worker follow-up of clients, and the danger that
clients will get only limited information regarding contraceptive methods and
side effects. Some donors could like to see the system abolished but
appreciate that any abrupt change would prove disruptive to the overall
population control effort. The Government has announced its intention to
continue the system of client compensation and referral payments but, in
response to the PIACT study and concerns expressed by the donors, it also
has announced its intention to broaden the system to include MCH as well as
family planning activities. In addition, the Government has carried out
measures to improve worker follow-up of sterilization clients and to ensure
that workers adequately inform clients about all available forms of con-
traception and their side-effects. Under the proposed project, the
Government would (a) by December 31, 1986, carry out a study, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, of the present system of client compensation,
worker referral and service provider fees, and community and other
incentives, including the current and future need for such payments and the
option for the modification or gradual phase out of these payments;
(b) promptly thereafter furnish to IDA for comment the findings of this
study; and (c) thereafter institute measures, to be agreed between the
Government and IDA, to improve, modify, or gradually phase out the system of
client compensation, worker referral and service provider fees, and community
and other incentives.
36.     Proatram Organization.  National policy for population control is
formulated by the National Council for Population Control (NCPC), chaired by
the President and consisting of all 12 cabinet ministers. The NCPC is
assisted by an Executive Committee headed by the Minister for Health and
Population Control. The Ministry of Health and Population ControL (COHPC)
is responsible for development, coordination, and implementation of the
national family planning and NCR program. Its structure has undergone fre-
quent changes over the past ten years, alternating between integration and
separation of health and family planning services (paragraph 41). In
April 1983, the then separate divisions for Health and Population Control
were converted into two wings under the MKHPC Secretary, with a Population
Control Wing (PCW) responsible for MCR and FP and a Health Wing responsible
for the remainder of health services. Each wing has its own Director General
and a Secretariat responsible for planning, budgeting, and monitoring, and
directorates responsible for specific operational aspects of the program
which are supported by offices at the district and upazila levels.
37.     Each of the 64 district offices is headed by a Civil Surgeon on the
health side and a Deputy Director for Family Planning from the PCW. In the
464 upazilas, health and family planning services are integrated under the
Health and Family Planning Officer who is assisted by a Family Planning



-12-
Officer and Medical Officers. In the 4,365 unions, the staffing pattern
includes an Assistant Health Inspector and a Family Planning Assistant (both
males), as vell as a Medical Assistant, a female Family Welfare Visitor, and
a Pharmacist who together are responsible for running the UEFWCB. In
addition, the Family Welfare Visitors and Medical Assistants conduct village
clinic programs. At the ward level, a male Realth Assistant (HA) from the
Health Wing and a female Family Welfare Assistant (FWA) from the Population
Control Wing deliver home outreach services. HAIFWA teams are currently
working in around 90Z of Bangladesh's 13,500 wards.
38.     UHFWCs are the first-level referral facilities and provide common NCH
interventions, limited curative care, and family planning services including
insertion of IUDs by Family Welfare Visitors and sterilization by visiting
doctors. Each of the approximately 1,600 operational UHFWCs serves an
average population of 22,000. There is also a network of dispensaries at the
union level, some of which gradually are being converted to UHEWCs. Low
utilization has posed a problem for many UHFWCs. While the situation is
improving, few URFWCs have achieved the average case loads of 1,500 recorded
morthly by several pilot projects. The main reasons for low utilization have
been lack of drugs, slow posting of residential staff, aud poor staff
supervision. The posting of residential medical assistants and family wel-
fare visitors has begun to improve URFWC utilization. At the next referral
level are Upazila Health Complexes (UHC), 31-bed facilities built to cover a
population of about 200,000. Currently, there are 337 URCs, three-quarters
of the number needed. District and subdivisional facilities represent the
two final steps in the referral system; these include hospitals and about 93
Maternity and Child Welfare Centers.
39.     In addition to the MOHPC, seven other ministries serve as channels
for the dissemination of FP information and, in some cases, provision of
contraceptive services. The Population Planning Section of the Planning
Commission assists in the formulation of proposals for population control,
reviews budgetary allocations for the population control program, and works
to ensure that the country's overall development program reflects national
population policy goals. It is also responsible for evaluation of key
population program activities through an External Evaluation Unit (EEU).
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) have been directly involved in popula-
tion control activities for at least a decade, and more than 100 are now
active in the program.   Currently, NGOs work mostly in urban areas, although
a few organizations, such as the Swanirvar family planning project, are
active in rural areas. NGOs account for about 37Z of contraception by modern
methods in Bangladesh.
40.     TraininR.  Training for the national population control program is
nainly organized and managed by NIPORT which functions as part of MOEPC and
is headed by a Director General who reports to the Additional Secretary, PCW.
NIPORT administers 12 Family Welfare Visitor Training Institutes and 20
Regional Training Centers which are responsible for the training of all
Health Wing and Population Control Wing field workers and supervisors.
NIPORT also provides technical supervision and support for the training of



-13-
medical personnel in sterilization techniques by the Bangladesh Association
for Voluntary Sterilization and Model Family Planning Clinics at medical
colleges.
41.    Program Constraints.  The legacy of organizational changes revolving
around the question of functional integration of family planning and NCR
services, the past emphasis on family planning at the expense of MCH, and
poor coordination between health and FP staff have hampered the development
of an effective delivery system. Coordination between the health and popula-
tion control sides of MOHPC began to improve with the restructuring in mid-
1983 (paragraph 36).  During the past two years, a number of Govern ent
initiatives have been taken to further the integration including the estab-
lishment of a high-level steering committee at headquarters (involving both
wings) to direct the maternal-child health program and the setting up of a
joint manpower development committee. In the field, the Government has
sought to define work responsibilities more clearly and to unify management
under the Upazila Health and Family Planning Officer. Current plans call for
increased joint training of MCR and FP staff, strengthened supervision, and
revision of work routines to ensure complementarity rather than competition.
In this way the Government is attempting to move toward a more fully inter-
grated system, while avoiding the disruption of program performance which has
marked previous reorganizations.   However, such Government efforts cannot
prevent temporary declines in the performance of the FP program. After two
years of record increases, the level of contraceptive use (as measured in
couple-years of protection) for January-August 1985 showed a 20Z decline
compared to the same period in 1984. This decrease is largely attributable
to resistance on the part of family planning officers to orders placing them
under the administrative control of the Upazila Health and Family Planning
Officer. The Government has taken steps to accommodate the concerns of
family planning officers and the couple-years of protection level showed a
modest upswing during September 1985.
42.     Other fundamental and continuing constraints on implementation are
poor supervision, inadequate field staff density, and insufficient training.
Supervision at the central and district levels is limited. The Director
General, PCW, is currently responsible for 64 districts with district Deputy
Directors for Family Planning reporting directly to him. This predominantly
non-medical staff is able to offer little technical support in the areas of
clinical contraception and NCR care. Supervisors lack mobility and tend to
emphasize inspection rather than provision of support to field staff. FWA
responsibility for total ward coverage has become increasingly difficult as
the average ward population has grown from 6,000 to 7,400 since 1976 and
their jobs have been broadened to include essential MCR services. FWA visits
to each household are now at least three months apart, compared with a recomr-
mended frequency of once a month.  Because of organizational and staff
problems, NIPORT has not sufficiently exercised its role in identifying
training needs, curriculum development, trainer training, preparation of
training materials, evaluation of training, and development of management
training courses. There is also a lack of coordination among the major
agencies participating in the dissemination of FPIMCH information, as well as
a lack of reinforcement of the mass media campaigns with face-to-face follow-
up.



-14-
43.     A different set of constraints has hindered development of rural
women's programs whicb are managed by ministries other than MO9HPC and are
designed to increase contraceptive use and generate income for participating
women through the production of marketable goods. These groups involve about
110,000 women in income-generating activities and have recruited a cumulative
total of about 230,000 FP acceptors. Contraceptive acceptance by members of
these organizations is about twice the national average. However, inadequate
quality control and marketing arrangements for goods produced by these women
persist, mainly because budgetary cuts during the Second Five-Year Plan
blocked the setting up of a Marketing and Design Cell originally approved by
the Planning Commission. Budgetary cuts also reduced the nuaber of
managerial staff for the women's programs. An absence of credit facilities
for investment capital has limited development to those enterprises that
could be financed by personal savings or income.
44.     NGOs active in the population field face several constraints includ-
ing cumbersome Government procedures for approval of external funding. The
Government, at the urging of donors, is moving to streamline these processes.
USAID already has authorization to provide direct funding to approved NGOs
and the United Kingdom's Overseas Development Administration, which is
expected to finance the NGO subcomponent of the proposed third project,
intends to follow a similar approach. In addition, inadequately articulated
objectives and screening mechanisms within MOEPC have hampered direct
Government support to NGOs. Hovever, under the proposed third project a work
plan revising MOHPC screening procedures and setting up a secretariat for the
expeditious handling of NGO applications would be prepared (paragraph 55).
45.     Government Expenditures.  Government expenditures (capital plus
recurrent) for population and health have risen from 5.3% to 5.9% of total
expenditures over the past five years. This level compares well with
Pakistan in 1980 (3.9M), and Nepal in 1982 (4.5%), and with countries of
similar per capita income in Africa. The total budget of the MOHPC grew from
about US$18.3 million equivalent in 1974/5 to US$118.8 million equivalent
in 1983/4. The average increase in real terms over the five-year period
ending 1983/4 was about 4.752.
Role of External Assistance
46.     Foreign aid for FP/MCH over the Second Five-Year Plan totaled about
US$285 million which constituted about 43% of the MNOPC budget during this
period. Major donors included the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), which has been the primary financier of the Government's
voluntary sterilization and IUD program and has provided substantial support
for NG0s; the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFA), which
has been involved primarily in the delivery of FPIMCH services, and the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), which has been involved in the
provision of MCH services. IDA and other donors have assisted the
Government's population efforts for ten years through two projects. The
Fi-st Population Proiect (Credit 533-BD) became effective on September 25,



-15-
1975, and closed, after three one-year extensions, in December 1982. Total
costs were US$45.7 million with an IDA credit of US$15.0 million and combined
cofinancing of US$25.4 million from Australia, Canada, the Federal Republic
of Germany, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. A report by the
Operations Evaluation Department is under preparation. A project completion
report, issued in September 1984, concluded that the project assisted in
expanding the population program at a time when service availability was
limited, field structure was non-existent, field staff were not motivated,
and organizational capability was weak. The report indicated considerable
progress in improving service quality, worker productivity, and progr3m
management, while recognizing the need for continuing improvement in each of
these areas. The Second PopuLation and Family Health Proiect (Credit
921-BD)- was cofinanced by six bilateral donors: Australia, Canada, the
Federal Republic of Germany, thIe Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. Total
project costs were estimated at US$110.0 million, of which US$32.0 million
was contributed by IDA. The project consisted of six major components:
(i) NCH/FP service delivery; (ii) training; (iii) information, education, and
motivation; (iv) research and evaluation; (v) private sector and innovative
activities, and (vi) project management support. The project contributed
significantly to increased contraceptive prevalence through development of
both the physical and human infrastructure for rural delivery of FP/NCH
services and information and education activities. During the course of the
second project, underlying managerial weaknesses (paragraph 42), affecting
staff productivity and the effective utilization of physical resources,
became increasingly clear. The project substantially achieved its planned
objectives in terms of construction, training, and communications. However,
a late start of the construction program and the slow preparation of
withdrawal applications led to a two-year extension of the closing date to
Decomber 31, 1985. The proposed third project is designed to address the
administrative and operational issues identified during implementation of the
second project.
47.     It is difficult to isolate the impact of donor-financed projects
within the Government's overall family planning program. In addition, a
scarcity of reliable demographic data impedes efforts to determine changes in
fertility and mortality rates. Nonetheless, the CPR appears virtually to
have doubled since 1979 to over 24Z, and around 95Z of eligible couples now
know at least two modern contraceptive methods. Couple-years of contracep-
tive protection have increased steadily; the average increase 1980-84 is
almost double that of 1976-80. Around 40% of women in the mothers' clubs and
women's cooperatives have accepted family planning, which is well above
national averages. It is not yet possible to attribute any change in mor-
tality rates to the limited MCH coverage achieved to date.  However, reduced
fertility and longer birth intervals promoted through FP activities have a
positive impact on the health, and ultimately the survival rate, of both
mothers and children.



-16-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.     The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
IDA. It was appraised in October 1984 by IDA, and representatives of
Australia, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Norway,
Sweden, the United Kingdom, UNICEF, UNFPA, and USAID. A timetable of key
events relating to the project and special conditions of the credit are
listed in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in September 1985.
The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delegation led by
Mr. A.B.M. Ghulam Mostafa, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Population
Control.
Proiect Obiectives
49.     The primary objective of the project, which would incorporate the
assistance of most external donors to the Government's FP/HCR program over
the next five years, would be to reduce fertility and infant and maternal
mortality. In addition, the project would assist efforts to stimulate addi-
tional demand for family planning and to extend essential and affordable
health care to Bangladesh's rural population. To accomplish these longer-
term objectives the project would focus on improving the Government's
capacity to implement its FP/NCR program by strengthening the management and
supervision of the service delivery system and broadening MCR activities
through programs of immunization, diarrhea management, and safer childbirth.
Wider and more effective FP/MCH service coverage of rural areas would be
accomplished through improvements in field worker training aud the provision
of additional field workers, UHFWCs, medicines, medical supplies, and
equipment. The project would also expand public education programs to
increase the demand for family planning. It would continue and expand sup-
port for women's vocational training and cooperative programs which promote
acceptance of family planning and support NGOs which provide family planning
services, especially in rural areas. The project would strengthen M0EPC's
management information system and would support research concerning the
performance of family planning and health programs and experimentation with
innovative approaches to FP/MCR issues.
Proiect Description
50.     The project, which would continue support to activities begun under
the first and second proiects, would consist of seven components: (i) FP/XCR
service delivery; (ii) NC4  programs; (iii) communications/public education;
(iv).women-s programs; (v) NGO and innovative activities; (vi) research and
evaluation; and (vii) project management support.
51.     FP/MCH Service Deliverv:  This component would strengthen management
and supervision; upgrade and expand in-service training for field workers and
supervisors; increase the density of female field workers; provide an ade-
quate and assured supply of drugs, medicines, and medical supplies for NCH
and clinical contraceptive activities; and expand the network of UHFWCs. To



-17-
improve supervision and management, the project would finance the estab-
liskment of a four-person national Supervision Directorate under the Director
General, PCW, and 464 female supervisory posts of Senior Family Welfare
Visitors, one per upazila. It would finance a Management Development Unit,
including four expatriates and four counterparts, to provide long-term tech-
nical assistance and to facilitate field implementation of service delivery.
The existing group of four expatriate and counterpart advisors, who oversee
sterilization quality, would continue their work, having been renamed the
Clinical Contraceptive Surveillance Team and reporting directly to the
Director General, PCW. The team would be strengthened through the addition
of one expatriate and four counterpart nurses. The team would also oversee a
new cadre of district-level medical officers wbo would supervise clinical
contraceptive and MCH activities that the Government would finance in con-
junction with the project. The project would continue and expand client
satisfaction surveys to help monitor the clinical contraception program and
identify problems requiring corrective action. One such survey would take
place in each of the first four years of the project. The terms of reference
and timing of these annual surveys would be satisfactory to IDA. The project
would improve the mobility of workers and supervisors by providing four-wheel
drive vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles. About 6,000 person-months of
training for staff at and below the district level and 275 person-months of
trainer training would be financed yearly through the project's effort to
strengthen NIPORT. The project would also finance the creatiou of around
10,000 new FWA posts and would finance the salaries of 4,500 FWAs, one third
of the existing cadre. An FWA/population ratio of 1:4,000, compared to the
current ratio of 1:7,400, would be achieved by June 30, 1990. The project
would also provide a regular supply of medications for NCR care at UHF Cs and
would improve the quantity and flow of these medications to other service
delivery facilities. To extend the service delivery system further, the
project would finance the renovation, furnishing, and equipping of 73 UHFWCs,
and const-ruction of up to 1,000 new UHFWCs. The project would finance the
maintenance of UEFWCs and other buildings constructed under this and the two
previous IDA-aided population and health projects.
52.     Maternal and Child Health Care.  The project would complement UNICEF
support for expansion of the three key activities of the Government's MCR
program: immunization, diarrhea management, and improved birtb practices.
The immunization program would focus on the prevention of diphtheria,
pertussis, tetanus, measles, polio, and tuberculosis among children, and
tetanus among women of child-bearing age. By March 31, 1986, the Government
would prepare and, thereafter, implement a program satisfactory to IDA for
increasing the range and coverage of child immunization on a national basis
and for providing tetanus toxoid immunization to women of reproductive age.
The diarrhea management effort would focus on the production, distribution,
and use of oral rehydration salts (ORS) and would supplement an ongoing
program being conducted by the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (a
Swiss-aided voluntary organization) to educate the public in the use of oral
rehydration therapy (ORT). Improvement of birth practices would take place
through a national training and supervision program for 30,000 traditional
birth attendants. Coupled with earlier UNICEF training of traditional birth



-18-
attendants, the project would ensure that by 1990 at least one trained atten-
dant would be available in more than 80Z of Bangladesh's 68,000 villages.
Both initial and refresher training would take place, spread over 24 months
on a part-time basis. The curriculum would include safe delivery practices,
risk assessment and referral, ante and post natal care, family planning, ORT,
and immunizations. The project would finance vehicles and staff salaries for
all three MCH interventions, operating costs for ORS production, traditional
birth attendant training, and short-term training through NIPORT of 2,000
Family Welfare Visitors who would train traditional birth attendants.
53.     Communications/Public Education.  Communications/public education
activities would be targeted towards contraceptive users, to encourage con-
tinuation or a shift to more effective methods; young adults, to delay
marriage; young couples, to space and limit births; and community leaders, to
support population control efforts. The component also would include mes-
sages concerning immunization programs, ante-natal care, and oral rehydration
campaigns. Four agencies would implement the component. The Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting through Bangladesh Radio would continue to
produce and broadcast daily radio programming and would produce radio
programs based on guidelines provided by MOHPC's Information, Education, and
Motivation Unit.  Bangladesh TV would produce and broadcast two daily and two
fortnightly TV programs in prime time, totaling four hours of viewing time
monthly. MOHPC's Information, Education, and Motivation Unit would organize
film shows, folksong performances, orientation workshops for religious
leaders, union council chairmen and youth leaders, FP motivational meetings,
late marriage campaigns, and fortnightly radio programs. The Health
Education Bureau of MOHPC would organize diarrhea management campaigns and
health education workshops for service delivery personnel, community leaders,
and volunteers. Swanirvar, a local NGO, would hold workshops on population
awareness and FP motivation for national and local leaders, provide short-
term training for 700,000 of its members, and provide motivational awards to
selected communities. The project would finance vehicles, audio-visual and
office equipment, furniture, training and educational materials, community
surveys and awards, staff salaries, and operating costs.
54.     Women's Programs.  The project would further strengthen women's
cooperatives, mothers' centers, and women's vocational training programs
assisted under the two earlier IDA population and health projects. These
programs are part of the Government-s long-term strategy to improve the
status of women and afford beneficiaries the opportunity to participate in
income-generating activities involving the production of marketable goods.
Support would continue to concentrate on improving the income and leadership
skills of women while motivating them to want smaller families and adopt
family planning. Under the project, women's cooperatives would seek to
triple present membership from 67,000 to 208,000 by 1990, to double member
incomes to US$93 yearly, and to reach a 50% contraceptive use rate among
members. This would be accomplished by expanding the 1,700 existing coopera-
tive societies in 100 upazilas to 3,200, improving members' access to credit,
and expanding training for members in marketable skills, literacy, health and
nutrition education, and family planning motivation. Membership in mothers'



-1 9-
centers would triple to 290,000 women of child-bearing age by 1990. Through
these centers, efforts vould be made to recruit around 370,000 new family
planning acceptors and to raise average annual incomes per member by 50% to
US$60. Coverage goals would be achieved by combined intensification of the
program in 40 upazilas where it now operates and expansion to 40 additional
upazilas. Income objectives would be realized by improved training,
production, marketing, and access to credit. Under the project, an addi-
tional 19,800 women would receive training through the women's vocational
training Progran which would seek to raise beneficiary incomes to US$6
monthly and recruit an additional 400,000 family planning acceptors. These
goals would be achieved by raising the quality and intensity of training of
both trade instructors and trainees, making production centers more market-
oriented and profitable, and inaugurating trainee access to credit through
commercial banking channels. By June 30, 1986, the Government would prepare
and furnish to IDA, and thereafter qarry out, a detailed strategy, program
design, budget, and plan of action satisfactory to IDA, for each of the above
women's programs.
55.     Non-Governmental Organizations and Innovative Programs.  The project
would provide increased support to population-related programs of voluntary
agencies, with an emphasis on the development of rural activities. By
June 30, 1986, the Government would prepare and submit to IDA for comment a
strategy for the utilization of NGOs in the lP/MCH program to be implemented
during the project period, including criteria for determining INGO eligibility
and the types of NGO projects suitable for Government support, and procedures
for processing, monitoring, and evaluating proposals and projects.
Innovative Programs under the project would be aimed at assisting the
Government in designing and testing new approaches to generating additional
demand for family planning and in developing cost-effective approaches to
basic NCH problems. Interventions to generate additional demand for family
planning which have been proposed for testing include savings bond programs
for families who limit their numbers of children and bonuses for delayed
marriages, longer birth intervals, and continuation rather than only adoption
of contraception. The project would finance MCH/health sector analysis,
including epidemiological studies, focusing initially on infant and child
diseases, to help prioritize health care needs within the context of health
funding and expenditure patterns, and would provide for six man-months each
of foreign and local technical assistance to carry out, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, a financial analysis and study of the health
sector. This study would, inter alia. separate MOHPC budget allocations and
expenditures into investment and recurrent cost categories, analyze the
recurrent cost implications of the MOEPC investment plan, review the dis-
tribution of expenditures between different tiers and types of service and
make recommendations for reallocation of expenditure to increase cost-
effectiveness, and review the potential for cost recovery through user char-
ges for different services. By March 31, 1987, the Government would furnish
to IDA the findings and recommendations of this study and thereafter imple-
ment recommendations of the study as agreed with IDA. In addition, the
project would support the further development of the national MCH strategy,
including development and pilot-testing of a nutrition intervention program



-20-
for pre-school children and, if feasible, pregnant vomen. Funds would also
be provided to design and test the family planning/MCH impact of providing
field vorkers with a limited package of simple remedies for common disorders.
The project would also support the preparation of plans for the fourth phase
of the FP/MCH program.
56.     Evaluation and Research.  The project would continue to support and
strengthen both the Management Informatiou System (MIS) for monitoring of
service delivery outputs and the External Evaluation Unit (EEU) for impact
and process evaluation. MIS would continue to provide monthly reports on
contraceptive acceptance and PCW projects and, by December 31, 1986, the
Government would prepare and execute a work plan satisfactory to IDA for the
incorporation of MCH indicators into the reporting system. EEU would con-
tinue to provide independent evaluations of the national FP/MCH program for
the Planning Commission. The project would provide for continued improvement
in EEU performance through foreign short-term training of two staff members
during each of the project's first three years. A deputy chief and an assis-
tant chief for computer applications would be added to the EEU staff and the
existing full-time expatriate post of advisor would be continued for the
project period. During the p-oject period, the Government would maintain and
operate the National Steering Committee for Population Research (NSCPR) as a
national mechanism to set priorities for and encourage and support
population-related research and to promote dissemination of research findings
and closer coordination among agencies involved in population research and
evaluation. The Research Wing of NIPORT would act as secretariat to the
NSCPR and would screen research proposals for NSCPR funding, assist in shap-
ing the most promising proposals, and monitor the progress of projects
approved by NSCPR to receive funding from an initial research fund which the
project would finance. Additionally, the Research Wing would contract
locally for national contraceptive prevalence surveys to be carried out
biannually under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
57.     Project Manazement Support.  The project would provide continued
support to the Project Finance Cell in the MOEPC's PCW to facilitate the flow
of foreign aid, and to a small procurement unit to be set up under the
Director General, PCW. This unit would consist of two professionals and
support staff within the PCW and would facilitate the procurement of project-
related supplies and equipment. The project would continue to support the
Population Program Office in the Bank's Resident Mission to coordinate
cofinancier assistance. This office, which has been staffed by an expatriate
population specialist and a Bangladeshi senior assistant, would be expanded
to include an expatriate MCH specialist.
Implementation
58.     The project would be implemented over five years.  Most of the
implementation arrangements under the second project would continue under
the third project. The MOEPC would manage service delivery activities
including training, and is adequately staffed for this purpose. The Office
of the Director General/PCW, would post and supervise FWAs, Family Welfare



-21-
Visitors, Medical Officers for NCR care, the Supervisory Directorate, the
Clinical Contraception Surveillance Team, and the Management Development
Unit. The Director General's logistics staff and procurement unit would be
responsible for procurement, distribution, and control of project-financed
vehicles, drugs, equipment, and supplies for the FP/MCH program. Expatriate
advisors from UNFPA, USAID, and the Canadian International Development Agency
would assist in logistical implementation. Project-financed training for
MOHPC staff would be organized and managed by NIPORT with the assistance of
three full-time expatriate advisors. The Government would maintain and
operate a Management Advisory Co ittee to guide NIPORT's overall institu-
tionsl development. The Committee, which would meet quarterly and inform IDA
of its findings, would be comprised of the Secretary, MOEPC, a Planning
Co,mission Representative, and the Director General of NIPORT.
Responsibility for organization and management of the project-funded MCH
program would be shared jointly by the MOEPC Health Wing and Population
Control Wing through a coordinating committee reporting directly to the
Secretary, MOHPC. The UHFWC construction program would continue to be
managed by the Construction Management Cell, MOHPC. The Government would
employ local consultants to provide overall supervision of the construction
program and report monthly to the Chief Engineer of the Construction
Management Cell, MOHPC. Family planning communications activities -would be
organized and managed by the Information, Education and Motivation Unit of
MOHPC, headed by a Director reporting to the Director General, PCW.  The
Health Education Bureau of the MOHPC Health Wing would manage and implement
campaigns promoting immunization and home-based diarrhea management. A
Communications Steering Committee chaired by the MOHPC Secretary would review
the annual work plans and coordinate implementation with the help of
associated district, upazila, and union committees. Steering committee
membership would include representatives of each communications implementing
agency, NGOs, and the three major womenus programs. Women's programs under
the project would be organized and managed as follows: (a) women's coopera-
tives by the Bangladesh Rural Development Board of the Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development; (b) mothers' centers by the Office of the
Director General, Social Welfare, Ministry of Social Welfare and Iomen's
Affairs; and (c) women's vocational training by the Office of the Director,
Women's Affairs, Ministry of Social Welfare and Women's Affairs.
Coordination among the women's programs and with MOHPC would take place
initially through the continued operation of the inter-ministerial committee
headed by the Secretary, MOHPC. This arrangement would be reviewed as part
of the development of the comprehensive strategy for women's programs
(paragraph 54). The MIS would continue to be managed by a director and staff
under the Director General, PCW. Evaluation activities would be organized
and managed by EEU.
59.    The Government would, by March 31, 1986, establish a system, satis-
factory to IDA, for an annual Government-IDA-cofinancier review of the
project. The reviews would assess the qualitative and quantitative perfor-
mance of the program as a whole and of each major project activity. Annual
reports from the Clinical Contraception Surveillance Team, the Supervision
Directorate, the Management Development Unit, NIPORT, the Construction



-22-
Management Cell, the three women's programs, and the comunications,
evaluation, and management information systems would be prepared in a
mutually agreeable format and furnished to participants at least four weeks
before the annual review. Specific terms of reference for each annual review
would be worked out among the cofinanciers, IDA, and the Government not later
than six morths before the review date.  In addition, by June 30 of each
year, the Government would provide IDA and cofinanciers with an interim
progress report on physical and financial implementation of each project
component for the six-month period ending April 30 in a format reflecting the
approved budget and work plan for that fiscal year.
Project Costs
60.     Total project costs are estimated at US$213.8 million equivalent
including contingencies, of which US$67.4 million are foreign costs and
US$14.6 million are duties and taxes. Physical contingencies are estimated
at 10% of base costs for civil works and 5% for drug and dietary supplement
(DDS) kits and spares. Price contingencies are based on annual escalation
rates of 6.3% for FY86, 7.8Z for FY87, and 8Z for FY88-FY90 for foreign
costs, and 12Z for local costs for FY86, and 11Z for local costs of construc-
tion and 10% of local costs of other goods and services thereafter.
Proiect Financinsk
61.     An IDA credit of US$78.0 million equivalent would finance about 39%
of total project costs net of duties and taxes. The IDA credit would include
US$47.1 million equivalent in local cost financing (UHFNC construction and
furniture, US$26.0 million; medical and surgical supplies, US$15.5 million;
innovative activities, US$5.0 million; contraceptive prevalence surveys,
US$0.4 million; and the supervision directorate, US$0.2 million). Six other
donors would provide grants for the project totaling US$99.4 million
equivalent, or 50% of total project costs net of duties and taxes, as
follows: Australia, US$7.2 million; Canada, US$23.5 million; the Federal
iepublic of Germany, US$28.7 million; the Netherlands, US$6.1 million;
Norway, US$23.6 million; and the United Kingdom, US$10.3 million. While not
participating as a formal cofinancing agency, UNICEF would finance a large
share of the MCH component through a grant of US$9.7 million equivalent
outside the project. (The United States and Sweden, which participated in
the appraisal mission, subsequently decided not to participate as cofinan-
ciers of the proposed project. USAID will continue its substantial funding
of family planning activities on a bi-lateral basis. Sweden intends to
remain active in the sector by financing selected primary health care
activities and the training of medical personnel.) The Government of
Bangladesh would finance US$36.4 million equivalent of total project costs,
including US$14.6 million equivalent in duties and taxes. Fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of cofinancing arrangements would



-23-
be a condition of credit effectiveness. An additional condition of credit
effectiveness would be Government approval of the Project Proforma.l(
Procurement
62.     Construction, renovation, aud furnishing of 1,073 UHFWCs (US$45.1
million) would take place through local competitive bidding (LCB), under
procedures satisfactory to IDA, since the sites are too numerous and dis-
persed for international competitive bidding (ICB). The Construction
Management Cell has set up satisfactory criteria for prequalifying contrac-
tors ard would be responsible for review and award of all bids. The
Government of the Federal Republic of Germany would finance construction of
the extension to NIPORT's building (US$235,000) under its own procurement
arrangements. Furniture, other than that needed for UHFWCs, and equipment
(US$2.5 million), vehicles (US$8.3 million), and medical and surgical equip-
ment and supplies (US$17.9 million), would be procured through ICB in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines, unless individual cofinanciers require other arran-
gements in respect of their disbursements. Under ICB, domestic manufacturers
would receive a margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of
imported goods or the actual customs duties and import tares, whichever is
less. Such furniture, equipment, and vehicles would be grouped insofar as
possible in bidding packages valued at a minimum of US$100,000. Those which
cannot reasonably be so grouped would be awarded through LCB under approved
Government procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. Drug and dietary
supplement kits (US$34.2 million) and other MCD kits (US$279,000), would
continue to be procured insofar as feasible through UNICEF. Otherwise they
would be procured through ICB unless cofinanciers require other procedures.
FWA supplies (US$201,000) would be procured through LCB. Equipment,
furniture, and supplies valued at US$20,000 or less, except for UEFWC
furniture, would be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of at
least three price quotations, subject to a $200,000 ceiling on the sum of the
items so procured during the project period. Consulting services, including
surveys and studies (US$9.0 million) would be procured in accordance with
procedures of cofinancing agencies or IDA guidelines as applicable. Each
IDA-financed contract over US$100,000 would be subject to prior IDA review.
1/ The Project Proforma are internal Government documents, approval of
whicb is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-24-
PROCUREMENT TABLE
(uS$0000)
Procurement Method               Total
Proiect Element                  ICB      LCB       Other      N.A.        Cost
Civil Works and UEFWC                   45,075        235                45,310
Furniture La                           (41,150)                         (41,150)
Equipment and Other            2,322                  206                 2,528
Furniture                        (14)                                       (14)
Vehicles                                                                  8,337
- NIPORT Training                                   400
- Other                      7, 937
(4,109)                                   (4,109)
MCH Kits and FWA                            201       279                   48D
Supplies
Medical and Surgical          17,929                                     17,929
Equipment and Supplies    (15, 519)                                   (15,519)
Drug and Dietary                                   34,240                34,240
Supplements                                    (11,648)               (11,648)
Technical Assistance                                          8,981       8,981
Contract Services,                                           (413)       (413)
Studies and Surveys
Training for Service                                         10,007      10,007
Delivery /b
Other Training Costs                                          9,511       9,511
Innovative and IGO                                            9,546       9,546
Activities                                                 (5,000)    (5,000)
Recurrent Costs                                              66,979      66,979
(140)      (140)
Total Costs                   28,188    45,276    35,360   105,024    213,848
IDA Contribution             (19,642)  (41,150)  (11,648)   (5,553)   (77,993)
/a  Includes US$235,000 for construction of NIPORT extension building.
/b  Expenditures for furniture, equipment, vehicles, civil works and
technical assistance in NIPORT Programs are distributed among the
appropriate expenaditure categories.



-25-
63.     Disbursements.  The IDA credit and any funds IDA may be authorized
to disburse on behalf of other donors, would be disbursed over six years on
the basis of full documentation for all items of expenditure except for
innovative programs, the Supervision Directorate and payments under small
civil works contracts. Disbursements against these items will be made on the
basis of certificates of expenditure. The schedule of estimated disbursement
is based on the phasing and programming of project activities, adjusted by
comparisons with Bank-wide disbursement profiles for the sector, for
Bangladesh, and for the first and second population projects, and shortened
to take into account the fact that problems which delayed implementation
under the first two projects have been largely remedied. Disbursements
against the IDA credit would cover: (i) 90X of civil works; (ii) 100Z of
foreign expenditures, 100% of ex-factory local expenditures, and 65% of
expenditures for locally-procured vehicles, equipment, and materials;
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures, 1002 of ex-factory local expenditures,
and 65% of local expenditures for DDS kits; (iv) 1002 of the costs of the
Contraceptive Prevalence Surveys, innovative activities, and the Supervision
Directorate. No disbursements would be made for DDS lots until a logistics
system, satisfactory to IDA, is in effect for the distribution and control of
DDS, MCH, and IUD kits, MCH supplies, contraceptives, and medical aud surgi-
cal requisites; no disbursements in excess of $25,000 would be made for
innovative activities without prior approval of IDA. In order to facilitate
disbursement a Special Account with an initial deposit of SDR 4.0 million
equivalent, would be established in the Bangladesh Bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA.
Accounts and Audits
64.     Each participating ministry or other implementiug agency would
prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices. The Project Finance Cell would continue to audit local currency
expenditures quarterly and furnish these reports to IDA within six months of
the completion of the audited quarter. Reimbursement in each succeeding
quarter would be dependent on the availability of the Project Finance Cell's
audit for the quarter ending six months earlier. Audits of project accounts
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be made available to IDA
within nine months of the close of each fiscal year.
Benefits
65.     Since the project would finance most of the major activities of the
national family planning and NCR program, its benefits cannot be separated
from those of the program as a whole. The program is intended to raise the
contraceptive prevalence rate from a level of about 24-26Z in early 1985 to
38-40X by 1990. This rate of increase would be comparable with that achieved
by other Asian countries with strong family planning programs. A 50Z
increase in contraceptive prevalence over the next five years appears
reasonable given the CPR increase of 100X over the past six years.
Achievement of the CPR target of 40Z by 1990 would imply a reduction in the
total fertility rate from 5.8 to 4.8. Thereafter, growth in the CPR is



-26-
likely to be slower and will depend on improvements in socio-economic condi-
tions and efforts to create additional demand for family planning. The
program's communication/public education component is designed to stimulate
demand for family planning services after 1990. With sustained effort, the
CPR could reach 52%, with a TFR of 3.7, by the year 2000. Under this
scenario, Bangladesh would achieve replacement fertility by 2025-2030 with a
total population of over 220 million.
66.     The MCH part of the program would contribute to an estimated fall in
the infant mortality rate from 132 to 100 per 1,000 and in the maternal
mortality rate from 6 to 4 per 1,000 by the end of the project.
Specifically, the project would provide better child spacing, tetanus
immunization to 6.6 million rural vomen, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus,
polio, and measles immunization to 4.2 million children, and
diphtheria/tetanus immunization to an additional 4.7 million children.
Knowledge of the use of oral rehydration therapy would be extended to 7.7
million families, approximately 60Z of total families in rural areas.
Risks
67.     The main risks faced by the project relate to the strength of the
Government's determination to improve the management and supervision of
service delivery, to strengthen and expand the national MCR program, to carry
out specific institutional development efforts for NIPORT and the vomen's
programs, to improve the motivation of family planning/HCR field workers,
and to maintain a stable organizational structure in MOHPC. The project is
designed to increase the frequency of field supervision and to refocus super-
vision on the support and guidance of workers which will require continuing
support from senior management in MOHPC for the supervision component of the
project in general, and for the Management Services Development Team's
efforts in particular. Development of a national NCR program will require
persistence in the Government's commitment to give the delivery of basic
health services more emphasis in a program which in the past has concentrated
almost exclusively on family planning. The success of the NCR program will
also depend on the degree to which field supervisors accept and reinforce the
new balance between services, and the degree to which the Government develops
its reward system for MCH performance. The new structure of NOHPC allows an
integrated approach to service delivery, but this has not so far been
achieved in the field and persistent efforts to increase cooperation between
population and health staff in the field will be needed. Success of the
institutional development programs planned for NIPORT and the women's
programs will depend on the recruitment and retention of key professional and
managerial staff. Finally, structural changes in the past have been a source
of uncertainty and conflict within the MOHPC, and have proved to be a serious
brake on performance in the field. The conceutrated effort needed to improve
management and supervision in the field and to introduce a major new NCR
program will only be possible in the context of a stable organizational
framework. The proposed project has been designed to address these risks.
Progress in the implementation of improvements in each of these areas and the
continuing commitment of the Government to the institutional development and



-27-
program performance goals of the project would be carefully monitored through
the annual Government-TDA-Cofinancier review of the project and through
interim reports to be prepared by the Goverument (paragraph 59).
Part VI - RECONMENDATION
68.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
December 23, 1985



4.   1
;s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
(,'
'N  I
4%~ 



-29-                                 ANNEX I
T A b L L. 'A      .                                as
IANCLA0ESH             - SOCIAL I-DICARCS DATA MEEK?
ANLADeSH                             aRENE JROUPS (UKICITLD AVERAGES) /L
'"ST (srS   kSCENT STINATV /b
RECEIN             Low lCO               MIDDLE ICSE
19601b-    19701k ISTmNAThIb         ASIA A PFACIIC         ASIA 4 PACIFIC
AU  (71010B   SQ. m11)
TOTAL                              144.0       144.0       144.0
AGRICULTURAL                        94.6        97.0        97.4
or       CPITA (Cus)                    ..          ..        13n.0              2/6.3                   1011.1
MlUCt CDNITO  PR  CAPTA
(KILOGRMS  OP OIL EQUIVALENT)        ..         20.0        35.0             285.7                     506.8
flPItATION AM urTAL fTAflVrSt
POPULATIOIa.Mb-YAR (TIUSANDS)  53491.0    68117.0    95497.n
URA  POPULATION (C UF TOTAL)         5.2         7.6        17.0              22.3                      35.9
POPUKATIONI PRCIZMCTIONS
POPULATION IN YTA 2000 (MILL)                            141.1
STATIONARI  POPUATION (KILL)                             310.0
POPULIJAON IfEWlrM                                         1.9
POULATION DENSmTY
PER sq. 'cm.                     371.5       413.0       003.2              173.b                    38e.9
PER SQ. EN. AfR. LAND            565.3       702.5       955.3             3".3                     1591.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (s)
0-1 IRS                         44.2        46.2        63.6               36.3                     38.2
15-64 VS                          52.5        51.1        53.6              59.4                      57.7
65 AUD AMOVE                       3.1         2.6         2.b                4.3                      3.3
POPULATION CR0111 RATE (2)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4         2.6               :.0                       :.3
URBA                               3.7         6.2         6.2               4.1                       4.1
CUurDE BItTH RATE (PER "MYUS)       46.8        43.U        41.5               27.5                     30.1
CUDE. DEATH RATE (PER T8MJS)        22.5        20.9        15.7               10.2                      9.4
CROSS REPRODVION RATE                3.4         3.4         3.1                1.7                      1.9
FANILY PLANNING 
ACCEPTORS. ANUAL (THOtS)           ..        373.0    1207.0 IC
USE RS   OF orM DlED WOEN)         ..          ..         25.0 Td           49.4                      56.5
sODD a munosl
132)3 OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1909-71-100)                      106.0       101.0        54.0             116.b                     1264
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)     d3.0        90.0        63.0             L06.3                     115.7
PUOTFINS (GRAMS PEX DAY)          43.0        45.0        42.0              60.1                      t0.3
oF WSICK ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0         9.0         7.0 le           14.4                      14.1
C3tLO (AES 1-4) DEATH RATE          25.4        22.6        19.0               7.3                      !7.2
HEALTH
LIFE  FECr. AT BItTR (YEARS)        43.5        44.9        49.6              60.5                      6U.b
INFANT MDRT. RATE C PER T11)       159.0       150.0       132.0              69.2                      64.9
ACCESS TO SAPP *ATEX (%POP)
TOTAL                              ,          45.0        38.0 Ic           44.2                      46.0
URBAN                              ..         13.0        26A0 Ic           77.2                      57.6
RURAL                              ..         47.0        40.0 7E           34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EUCREiA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          6.0         3.0 lc            7.8                      50.1
LURUN                              ..          ..         21.0A             28.8                      52.9
RURAL                              ..          ..          1.0 W             5.5                      44.7
POPULATION PER PYTSICIAN             ..       8430.0      7810.0            3316.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NRISING PERSON              ,.      76810.0    22570.0             4e90.7                    ZeA4.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                                       7020.0 h1  4490.0              1039.2                   1l12.1
lURAN                              ..        810.0 7    600.0 .e           2Y9.1                     b51.4
RURAL                              ..          ..      23470.0 Ic         0028.2                    Z59b.9
ADMISSIONS PER HfOSPITAL BED         ..          ..         ..                52.3                      41.1
-DC
AVYtRUE SIZE OF hOUSESRLI
TOTAL                              ..          5.9 If      5.8 Ic
URAN                               ..          6.1 7       6.i 7..
RURAL                              ..          5.9 Ii      5.8 7c.
AVERAGE HO. OF PERSONS/ROGrI
-OTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RLRAL                              ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF DUELLINGS WM  .LECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..          3.5 Ic
URSAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



-30-                                            ANNEX I
?An LKE                                           PACE I
RANCaLADIt89II         - SOCIAL INDICATOUS DATA SHrET
BANGLAPKISH                         NEFERENE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERSGES) La
!E)ST                    (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
196U./b          R RECENT           LOW INCOIeI            IDDLE INCOKE
196Ut!!    197UdA  EST1KAT!/        ASIA & PACIFLC         ASIA * VACIVIC
DCATWO
AWUSTED ENIROL2MENT RATIOS
*   PIUIARY:  TOTAL                   47.0        52.0       6U.0               92.6                    100.7
HALE                   66.0       68.0        68.0              105.5                    104.&
FEMALE                 26.0        34.0       51.0               79.3                     V7.2
SECOUARY: TOTAL                   8.0        19.0        15.0              31.3                     47.8
MALE                   14.0        29.0       24.0               40.8                     SU.6
FErAA                   1.0        8.0         6.0              21.9                      44.8
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)         1.u         0.8        14.3               3.2                     18.&
PUPIL-TEAZCHER RATtO
PRIMARY                            ..        45.0        55.0 /d           3H.0                     30.4
SECONDARY                         ..         26.0        21.0 7T           17.4                     22.2
CEgUUUWIOUI
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP         ..          0.4        U.4 /c             0.9                     10.1
RADIO RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP        ..          ..         8.1              129.8                    172.9
TV RCEIVEPRS/THOUSAND POP            ..         ..           .9              19.8                     58.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENER
IPNERCST) CIRCULATIOw
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            ..          ..          5.8              25.7                     65.3
CIERA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      .           ..         ..                 6.0                      3.4
TASR FORCE
TOTAL 1.1R FORCE (THOUS)         19252.0    23611.0    33542.0
FEKOLE (PERCENT)                 15.2        16.6        17.8              33.2                     33.6
AGlUaJLTUE (PERCENT)             87.0        86.0        74.0 /c           69.6                      52.2
INDUSnyR (PaRCENT)                3.0         3.0        11.0 re           15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            36.0        34.7        35.1              41.9                      36.9
MALE                             58.7        55.9        56.3              53.6                      50.8
FEMALE                            11.4       11.9        12.8              29.1                     zb.8
ECONOMIC DEIENDENCY RATIO           1.3         1.4         1.3               1.0                      1.1
ICOM  DISTRINITION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS         18.3 3
HIGHESr 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS        44.5 i      44.1 /h      ..                ..                      48.0
LOWESr 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          6.9 jj      8.7 /h     ..                 ..                       o.4
LOWEST 4OZ OF HOUSEHOLDS         17.9 TX    19.6 7ii      ..                ..                      15.5
POVErY TAXT CGOUPS
F.STIKAED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBASU                            ..          ..        139.0 1e          133.9
RURAL                             ..          ..        111.07e           111.6                    151.9
ESTIMATED RELATIvE POVERTY INCODtE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..          ..                ..                     177.9
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..                61.7                    164.7
t.f>lmulL   CUt. u_....n.n..a
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                             ..          ..         86.0 /c           43.8                     23.5
RURAL                             ..          ..        86.0 /e            51.7                     37.S
O AVAIIAULE
NODT APPLICABLE
NOT UPLTCNOTE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatico-uloted aritimetic mans. Coverage of conutries
among the indicators devend. on availabilLty of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unles otherwise noced. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "beta for 1970' between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Host Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1981.
/c  1980; Id 1984; le  1977;  /f 1973; jg 1963;  lb 1967  h 1972.
JUNE. 1985



ANNEX I
Page 3
-31-
DMN1IMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nou Although thedsa na dw fremo genemlyjudd the most suthoriativeand rdiable it should also be noted that tbey may not be inteantionlly
cmpambe beua uo Stbelk f andudized definitions and copt ud by diffnt counies in collecting te data Te da are, nonesheks. usful to
desebe ordenrsomaiudcindicate ttr.ndocbaractize  tin msjordilreemsbetwesncountries.
The yFeraIgroup are (I) 1h the country grup Of the subjet counity snd (2) a country Xroup with somewhat higher avemac income than thc country
goupf thesbjectcouny(-p  r-Hh In    Oil Exporta"group whr  Miidle Income North Arricaand Middk East is coen becaueofstroger
culzual uid  In tbe reference group da the avngs    popution weiild arithmetic mns for each indicator and shown only when mjority
ofthee i in ialup haspdas for tat indictor Sinee the cove fcountrisog the indicators dpends on tic vailaity ofdata d is not uniform.
caution mut hbeeid in bting vereoone indicat t another. Tec avegesaonly usdul in comparing the vwlueorne indicator at a time among
Me country and referiene o-
AREA (tousnd sq.kn)                                           Crd BMirth Rae (perth.assad)-Numberoflive births in theyear
Tar&a-Total surface area comprising land area and inland watems  per thousand or nid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1933 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 datu.                                     Crmde Deat  Rate (per th*as-ad)-Number of deadts in the year
Ags*mkurul-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  GCs Rqedaeu Rae-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960,1970 and 1982 dat                            witl bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiencs
present age-specific fertility rates usually five-year averges ending
GNP PER CAPffA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, cakulated by sUN conversion method as WorYd    Ii.y PlannivZ-Accepers. Arwn (thesaadr)-Annual num-
No  Ada (1981-43 basis); 1983 data                            berofaccetrofbirth-control devices underauspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPrION PER CAPr-Annual apparent                    family planming program.
consumption of commercial primary eneg  (coal and lignite,     Faldly Plonit-lsers (pmert of ame ed iwn)-The percen-
petroleun, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geotherma elec-  tage of married women ofchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands are pracdcing any form ofcontmception. Women
1982 data.                                                    of child-bearing age arm generaly women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VIWTL STATIICS                                 groups-
Totwalhpmli, Mii-Yew (tata.      -As ofJuly 1:1960.1970.      FOOD AND NUT1M0N
and 1983 data
Ld  Indexe fFadPrPdwea Per Caita (1169-71 = 1oo)-Index of per
Urba  Pepsti  (percea of tw)-Ratio of wrban to total          capita annual production of all food commoditie  Production
population. differet dfinitions of urban aras may affect compar-  excudes animal feed and seed for agricultur. Food commodities
ability of data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    indude primary comunodities (eg. suparcane instead of sugar)
Populuiw P,weeies                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Poprution i year 2000-The propection of population for 2000.  exduded). they comprise ceras, root crops, pulse  oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Staring with informaton on  vegetabes frtuits. nuts sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total populaion by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parametas  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at rfe-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assunptions until the population became stationary.           Pr Capgta Sapp .fCals'i  (premt Qf _requiets)-Comput-
Stationary popdation-  onc in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while aSespecific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports lss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Reouirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in tbe year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  ageand sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement klvel.                                    waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popidation Moenwatni-s the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Supply of Prweitr (rams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacenent-level fertility has been  percapita net supply offood per day. Net supply offood is defined
achieved-, that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirenents for all countries established bv USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year * is mcasured as  provide for rninimun allowances of 60 granis of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year z. given the assumptuon that fertility reman- s at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards ,are lnwcr than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                     75 gramns of total protein and 23 grams u f animal protein as an
Ati.r D,y                                                     average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.knL-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tare) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.               Pr Capi Protein Supply fmnm Animal and Pare-Protein supply
Per sqkmagr qicasral hvan-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived finm animnals and pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 dat:.
putiamo Age Structue (percetr--childrcrm (044 ycars), work-   Chid (qaes 1-  Death Rate (per rhosad)-N umber of deaths of
ingage(S1-64years).andretired(65yearsandoverlaspercentage     children agd 1i4 year per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 19x3 data.            gnrup in a iveut yvear. Kir mnost developing countries data derived
from lil; s;mh-.j: 19t.t). 1970) and 1983 data.
Peop       Cie htc {wepacet)--tere  Annual gruw1hrates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-13.  !FA1tIl
Popuais,a Growth Rae (percrnt)j-'ban  Annual grnwth raItC.     Lrfe EApntarry at Rirk (years)-Number or years a newborn
of urban popution for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197(1-1( data.    infiont wtould live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
-                                                    Page 4
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pwl-tewcher Ratdo - prinary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in prmary and secondary kvels divided by numben of
bowu M.talty Rate (per tdasuad)-Nurnber of infants who die     teachers in die corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMTI1ON
Accra to Safe Water (peet of          _     _da a, _and        Paene Cars (per thowad popubstionjl-Passenger cars com-
nwnal-umber of people (total., urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seatiog less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Red Re a ipe rxwl p           ..tioJ)-Al typcs of receivers
boreholes, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respe-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban ara a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-liccnsed rceiver in countrie  and in yers when
located not more than 200 meters from a house mnay be considered  registration of radio ses was in effect. data ror recent years may
as being withn reasonable access of that house. In rral areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would unply that the houswife or nembers of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate pat of the day  TV  A  (Perths  po-1X  receiversforbroadt
in fetching the family's water needs                           to g8ene  public per thousand population: exdudes unLensed TV
Access to Ewes. & 4pr (p~t              e                      receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
.,d Nraf-Number of peopk (totaL urban, and rural) served by    in effect
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  G k'sp'pe Cacakriam (per twasaidpoprslah)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collction and disposal with or  age circulation of 'daily genel interest newspaper," defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publikation devoted primarily to recording generl news.
borne systesn or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be daily if it appeas at kast Four times a week.
PopAwios pgr Physidhu-lIpulation divided b) number of prac-   Chew   A _E. Attendace per C .a per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university leveL  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Papuaion per Nring Petsaw-ftpulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
P.hd. per Hoetl Red-ta- tar, ud rml-Fbpulation                 Total Labor FAm   (thmisands)-Economnically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respctive number of  eluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds avaiable in public and private. general and spedaized  students. etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers Hospitals are establishincats  various countries are not comparable 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanenty staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  fiumk (perceur-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaEly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
howevea, indude health and medial cenntrs not pemanently staffed  Agricufrr (perceu)-Labor force in fanning, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommuodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faciities.                                          Industry (perceat)-Labor force in mnining. construction. manu-
Ad issios per Hospial Ned-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as pemrcntage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       fora. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Par*iLpaoO RAte (perceat)-rot4  ale. axdfemul-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or actiity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor rorce
Avee.S   of HoueA    (persos per homsehnfd).--ra4 ar,         as percentages of total. nale and female population of all ages
axdmawI-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respeivelyr. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These are based on ILO's
living quarts and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for stattical purposes.  long tine trend. A few estimates arm from national sources.
Average Nuter of Perses per Roam-trala ar, and rura-          Economic Dependeqy Ratio-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. rspctivdy. Dwellings exclude
non-pemanent structures and unocupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTMON
Pecrctag of D-eVs oath Eectriotytoal, wam, .d rural-           Percenage of rTort Disposable Iome (barb in cas  nd kiud)-
Conventional dwelings with electicity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to peentile groups of househokds ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dweOings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A*wd Ed rolknerat Ratrios                                      The following estirnates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prmary school - total male and femal-Gross totaL makl and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Etimaed Absolte Portpy  come Lewd (ULSS per capirt)a-rbant
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and ruraI- -Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age tc be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutitionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estzmated Reaire Poverty Income Lewd (I "ST per capira)-irhan
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent sincc sime  and rwat Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-nchlul  ;average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age-                                                          dcrived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconday school - total. male and female Computed as ahlve:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at last four years of approved pri-  Estimated Popfiatira Re&o' Absote Poertry  1ncoe Levd (per-
mary uisructon: provides general, vocational, or teacher training  cent)-am  an d rw_ arent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are geeaOy excluded.
Vocational Enrollmnt (permcnt ofecanidy)-Vocational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial, or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-33-                                            AN1.
Population: 100.06 million (1913)
CPW Pe CapIa: U1ttl30 (190)
Amnt
(11i. a3s             Avwrcp Amat lcreaee CZ)                   6hcre of Wi Mr.l arat Price. CZ)
iLa rrreel prices)         (ti                                           )cergr
Iadieacer~~~FT               7      M REU"u                     m0         -MM      n      7H omLn 0!  7  oD to
Groom domemic  podact La       11,754           4.0      -0.6      5.5      3.4       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0  100.0
Agriculture I                  5.512            3.1     -1.3      3.3      2.0        59.9   56.9   62.5   53.4   46.7  44.9  46.9
Industry a                    1,493            7.9      -3.2      6.4      3.6         7.7    9.6   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1  12.7
Service. La                  4*749             4.9       3.3      8.1      4.1        30.1   e0.0   26.2   34.0   39.6  40.0  40.
Coaemmptioe                    11.351            4.4      -.7       0.0      2.2        92.4   92.8   99.2   91.0  103.6  98.3  96.0
Groes domestic iLavteent        1.52            10.9    -10.9     .2.0      0.7         6.9   11.3    .1   16.7   13.9  16A   13.7
Inporta of good I af.           1.116            0.1    -11.7       3.4      7A         10.0   803    3.9    7.6    7.7   6.5   9.5
Impocts of oods 4 of.           2.545            8.8    -12.0       *.1      1.1         9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.2  23.2  21.t
Crge uciou.  savings              064            26.5    -17.7     22.1    19.7          0.9    6.1    1.0    4.0   -1.0   G.0   7.2
Ammat
(dllieL   M                  Cecmpoitie  el of.rchandi  Trade Ct)
is curre  pric-.)                       (in cezrrt uric.s)
a e r cto                e22                     l100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Pri_Ui Lk                       261                        41.8    31.5   29.7    31.9    33.3    34.2
Hnfa ctmr.                      541                        58.2    08.5   70.3      8.1    66.7    65.6
Norclnidoo Imports              2.353                       10.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                            494                        47.     44A    33A       14.0    19.5    21.0
Wetroleen                        355                        3.9    11.1   16.2    21.3    19.7    15.1
-mcbinory 4 equlpout             66                        12.6    11.5   23.0    23.9    29.5    20.3
Other                           S33                        35.7    33.0   27.      40.0    31.3    35.6
mi* ms  ma  m   ma  mi ni                                           n K
mica h 1mm 01 llAma IDMCBS (1972/73-100)
CW Deflator                                   140.6   240.7   103.1   177.2   203.6   :16.8   252.7    267.3   295.9   3314    371.2
-c-neh rgate (2k/DS)                            7.9661  0.3759  14.521  15.4667  15.1215 15.2225 15.4777  16JU47  20.040  23.7600 26.9500
Deport price ldes                             104IO    119.0   103.    10.9   126.5   160.9   13.9    175.7   147.7   1M.5   1U1.
I!pert tCi. lid                               144.9   157.    10.2   173.2   168.7   200.9   231.9    263.9   259.9   237.4   225.2
Tezn of trade inde                             72.1    634    574    61.1    75.0    77.0    26.7          66.6    56.8    65.1    E0.6
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~A   _ fW
As ef 09 DI
(at curren ariss.)
1Y7     nn7       mo0     1102    113       1
eout srne                                         54      9.5     10.5       11.6    10.7    10.1
Cwrent szemaiiture                               4.5      7.6      7.7       8        6.5      6.4
Current uplu*s (CO or deficit C-)                *0.9    .1.7    . 2.8      * 3.2    +2.2    *1.7
Caital ep.u_itue                                 3.1      9.5     13.3       12.4    11.    10.3
.or0ign fincing                                   2.      6.0      6.2        3.0    114       0.5
nOe   mo0-7s  B75-e   m
CGP growth rate CZ)                             4.2         -0.6          6.5       5.4
CU? per capta growth  rate t2)                   1.5        -3.0          4.0       2.8
-  at   ilable
.. rct applicabl
La At market prices.
Ak law jue. tea. nd fiab-rira.
Way 31. 19E5



-34-                                                        P%l
BAUROR OP PAYHRTS. KaTERL CUAPTAL  D D2IT
(million USS. in current price.)
UALAWNC2I O   auATfl
EIM   ZM   EactEa&   Ea2  EnE                        M         M   T84   En8
Not eports of maods                           -1.059    -903   -40    -159   -9U6  -1.650  -1,822  -1,96  -1.623   -1.531   -1.766
Zxports of gods                                344     372     405      490    610      722     711     626     686      82       934
'wart. of goods                             -1,403  -1,275   -65  -1.349 -1,556  -2, 372  -2,533  -2,572 -2,309  -2,353  -2,700
Net sports of services                            21     - 7     -29    -32      -28        4      15     -70    -112      -33      -BB
Vorkera' raittances                               35      29      60     113    143       210     379     424    628       552      442
Current account bualae                        -1l03    -E       -1      --14 35  -1.428 -1.592  -1.107   -1.012   -1,412
Direct private invetmmet                          ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..      ..       ..       .
IlLT loas  (net)                                 498     497      238     393    420      SED     513     503    476       363      573
Grants 6 grant-like flown                        382    243       265     394    551      592     584     *W      709      697       E40
Other capital flows (net)                        274       87     17    -39    -16        144     307     255     164      -a      -146
Cbhnse in reserves  - - incre)                  -131       53    -8        25   -124      119      24     142   -242    -166        143
International reserves (end of period)           2U      213     294     269      393     271     249     106     350      516      373
Reser"s as nmntbs of iports of next yer          2.5     2.9     2.6      2.1     7.0     1.3     1.2     0.6     1.8      2.6      1.7
Actual
wI   mi  n7  nat wm  nso na  anz Za
CROSS DISNURSZN KS
Total groam  disbursemnts                   519      563     268    435    477        630     562     548     549
Coacesiaonal                              458      533     244      401     456     600     541     468    483
lilateral                               343      390     1"      262    213       173    237      232    213
IDA                                     112      128      86       as    153     152      170     158    190
Ochr maltilateral                         3       15      14      51      91    176        34      73      s0
Nn-concessional                            60       30      24      35      20       30     21       a       67
gilaterial                               45       16       6       2        3     17        2       7      28
uRnD                                      -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Ocher mltileteral                         -        1       -       -       -       -        1      31      12
Private                                  15       13     I1       32      17       13      19      42      26
NIT DISII1S                                     498 496  47      236     398.   420       SE      513     508    476
D71T ouSTUAINC
Total outstanding and disbursed           1,355    1.797   2.053    2,571  2.951   3.216   3.615   3.979   4.470
Official                                1,233    1.689   1.940    2,436  2,808  3,067   3.491   3,834   4.317
SfD                                     535       55      55       53    55        55      55      55      5
ID                                      255      380     466      554   707    159   1.027   1.181  1.366
Otber                                   923    1,254   1,419    1,827  2.047   2,154   2,409  2.599  2.896
Private                                   122      108     113       135   142      149     124     145    153
Undisbure d debt                          1,019      948   1.016    1,335  1,659  1.719   2,104   2,619   2.773
Dalr SCRVWC
Total debt servic                            31       E3      59        69    9f       94      91      87    123
Amortization                               21       66       30       37    57       50      50      40      74
Interest                                   10       22      28       32    38       43      42       47      49
UID debt serwice                              0        2       3         3     4        4       4       4       3
TDl debt service                              1        2       3        4      4       6        7       8       8
Average inteeat rate
Official                                  1.8      1.2     1.3       1.2    1.3    1.2      1.6     1.3     1.0
Privte                                    2.3     LE9      7.2       6.2   6.1      6.9    10.8     8.6     8.6
Average maturity
Official                                 35.1     42.9    38.6      3E.5  36.2   34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5
Private                                  15.3     11.3    11.0       9.5  14.8   19.2       7.7    11.7   12.9
UBAK CROw nXPOSa (Z)
I  DDOD/total DOD                             4        3       3        2      2       2        2       1       1
D2f  disbursemeats/total disbursen ts         0        0       0        0       0       0       0       0       D
DID debt service/total debt er-vice           0        2       6        -5     4        4       4       4       3
IDA DOD/total DO                             19       21      23       22     24       27      28      30      31
7D diabursementaltotal disburseueuts         22       23      32       20     32      24       30      29      35
Dl debt aervice/total debt service            3        3       5        5      5       6        7       9       6
TM  STRUCTURE                                       AJtune   198        DD/ID  UNDIINC (At JSu   1983)        JllD    ID
asturity structure of debt                                            Outstnding 4 Disburse              S39 1,365.8
Maturities due within 5 years                        15.1           Vudisbursed                           -   1,005.0
Maturities due within 10 years                       29.4           Outstanding, incl. Indisbur ed      54.9  2,370.8
Interest structure of debt
Interest due withi 1 year                             1.4
n- ot available
Septmber 27, 1985



-3.5-                               ANIM  II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BUAN GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a
A. STATE1NT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Seuteuber 30. 1985)
Amounts
Loan or                                                         (less cancellations)
Credit                                                             US$ Million /b
Number    Year  Borrover                Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 38 credits fully disbursed                     54.90 1,315.66        -
527      1975 Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00       0.40
542      1975  Bangladesh Barisal Irrigation                 -      21.00       2.79
725      1977  Bangladesh  Muburi Irrigation                 -      21.00        0.58
787      1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II               -      21.00        0.78
864      1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control           -      19.00       8.05
890      1979 Bangladesh  Ozbov Lakes Fisheries              -       6.00       2.07
912      1979 Bangladesh  Vocational Training                -      25.00      11. 87
921      1979 Bangladesh Population & Family Health II   -          32.00        8.L91
934      1979 Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00       4.42
955      1979 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                  -      25.00      11.40
964      1979 Bangladesh  lighways II                        -      10.00       4.07
1001      1980 Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II         -      20.00       7.73
1023      1980 Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      29.00       8.48
1032      1980 Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation       -      20.00      10.45
1042      1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation            -      11.00       4.89
1054      1980 Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -        40.00      19.49
1065Lc    1980 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III           -      35.00      10.83
1091k     1981  Bangladesh Bakhrabad Gas Development          -      85.00       2.69
1096/c    1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport              -      25.00      10.15
1117/c    1981  Bangladesh Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II          -      50.00        9.37
1124kc    1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV           -      16.00       2.76
114O0c     1981 Bangladesh  Hand Tubevells                    -      18.00        9. 86
1147/c    1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit               -      40.00       7.87
1184/c    1982 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II        -      27.00      20.32
1204/c    1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer        -      15.00      13.56
1205/c    1982 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -        30.00      25.46
1215/c    1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II           -      27.00      17.84
1247/c    1982 Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -      60.00      51.43
1254/c    1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power            -      92.00      84.25
1262/c    1982 Bangladesh  Rural Electrification              -      40.00      19.62
12871c    1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                 -      68.00      54.40



-36-                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Banuladesh (continued)
Ai'ounts
Loan or                                                         (less cancellations)
Credit                                                             US$ Million /b
Number    Year  Borrower                Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
130L1c     1983 Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                 -       6.00       2.90
131BLc     1983  Bangladesh Business Management
Education & Training           -       7.80       6.70
1321Lc     1983 Bangladesh  Telecommunications III            -      35.00       26.21
1349L/    1983 Bangladesh Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                    -      12.00        9.29
1357Lc     1983 Bangladesh  Zuergy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -      28.50      25.14
1384&c     1983 Bangladesh  Rural Development II              -     100.00       86.24
1396/c    1983 Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -        8.10      7.21
1399Lc     1983 Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -       20.00     18.28
1402/c le  1983 Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotiou  -        23.00     18.69
144OLc     1984 Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance        -       25.00     25.21
1455Lc     1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research      -       24.50      24.79
1467/c    1984 Bangladesh  Water Development Board            -       41.50     39.40
1471/      1984 Bangladesh  Import Program XII                -      140.00     19.54
1477/c     1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II        -       23.00     22.88
F022/c     1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II        -       22.00      21. 93
149DL0 /e  1984 Bangladesh  Technical Education               -       36.00     35.40
1504-0 /c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP  725 BD                       -       10.00       9.28
1504-1 /c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                       -        5.00      4.24
1504-2 /c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                       -        7.00      6.05
1504-3 /c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                       -        8.00      7.34



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                   Mi      
Number    Year  Borrower                 Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1574Lc 3d 1985  Bangladesh  Second Primary Education            -       78.00     78.00
1586/c /d  1985 Bangladesh  Second Gas Development             -       110.00    110.00
1587/c     1 985 Bangladesh  Flood Rehabilitation              -        30.00     28.68
1591Lc Ld  1985 Bangladesh  Third Flood Control & Drainage   -          48.00     48.00
Total                                                    55.40  3,133.29  1,128.19
of which repaid                                         1.45       8.71
Total now outstanding                                    53.45  3.124.58
Amount sold                                             0.00       0.00
Total uow held by Bank and IDA                           53.45  3.124.58
Total undisbursed                                                          1.128.19
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report On
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, vhich is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Lb  The original principal of credits under replenisbhents 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
*fc Credits funded out of IDA 6tb and 7th Replenishments denominated in SDRs. The
principal amounts of fully disbursed Credits are U.S. dollar equivalent at
negotiation as shown in the President's Reports; the undisbursed amounts are
calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on September 30, 1985.
id  Not yet effective.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Sent. 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                                               Amounts in US$ Million
Year           Obli2or                Type of Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1969   Karnaphuli Paper Kills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products           5.60    0.63      6.23
1979   lighapeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20     0.36     1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company               -        1.05        05
1985     Bata Shoe Co.                 Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.             and Tannery                  3.28      0.51     3.79
1985     Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
CIDLC)                        Capital Market               L.15       0.17    2.12
Total gross co  itments                                             12.03     2.72    14.75
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales             6.26     0.63     6.89
Total noW held by IFC                                                5.77     2.09      7.86
Total undisbursed                                                    5.77     0.08      5. 85



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
17 months.
(b) Agency preparing the project:
Ministry of Health and Population Control
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
May 1983.
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 1984.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations:
September 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action:
-None.
Section III: Special Conditions:
Condition of effectiveness are:
(a) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of cofinancing (para 61); and
(b) approval of Project Proforma (para 61).



-40-                            ANNEX III
Page 2
Condition of disbursement are:
(a)  for DDS, MCH, and IUD kits,
MCH supplies, contraceptives, and medical and
surgical requisites, establishment of a
logistics system satisfactory to IDA
(para 63);
(b)  for disbursements in excess of US$25,000 for
innovative activities, prior IDA approval
(para 63);
Other Conditions are that:
(a) By December 31, 1986, the Government would: (i) carry out
a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
of the present system of client compensation, worker
referral and service provider fees, and community and
other incentives; (ii) promptly thereafter furnish the
findings of this study to IDA for conment., and,
Ciii) thereafter improve, modify or gradually phase out
the system of direct compensation, worker referral and
service provider fees, and community and other incentives
as would be agreed between the Government.and IDA
(para 35);
Cb) The Government would carry out, according to terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, annual surveys of the
clinical contraception programs (para 51);
(c)  The Government would ensure that the Clinical
Contraception Surveillance Team would operate throughout
the project period and would report directly to the
Director General, PCW (para 51);
(d)  The Government would employ additional FWAs to achieve
a 1:4,000 ratio by June 30, 1990 (para 51);
(e)  The Government would prepare by March 31, 1986, and
thereafter implement, a national program satisfactory to
IDA for child immunization and tetanus toxoid immuniza-
tion for women of reproductive age (para 52);
(f)  By June 30, 1986, the Government would prepare and fur-
nish to IDA for approval, and thereafter carry out, an
action plan for each of the project's women's programs
(para 54);



-41-                              ANNEX III
Page 3
(g) By June 30, 1986, the Government would prepare, and
furnish to IDA for comment, a strategy for the utiliza-
tion of NGOs in the FP/MCR program (para 55);
(h) The Government vould carry out a financial study of the
health sector and, by March 31, 1987, furnish to IDA the
findings and recommendations of the study and thereafter
implement recommendations as agreed with IDA (para 55);
(i) By December 31, 1986, the Government would prepare and
carry out a work plan for the incorporation of NCR
indicators into the MIS (para 56);
(j) The Government vould maintain and operate the National
Steering Committee for Population Research (para 56);
(k) The Government would carry out biannual contraceptive
prevalence surveys (para 56);
1)  The Government would maintain and operate a Kanagement
Advz.ory Committee for NIPORT which would meet quarterly
ar.d inform IDA of its findings (para 58).
(a) Local consultants would be employed to provide overall
supervision of the construction program and vould report
monthly to the Director of the Construction Management
Cell of MOHPC (para 58); and
*n) By March 31, 1986, the Government would establish an
annual review system of the project, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, and jointly vith IDL
conduct a progress review at the beginning of each calen-
dar year of project execution (para 59).



INDIA                                                   BANGLADESH
W -\              NDIA                         THIRD POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
NubH of UNPWC T"p %dM.
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                        1 0   u w o   b   s o   WS     -
w   Wd        b, *,  fX  h c
401W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/ ~   -'                                                                         Lwrm ;X  -                         D         MS r
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VM if                                                    ........,,.-.  ....*'g:;'mg   Hm p ft   ' D2S  .  ,;k-.fA 






