CREDIT NUMBER 1649 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Population and Family Health Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1649 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   -        , 1986, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the    rower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Australia a grant (hereinafter called the Australian Grant)   in
an amount of $A11,000,000 dollars to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Australian Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Australia and the proceeds of such Grant
will be disbursed by the Association together with the proceeds
of the Credit;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Canada, acting through the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA), a grant (hereinafter called the CIDA Grant) in an
amount of up to Can$33,000,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the CIDA Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Canada;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany, acting through (i) the
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau ("KfW"), and (ii) Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), grants (hereinafter called the
KfW Grant and the GTZ Grant, respectively) in the respective
amounts of up to DM50,000,000 and DM49,000,000, to assist in.
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in agreements (hereinafter called the KfW Agreement and the
GTZ Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Federal Republic of Germany;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of
Norway, acting through the Norwegian Agency for International
Development (NORAD), a grant (hereinafter called the NORAD Grant)
in an amount of NKr200,000,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the NORAD Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Norway;


﻿- 2 -
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the United King-
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, acting through the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA), a grant (hereinafter
called the ODA Grant) in an amount of £8,000,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ODA Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
(G) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
the Netherlands a grant in an amount of DF1 20,000,000 (herein-
after called the Netherlands Grant) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the Netherlands Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Netherlands;
(H) the Borrower intends to contract from the United
Nations Children's Fund a grant (hereinafter called the UNICEF
Grant) in an amount of $9,700,000 to assist in financing activi-
ties associated with the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the UNICEF Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and UNICEF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions), with the deletion of the last sentence
of Section 3.02 thereof, constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02.   Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional teLms have the following mean-
ings:


﻿-3-
(a) "MOHPC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Population Control;
(b) "MCH" means maternal and child health;
(c) "FWA" means the Family Welfare Assistants, the title of
female employees of the MOHPC responsible for MCH and family
planning services at the ward level;
(d) "UHFWC" means Union Health and Family Welfare Center
which will provide family planning, MCH, and other health
services at the union level and technical support to workers at
the village level;
(e) "FWV" means Family Welfare Visitor, the title of female
employees of the MOHPC who provide maternal and child health and
family planning services at upazila and union levels;
(f) "NIPORT" means the National Institute for Population
Research and Training in MOHPC;
(g) "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh
established under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order
No. 127 of 1972); and
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 1I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy-five million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 75,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amcunt of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to


﻿-4-
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish, The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1996, and ending November 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, population planning and public health
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for


﻿-6-
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing  principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to
the Borrower for the tinancing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
kvAlable to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tirvns consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
ffeew     ate; Termination
Section  6.01.   The  following  events  are   specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
Gereral Conditions:
, all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Agreementg referred to in Recitals B through G of the Preamble to
this Agreement (other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have bsee fulfilled; and
(b) the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the
Project have been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative af the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the


﻿- 8 -
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures fof items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Fxpenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works under        32,900,000         90%
Part A (6) of the
Project
(2) Vehicles, equipment      20,200,000         100% of foreign
and materials under                        expenditures,
Parts A (1), A (5),                        100% of local
B, C, F and G of                           expenditures
the Project                                (ex-factory
cost) and 65%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Drug and dietary         10,200,000         100% of foreign
supplement kits                            expenditures,
under Part A (4)                           100% of local
of the Project                             expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 65% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Contraceptive               410,000         100%
Prevalence
Surveys under
Part F of the
Proj ect


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Innovative                4,900,000         100%
Activities
under Parts E
(2) and E (3)
of the Project
(6) Supervision                 150,000         100%
Directorate
costs under
Part A (1) of
the Project
(7) Unallocated               6,640,000
TOTAL              75,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the -term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) expenditures under Category (3) until the Association
has notified the Borrower that the Association is satisfied with
the logistics system established and being carried out by the
Borrower for the distribution and control of DDS, MCH and IUD
Kits, MCH supplies, contraceptives, and medical and surgical
requisites; and


﻿- 12 -
(c) expenditures under Category 5 in respect of activities
estimated to cost in excess of SDR24,200 equivalent, until the
Association has given approval to such activities.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
reducing its fertility and infant and maternal mortality rates.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Family Planning/Maternal Child Care (MCH) Services
Delivery Consolidation and Expansion
(1)  Strengthening of the management and supervision system
through the creation of additional supervisory cadres,
provision of vehicles and travel allowances, develop-
ment of improved supervision routines and of arrange-
ments for performance monitoring, support to indepen-
dent quality control of clinical contraception and the
carrying out of a management development program
through a Management Development Unit;
(2)  Carrying out of in-service training for district and
upazila staff through institutional development of
NIPORT, training of NIPORT staff, in-service training
for all existing field staff at the union and ward
levels, and training of the new cadres of Senior Family
Welfare Visitors (SFWVs) and Family Welfare Assistants
(FWAs).
(3) Financing of salaries of 10,000 additional and 4,500
continuing FWAs.
(4)  Provision  of MCH-related drugs for Upazila Health
Complexes (UHCs), Maternal and Child Welfare Centers
(MCWCs), Union   Health  and   Family  Welfare  Centers
(UHFWCs), and   Union-based  Family  Welfare   Visitors
(FWVs).
(5) Provision   of  medical  and   surgical  requisites  for
clinical forms of contraception.
(6)  Construction and equipping of about 1,000 additional
UHFWCs, upgrading of about 50 rural dispensaries, and


﻿- 14 -
carrying out of a maintenance program for health
facilities.
Part B:   Maternal & Child Health Programs
Development and integration of a selective MCH program into
the Family Planning delivery system through the carrying out of
training and provision of, inter alia, equipment, vehicles and
operating costs for immunization, diarrhea management and safer
child birth.
Part C:   Communications
(1) Carrying out of combined mass media and interpersonal
approaches to promote the two-child norm, including
training of extension workers and community leaders,
support  to   Non-Governmental  Organizations   (NGOs),
production of materials for radio and other audiovisual
dissemination.
(2) Carrying out of campaigns to promote acceptance of
immunization and diarrhea management programs.
Part D:   Women's Programs
(1)  Strengthening of women's income-generating activities
in about 100 upazilas through Women's Cooperatives.
(2)  Improved  training, marketing and design     skills in
Mothers' Centers in about 80 upazilas.
(3) Strengthening Women's Vocational Training Programs in
about 30 upazilas.
Part E:   Support to Non-Government Organizations and Innovative
Programs
(1) Provision of support to population-related activities
of NGOs, with particular emphasis on expanding their
service delivery role for delivery of injectables in
rural areas.
(2)  Carrying  out of innovative activities designed      to
generate additional family planning (FP) demand, in-
cluding provision of bonuses for delayed marriage,


﻿- 15 -
longer birth intervals and family size limitations;
implementation of a pilot district-based nutrition
program for pre-school children; carrying out of finan-
cial studies and of epidemiological surveys in the
health sector.
(3) Preparation   of   a  fourth   phase  of  the  national
population and MCH program.
Part F:   Research and Evaluation
(1) Provision of support to the Management Information
System and the External Evaluation Unit, including
provision of vehicles, equipment, training, staff
support and the carrying out of special studies.
(2) Provision of support to research through the establish-
ment of the National Steering Committee for Population
Research (NSCPR).
Part G:   Project Management Support
Provision of vehicles, equipment and operating costs to the
Construction Management Cell (CMC), Project Finance Cell (PFC),
and MOHPC Procurement Unit to strengthen implementation capacity.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants" Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts  for goods, other than drugs and dietary supple-
ment kits, which to the extent practicable cannot be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, may be let following local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association; provided, however, that goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 up to an
aggregate amount of $200,000 equivalent, may be procured through
prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations
from different sources.
3.   Drugs and dietary supplement kits may be procured through
the United Nations Children's Fund or any other agency as the
Association may agree.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 17 -
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furn." :1-ed to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A of the Project
1.   In order to ensure independent quality control of clinical
contraception, the Borrower shall carry out annual assessments of
the progress of clinical contraception programs and of client
satisfaction with such programs; the terms of reference and the
timing of such assessments shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.   The Borrower shall ensure that the four Clinical Contracep-
tion Surveillance Teams will operate throughout the Project
period and will report directly to the Director-General of
Population Control, MOHPC.
3.   The Borrower shall maintain and operate a Management Advi-
sory Committee to guide NIPORT's overall institutional develop-
ment, composed of inter alia the Secretary, MOHPC, a Planning
Commission representative and the Director General of NIPORT. The
Advisory Committee will meet quarterly and will inform the Asso-
ciation of its findings.
4, The Borrower shall gradually employ additional FWAs in order
to achieve a 1:4,000 ratio (FWAs population) not later than
June 30, 1990.
5.   For purposes of Part A (6) of the Project the Borrower shall
employ local consultants to (i) provide overall supervision of
the construction program and (ii) report monthly on progress and
problems to the Chief Engineer of the Construction Management
Cell, MOHPC.
Part B of the Project
6.   The Borrower shall prepare by June 30, 1986, and thereafter
implement, a program satisfactory to the Association for increas-
ing the range and coverage of child immunization on a national
basis, as well as providing Tetanus ToXoid immunization for women
of reproductive age.


﻿- 19 -
Part D of the Project
7.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by
June 30, 1986, and thereafter carry out a detailed strategy, pro-
gram design, budget and plan of action, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, for each of the women's programs referred to in Part D
of the Project.
Part E of the Project
8.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by
June 30, 1986, for comments by the Association, a strategy for
the utilization of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in the
population/MCH program to be implemented during the Project
period, including criteria for determining NGO eligibility and
the types of NGO projects suitable for support by the Borrower,
and procedures for processing, monitoring and evaluating propo-
sals and projects.
Part F of the Project
9.    The Borrower shall prepare and implement, not later than
December 31, 1986, a work plan satisfactory to the Association
for the incorporation of MCH service statistics into the Manage-
ment Information System (MIS).
10.  The Borrower shall maintain and operate during the Project
period the National Steering Committee for Population Research
(NSCPR) to set priorities for and support population-related
research and to promote dissemination of research findings and
closer coordination among agencies involved in population
research and evaluation.
11.  The Borrower shall biannually carry out contraceptive pre-
valence surveys under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
General
12. The Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 1986, carry out a study, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, of the present system
of client compensation, worker referral and service provider
fees, and community and other incentives, including the current


﻿- 20 -
and future need for such payments and the options for the modifi-
cation or gradual phase-out o" said payments;
(b) promptly thereaft-c furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the findings of such study; and
(c) thereafter take all such measures to improve, modify or
gradually phase out the Borrower's system of client compensation,
worker referral and service provider fees, and community and
other incentives as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
13. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out a financial study of the health sector with
the assistance of consultants and under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association;
(b) by March 31, 1987 furnish the Association with the
findings and recommendations of such study; and
(c) thereafter implement such recommendations as the Bor-
rower and the Association shall have agreed.
14.  The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1986, establish an annual
review system for the Project, under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association, and jointly with the Association shall
undertake progress reviews at the beginning of each calendar year
of Project execution.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
"itrough (6) as set forth in the table in paragraph I of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; pro-
vided, however, that expenditures under Categories (3) and (5)
will become eligible expenditures only after the notification and
approval mentioned in paragraphs 3 (b) and (c) of said Schedule,
respectively, have been given; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to SDR 4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit


﻿- 22 -
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
agreement to reimburse made by the Association
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 23 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund for crediting to the Credit Account.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal. of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
198 k.
FOR SECRETARY


