Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LJ. Z387- Zk)
Report No. 4826-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
February 17, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Pcower and Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY  QLUIVALENTS
Curreney Unit               Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00                     Rs 9.75
US$0.t0257                  Rs 1.00
US$102,56" ,                Rs 1,0r0 ,000
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:  METRIC
Metric                           British/US System
I meter (n)                      3.281 feet
1 square meter (m2)              10.760 square feet
1 kilometer (km)           -     0.621 mile
1 ton-km                         0.621 ton-mile
1 passenger-km (pass-km)         0.621 pass-mile
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC      - Alternating Current
BG      -  Broad Gauge (1.676 m)
BMC     -  Bombay Municipal Corporation
BMR     -  Bombay Metropolitan Region
BMRDA   -  Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority
BPT     -  Bombay Port Trust
CFS     -  Contaiuer Freight Station
CIDCO   -  City Industrial Development Corporation of 1!aharasbtra
ci£     -  Co8t, insusance, fTeight
CY      -  Container Yard
DF      -  Development Fund
dwt     -  Dead weight tons
ER      -  Econoimic RetuTr
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Returu
PCL     -  Full container loads
fob     -  Free on board
GOt     -  Government of India
Cox     -  Government of Maharashtra
CRT     -  Gross Registered Tons
RIPi    -  Eove (India) Private, Itd.
hp      - Horsepower
hz      -  Hertz or cycles per second
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
ICD     -  Inland Container Depot
IR      -  Indian Railways
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOST    -  Ministry of Shipping and Transport
NSPT    -  Nhava Sheva Port Trust
NTPC    -  National Transport Policy Committee
HIS     -  Management Information System
OMF     -  Organization, Management and Finauce
PIU     -  Project Implementation Unit
POL     -  Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants
RITES   -  Rail India Technical and Economic Services
RRF     -  Revenue Reserve Fund
SFYP    -  Sixth Five-Year Plan
TEl     -  Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit
MNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   TRANSPORT SECTOR ..................................... .........                    1
A.  Introduction .         ...1.......................                             1
B.  Transport Planning and Coordination              .      ............           3
C.  Transport Policy and Investment Allocations  ...............                   5
ItI    PORTS *  .........................* * *                                             7
A .    General      . . . . . . . .  . .    .     . . . .  . . .  . . .  . . . . .  .  . * . , *    *  7
B.  Traffic, Facilities and Operations ....               ....................     8
III.    BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION .........          ..........................            9
A.  General ....................................................                   9
B.  Bombay Port .................................... --. .. ........              10
C.  Nhava Sheva Port Trust ..... . o. ......... .... ..............               11
IV.   THE PROJECT ............................                   ....... . o ......... . ....  13
A.  Background ............. ...................................    13
B.  Project Objectives and Concept .....................                          14
C. Project Description ......... .   16
D.  Cost Estimates ..- ....             ................... .                     18
E.  Financing Plan ...... #  ........ 0....... I-.-..-.--.----                    19
F.  Execution of the Project ..................             ..........            20
G.  Procurement ..  **......... ....... *.. ....-..*...                           21
H.  Disbursements  .....  ............... ........                                22
I.  Monitoring ..       ............................. ...............             23
J.  Envizonmental Impact ..........         .......................               24
K. Port Efficiency Indicators                  .....                              24
The report was prepared by Mrs. I. Bradfield (Economist), E. Frankel
(Port Adviser), A. Sabeti (Railway Specialist), J. Sopher (Financial
Analyst), and R. Vinekar (Port Engineer).



ii
Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................... ... ...... ..... ....  * .    24
A*  General                                        ........o...,*..,*         24
B.  Economic Benefits  .................. ..                                 25
C.  Project Costs . .... .   .. *a...*..    . ..... .....a...a.. aa.a.............    27
D.  Economic Returns, Sensitivity and Risks .................................a   27
E.  Unquantifiable Benefits ..................... ...... ..... .    28
VI.    FINANCE . . . .   ... .. . ..     .................*.....*............    28
A.  Introduction - Past and Present Financial Situation .......               28
B.  Financial Resources ....... ... ..         .......* ... ....*.. .. *..    29
C.  Pricing  . ...........                                                    32
D.  Future Finance .......                .......*..*............ ....**      35
B.  Sensitivity .3 .*. ,,. **                  ,*             *     *         39
F. Internal Financial Rate of Return........................                  39
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................                  39
ANNEXES
Annex  I - Outline Requirements for a Training Program  for the
Staff of Nhava Sheva Port ......................... *                  42
Annex  2 - Port Efficiency Indicators ........................,...                     46
Annex  3 - Traffic Forecast ......*.*            ......... ....... .. ...   .....      48
Annex  4 - Economic Analysis Methodology............................    51
Annex  5 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File..    53
Annex  6 - NSPT Profit and Loss Statement - Year Ending March 31 .....                 54
Annex  7 - NSPT Cash Flow Statement - Year Ending March 3L ...........    55
Annex  8 - NSPT Balance Sheet - As at March 31                 .......................    56
Annex  9 - NSPT Income Statement Indicators              ..........................    57
Annex 10 - NSPT - Assumptions to Financial Projections                 ....            58
Annex ll - NSPT Internal Financial Rate of Return ........               ............    67
TABLES
Table  A - Traffic Handled at Major Ports of India *******............                68
Table  B - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                  .......................    69
Table  C - Traffic Projections ......... . . . . . . . . .. ..*. . . . . . . . . . .  ..........    70
Table  D - Vessel Sizes Assumed and Associated Ship Costs .....e..*e .                71
Table  E - Cost Savings Per Ton Due to Larger Vessels ................                72
Table  F - Assumptions in Computing Cargo Delays .....................                 73
Table  G - Cost Estimates ........................ .* . . ** . . .....    74
CHARTS
Chart  L - Staff of Project Implementation Unit                  ......................    76
Chart  2 - Implemeatation Schedule ............           .......................     77



iii
APPENDICES                                                                 Page No.
Appendix A - Organization, Management and Finance (Accounting Studies)    78
Appendix B - Brief Description of Two Technical Assistance Studies ...   82
MAPS
World Bank Map No. 17680
World Bank Map No. 17644
World Bank Map No. 17645



INDIA
I                NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01      India covers an area of about 3.3 million square kilometers and
includes parts of the Himalayan mountain system, the Indo-Gangetic plain,
and the Deccan plateau of peninsular India. Total population is about 684
million with 23.7% living in urban areas (1981 census) and the remainder in
small villages located mainly in the Indo-Gangetic plain, in the basins and
deltas of other main river systems, and along the coast. The principal
centers of population and economic activity are Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and
Madras. Other main centers are Hyderabad, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Kanpur.
The main agricultural areas are located in the Indo-Gangetic plain. The main
coal and iron ore deposits are found in the eastern part of the Gangetic
plain, where the majority of steel manufacturing and heavy engineering
industries are also located.
1.02      Deliberate government policy, formulated to cope with the con-
centration of manufacturing and trading activities in a limited number of
centers and the dispersal of the majority of the population in a large number
of small villages, has caused rail and road systems to become the dominant
modes of transport, with the railway system providing the main trunk services
while the highways function primarily as a feeder system to the railways.
The traffic using the various transport modes in 1965 and 1981 are Indicated
In Table 1.1 below. The data are rough estimates, but suffice to indicate
the main features of the system.  Traffic figures are rounded to the nearest
billion.
Table 1.1
Allocation of Traffic by Transport Mode 1964/65 and 1981/82
Billion Ton-km      Billion  Pass-km    Annual GrowTh
Mode      1964/65  1981/82    1964/65  1981/82    Ton-km  Pass-km
Rail        107       174          93      229        2.9      5.2
Road         31        92          76      331        6.6      8.3
Other         12       12           2        2        0.0      0.0
TOTAL      150       278         171      542        3.7       7.5



-2-
Agricultural and mineral products account for an estimated 70X of the total
revenue freight transport volume. A large part of agricultural production
and most mineral freight and manufacturing production have either origin or
destination in Northern India, where population and heavy industries are
concentrated. The major part of foreign trade is channelled through the
ports of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras.
1.03      In a country with the size and diversified economic structure of
India, transport plays a vital role. Efficient and reliable transport serv-
ices must be provided; given the scarcity of financial resources In the
economy, these objectives must be accomplished at minimum cost. Of paramo4nt
importance, the vital production activities of the economy must not be
hindered by lack of transportation.
1.04      Traditionally, transport has kept pace with economic development
in the country. During the late seventies, however, the discipline and
morale of labor decreased markedly in both transport agencies and their
freight users alike; at the same time, transport infrastructure and
facilities were given a lower priority for investment funding than other
sectors such as agriculture, energy and industry. Other factors, sueh as
substantial increases in the volume of traffic, as well as the railways'
inability to quickly adjust to the changed pattern of movement, compounded
the severity of the sector's lagging development. As a result, ports (par-
ticularly Bombay) and railways, the backbone of the country's system of
trade, were unable to cope adequately with traffic demand. The road tran-
sport system, never designed to carry sucth large traffic volumes, had dif-
ficulty absorbing the traffic which the railways were unable to accommodate;
it did so only at high cost to the economy. As a result, shortages of vital
commodities such as coal, cement and fertilizer, brought about stoppages and
dislocations in critical economic sectors. More recently, however, the
system's ability to handle this increased load improved markedly as a result
of improved operational efficiencies in the railway and port subsectors.
Average ship waitlng time at Bombay Port dropped from 30 to 40 days in
mid-1980 to about ten days in 1982.
1.05      The railways have traditionally been the main mode of motorized
transport in India. In the early 1950s, the railway was so dominant that
its share of motorized land transport was estimated at 90% of total ton-km
and 75% of total pass-km. Over the following two decades, freight and pas-
senger transport using the highway system increased rapidly while the rail-
ways' share declined to 63% of total freight traffic and 41% of total pas-
senger traffic. The railways' share of freight traffic declined due to the
increasing movement of high-value goods over short and medium distances,
where transport by highway has inherent advantages. The rail'ways' share of
passenger traffic declined because long-distance passenger traffic has
increased at a slower rate than short-distance commuter traffic; except for
the dense population centers of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras, short distance
commuter traffic can be carried more economically by road.



-3-
1.06      Compared with railways and highway transport, shipping plays a
lesser though still significant role in the country' s transport system. In
1982, India's national merchant fleet was comprised of 407 vessels (6 million
GRT).  Of these, 68 (0.3 million GRT) plied coastal routes while 339 (5.7
million GRT) served the overseas trade. The share of India's overseas trade
shipped in Indian carriers was 32.8% in 1981 and is expected to increase as a
result of the Government of India's (GOI) policy to contract for imports on
an fob basis and exports on a cif basis. Coastal shipping traffic, which has
averaged about 3.5 million tons per annum during the past decade, has poten-
tial for growth if some of the coal, salt and cement currently moved by rail
is diverted to coastal vessels; this would not only free rail capacity for
better use but also provide needed return cargo for coastal vessels.
1.07      Currently, the other modes of transport have only minor importance
as goods and passenger carriers; pipelines account for only about 3% of total
freight traffic ton-kms whlle air transport accounts for only about 1% of
total pass-kms. These modes, however, provide important specialized serv-
ices, and each has considerable scope for expansion because of the size of
the country and its geographical features. In fact, projects to expand
pipelines for the transport of crude oil, gas and petroleum products are
currently being undertaken by GOI. Inland water transport, which has mainly
been limited to the North Eastern Region (West Bengal and Assam), Andhra
Pradesh, Goa and Kerala, has not been a significant medium for carrying
freight.  Recently, however, greater attention has been paid to inland water
transport because of its potential to reduce ton-km costs, energy consumption
and surface congestion. GOI has declared the Allahabad-Haldia stretch of
Ganga-Hooghly River as a national waterway. GOI is actively considering the
creation of an Inland Waterways Authority of India to regulate and control
traffic on national waterways.
B. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.08      The Indian transport sector is under the jurisdiction of various
ministries: ports, shipping and roads are under the Ministry of Shipping
and Transport (MOST); railways are under the Ministry of Railways; civil
aviation under the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation; and pipelines
under the Ministry of Petroleum. Planning and coordination is undertaken
within the context of overall national and regional plans.
1.09      The present Central Government's institutional arrangements for
coordinating the transport sector consists of: (a) a Cabinet Committee on
Transport and Tourism; 1/ (b) a Secretaries' Committee on Transport, Tourism
and Aviation; 1/ (c) a Transport Development Council and an Inland Water
Transport Board (for coordinating policies between the Center and the
1/ These committees are standing committees which are not concerned with
the day-to-day planning process. They provide a forum for discussion
and their recommendations are not binding.



-4-
States); and (d) an Interstate Transport Committee (for regulating interstate
road transport). While railways, shipping and major ports are exclusively
under GOl's authority, the Central and State Governments share jurisdiction
over highways and road transport, minor ports and inland water transport.
1.10      This organizational structure, which has resulted in insufficient
coordination within the transport sector, caused great concern and was the
subject of extensive discussions between GOI and the Bank Group for several
years. In view of the increasing need to address sector specific issues
(such as reducing the sector's consumption of oil as part of a coordinated
national effort to reduce oil imports) and formulate investment, pricing and
operational policies aimed at minimizing the transport sector'  resource
cost to the economy, a special study group, the National Transport Policy
Committee (NTPC), was created in April 1978. NTPC, assisted by experts
provided by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), undertook a study
which was presented to GOI in 1980. The Bank reviewed the study's sugges-
tions and recommendations and found that they can provide a sound strategic
framework for developing the country's transport sector. The study's prin-
cipal recommendations for the port subsector include: (a) planning for port
capacity must be undertaken long before congestion actually materializes;
(b) specialized facilities (e.g. container handling) must be provided at the
major ports and complementary rail and road facilities should be created, in
order that the full benefits of containerization be realized; (c) significant
additions to Bombay Port's capacity are needed to relieve its congestion.
Since such expansion is not feasible in the existing port, Nhava Sheva was
identified as the technically suitable site for development of an urgently
needed deep-draft port for servicing modern container and bulk cargo vessels;
(d) major ports must be provided with adequate broad gauge rail and highway
linkages; (e) charges must be sufficient to cover fully each port's opera-
tional costs and yield a 12% return; and (f) the Port Trusts should be given
greater freedom to manage their facilities. GOl approved main NTPC recommen-
dations in a cabinet resolution adopted In March 1982. Implementation of the
study's recommendations has begun recently; because the country is so vast
and has such a complex government structure, each major transport policy
change will be accomplished only after a myriad of difficulties have been
overcome.
1.11      Proposals for investments in the transport sector originate from
the separate ministries.  The Planning Commission assesses these proposals
and those which are approved are included in the national plan. The national
plan, once formulated by the Planning Commission, must subsequently be
approved by the Government and the National Development Council.
1.12      The overall responsibility for transport pricing lies with the
Central Government, except for road transport, the responsibility for which
is shared among the center, state and local authorities. As a result, road
user charges and taxes vary considerably, in terms of both their level and



-5-
structure, from one state to another. A number of studies I/ have recom-
mended improvements to make pricing more efficient, less complicated, las
time-consuming, more uniform and more closely related to costs. Some of
these recommendations have been adopted, in whole or in part, by a few
states; however, a simple standardized system of cost-based prices still
appears a distant goal. In contrast, the Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee
convened by Government has studied the railways' rate structure and has
recommended a number of measures to improve, inter alia, the tariff struc-
ture, and many of these have already been implemented. In the port subsec-
tor, a recent commission (Ambrose Committee) has studied the various tariffs
in use at all the different ports and has made many recommendations aimed at
improving their financial position. 2/  COI is currently reviewing the com-
mission's report.
C. Transgort Policy and Investment Allocations
1.13      GOI's economic objectives for the period 1980-85 were stated in
the Sixth Five-Year Plan. The Plan provides for stimutlating economic growth
by emphasizing investments in irrigatior, rural development and, electric
power. In the current Five-Year Plan, Lhe share of transport in the total
plan outlay is only 12Z (Table 1.2), a substantial decline since the peak of
24% during the Second Five-Year Plan period (1956-61). As a result of
declining investments in transport since the mid-sixties, capacity con-
straints have been experienced by all modes. Railways, ports and major
highways are currently at near saturation points with little resilience in
the total transport network to cope with sudden and unforeseen demands. In
recognition of this problem GOI has adopted a long-term policy of developing
the transport sector to meet the increased demand for transport resulting
from growth in the economy. This policy would be implemented through
(a) increased investments in the highwgy sector with particular emphasis on
providing improved facilities in rural areas; (b) improved efficiency of
railway transpOrt operations; (c) increaginR the capacitv of container
handling facilities at maior pots2; and (d) deconzestint the central business
Aistricts of large metropolitan areas.
1/  Motor Vehicle Taxation Enquiry Committee (1950), Wankhede Study Group
(1971), National Transport Policy Committee (1980).
2/  The principal recommendation is that tariffs should be sufficient to
enable each port to cover its operating expenses including depreciation
and yield a rate of return on historically valued assets of 12%. The
other recommendations are aimed primarily at furthering that objective.



-6-
Table 1.2
Public Investment in TransDort Relative to Total Plan Investment (1951-1985)
(Rs Million)Ja
Plan Period             Total Plan          Transport          Percent Transport
1951-56 (First)             8,540             1,890                   22
1956-61 (Second)          17,430              4,130                   24
1961-66 (Third)            26,640             6,150                   23
1966-69 (Inter)           25,770              4,010                   16
1969-74 (Fourth)           28,280             4,510                   16
1974-78 /b(Fifth)         40,670              5,800                   14
1980-85 (Sixth)           85,450             10,580                   12
/a  All figures are In 1970/71 prices.
lb  The 1974-1979 Five-Year Plan was cut short by the defeat of the Congress
Government in 1978.
1.14      The allocation of public investment funds for transport between the
various subsectors, with the exception of pipelines, is shown in Table 1.3
below. The figures for the period 1951-78 represent actual allocations while
the 1980-85 figures represent planned allocations:
Table 1.3
Public Investment In Transport Allocated by Subsector
UPercent)~
Rail    Roads    RTCs/a    Ports    Ships    Aviation
1951-56                  50       34         0           7         4         5
1956-61                  65       20         2           3         5         5
1961-66                  67       22         1           5         2         3
1966-69                  50       30         5           6         3         6
1969-74                  37       34         5          11         6         7
1974-78                  38       28         9          11         9         5
1980-85                  42       28        10           6         6         8
Average                   50      28         4           7         5          6
/a  Public Sector Road Transport Corporations, mainly for passenger
transport.
1.15      The railway and road transport subsectors together have received
more than 80% of the public investment funds allocated to transport during
the past three decades. In early plan periods railways have received an
average of about 60% more investment funding than the road and road transport



-7-
subsectors. In recent Plan periods, ti,> relative balance has changed,
reflecting the rapidly expanding role of road transport. The large invest-
ment allocations to the port subsector during the 1969-78 period reflects an
expansion program, now substantially completed, on the east coast. The Sixth
Plan alloaection (1980-85) to the port subsector includes only the cost of
land acquisition and engineering services for the construction of a n%!w port
at Nhava Sheva, which was approved by GOI in early 1982; the bulk of expendi-
ture on the proposed port is expected to be incurred during the Seventh Plan
(1985-90).
II. PORTS
A. General
2.01      Ports in India are divided among those controlled by the Central
Government and those controlled by maritime State Governments. The Central
Government controls the major ports, including those at Bombay, Calcutta,
Madras, Cochin, Vishakapatnam, Paradeep, Mormugao, Kandla, Mangalore and
Tuticorin. The major ports are governed by the Major Ports Trust Act 1963;
they are allowed little autonomy to make investment decisions and tO manage
their labor relations. About 178 ports are administered by State Govern-
ment/Union Territories, through varying institutional arrangements, with the
help of local advisory bodies.
2.02      Since the mid-1970s India's foreign trade has been marked by a
rapid growth of containerJlzed traffic as the container trada began to
penetrate the US-Europe-Middle East-Indian Subcontinent routes.  Within a
short period of six years between 1975/76 and 1981/82 the volume of container
cargo increased manifold at Bombay, Cochin and Calcutta despite draft limita-
tions and inadequate thore facilities to handle containers at these ports.
In Bombay the share of container cargo as percent of total general cargo
Increased from almost nothing in 1973/74 to about one-third in 1981/82. Such
changes in the maritime transport system require transformation of port
terminal facilities to accomplish high-speed cargo handling and the develop-
ment of intermodal networks for onward movement of containers to and from
inland destinations. The proposed project addresses these requirements.
2.03      The Bank has only been involved in five projects in the Indian port
and shipping subsectors, including one shipping project and four port
projects. Of the four port projects, two involved Calcutta while the other
two involved Bombay and Madras, respectively. The five projects were
financed by three IBRD loans and two IDA credits, providing an aggregate of
about US$160 million. The last Bank financing for a port project was
approved in 1962; since then, the Bank has not participated in port projects,
primarily because GOI preferred not to use International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for selecting port construction contractors or for purchasing equip-
ment. In recent years, as serious delays were experienced in obtaining
deliveries of equipment ordered from domestic factories and as port



-8-
technology was changing rapidly, GOI's attitude toward using ICB in the port
subsector has changed considerably.
B. Traffic, Facillties and Operations
2.04      In 1981/82 and 1982/83, the ten major ports serviced 9,315 and
6,639 vessels carrying an aggregate of 88 and 69 million tons of cargo,
respectively. Table A itemizes the tonnages passing through each major port.
The lower traffic volume for 1982/83 reflects the impact of the recession and
decreased trade. The principal cargoes handled at the major ports include
crude oil and petroleum, oils and lubricants (POL), iron ore, fertilizers
(including raw materials), coal and containerized and break-bulk general
cargo. Most major ports have specialized facilities. Bombay, Calcutta,
Haldia and Cochin have oil terminals for servicing tankers. Mor=ugao,
Madras, Vishakapatnam, Paradeep and Haldia have mechanized berths for loading
iron ore. Kandla and Haldia have mechanized berths for discharging fer-
tilizers; at Bombay, this commodity is handled using partially mechanized
facilities. All the major ports have facilities for handling break-bulk
general cargo. The throughput of containerized cargo has grown markedly in
recent years; however, until recently none of the major ports, except Haldia,
had specialized facilities for handling containers. At present the ports at
Bombay, Madras and Cochin are each providing specialized berths with suitable
-quipment and back-up facilities for handling containers.
2.05      In order to draw full benefits from the growing trend toward con-
tainerization, 00I wishes to promote inland movement of containers. As a
result, the Ministry of Railways has developed plans to establish Inland
Container Depots (ICD) in Delhi, Ahmadabad, Nagpur and Bangalore. Unit
trains carrying containers are expected to run between the major ports and
the ICDs. GOI has already made necessary adjustments to allow consignees
to obtain customs clearances for the contents of their containers at ICDs;
as a result, containers can be transported to and from the ICDs withcat
having to be opened at the port. The ICD at Bangalore is already handling
containers shipped through the port of Madras. The movement of containers
between Bombay and Delhi is now scheduled to begin in March 1984 after a long
delay due to opposition from Bombay Port's labor unions.
2.06      During the last decade, congestion was a serious problem at some
of the major ports, especially Bombay. A number of factors, such as inade-
quate or unsuitable cargo handling equipment, inadequate storage space,
insufficient capacity to handle road and rail traffic and poor scheduling
of fertilizer vessels leading to bunching, have adversely affected port
operations; however, more than any of these factors, labor problems were
responsible for many of the operating inefficiencies at the major ports.
During the 1970s, a decline in the productivity of dock workers and frequent
work stoppages contributed substantially to the increase in waiting and
turnaround times for vessels. Recently, labor relations have improved and
during the last two years strikes have not beset any major Indian ports with
a consequent reduction of congestion.



-9-
III.  BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION
A. General
3.01      While Bombay is India's second most populated city, it is the
country's most important industrial, commercial and financial center.
Its high rate of economic development, combincd with high overall levels of
employment, have caused Bombay to experience substantial urban growing pains.
GOI has a long held national policy of limiting the growth of larger
metropolitan areas; within that context, the Central, State and Local Govern-
ments have all adopted policies aimed at discouraging new activity within the
city while trying to relocate existing activities to the city's environs.
3.07      Although the area of Greater Bombay (the part of the Bombay
Metropolitan Region (BMR) falling under the jurisdiction gf the Bombay
Municipal Corporation (BMC)), is very large (about 4;8 km ), much of its
population and economic activity is concentrated in the old island city at
the area's southern flank (Map No. IBRD 17680). The island city is a long
and narrow strip demarcated by Colaba Point at the southern tip; Mahim,
a Western Railway junction, at the northwest extremity; and Sion, a Central
Railway junction, at the northeast extremity. The two north-south railway
lines divide the island city into separate functional areas. Residential
neighborhoods lie largely to the west of the railway lines; the island's
eastern shore is dominated by port-related activities, warehousef and
wholesalers.  Although the island accounts for only 15.5% (68 km) of the
metropolitan area's total land surfaces, it houses 51% of the area's popula-
tion (in some districts at very high densities), 71% of the area's employ-
ment, including 60% of the area's factory jobs. While sucb concentration is
not inherently bad and is typical of many monocentric cities, the narrowness
of the southern end of the island and the area's consequent dependence on a
very limited number of north-south rail and road arteries have led to a
nearly paralytic congestion of the central city and have eliminated most of
the options for spatial redistribution within the city itself.
3.03      The existing docks at Bombay Port are located along the island's
eastern waterfront near its southern tip. All traffic moving between the
port and the mainland must cross bridges about 30-50 kms north of Bombay Port
to connect with National Highway 4; these bridges can only be reached by
travelling Bombay's entire length through its eastern corridor of city
streets, then proceeding along relatively congested semi-urban roadways.
Traffic demands on Bombay Island have continued to grow, making road access
to the existing port ever more difficult and costly. Shifting certain port
activities away from the congested island will not only reduce land access
costs, but also remove some of the pressure that would otherwise be exerted
on Bombay's road system. These considerations provide good support for GOI's
decision to build a new specialized port facility at Nhava Sheva located on
the mainland, only 20 kms from National Higlhway 4 in an area where access and
service roads can be built cheaply and easily.



-10-
3.04      The Bank has participated ift financing three projects aimed at
developing BMR, using two IDA Credits (in an aggregate amount of
US$225 million) and one IBRD Loan (US$25 million). These projects have
emphasized upgrading urban infrastructure, mainly water supply and sewerage
and urban transport systems. Th- Bank has now shifted some of its emphasis
in an attempt to support the urban poor directly and has recently appraised
the Bombay Urban Development Project, which primarily addresses land develop-
ment and shelter needs of the urban poor. Future projects will seek to
develop light industries in port cities and both agro-processing and market-
ing services in small towns. The proposed Nhava Sheva development would
enable GOI and the Bank jointly to support the orderly development of an
urban center containing considerable job opportunities while, at the same
time, relieving some of the pressure on the Bomabay Island city.
B. Bombay Port
3.05      Currently, Bombay handles about 16 to 17 million tons of cargo per
annum. About eight million tons of dry cargo is moved across the Indira,
Prince's and Victoria docks; the remaining cargo is handled at the bunders,
which service mainly POL traffic and oceangoing sailboats. The volume of
throughput handled at the three docks grew from about five million tons in
1945/46 to about eight million tons in 1980/81, an increase of only 60%
during a 35-year period. This slow growth largely reflects the dampening
impact of severe congestion and labor problems experienced at Bombay port
in the past two decades and GOI's deliberate policy of decongesting Bombay
city by diverting traffic to other ports. The volume of throughput handled
at bunders, however, increased nearly fivefold from two million tons in
1945/46 to 9.5 million tons in 1980/81; this growth reflects primarily
increases in POL traffic after the comnissioning of the oil refineries in
the 1950s.
3.06      General cargo is now increasingly containerized.  The number of
containers passing through Bombay Port has grown from 2,500 per month in 1978
to about 11,000 per month in 1982. Most of the containerized cargo is
handled at two improvised berths, which occupy only about ten acres of land
at Indira Docks.
3.07      In response to the rapid growth of container traffic in the past
few years, the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) has initiated measures to increase the
port's capacity to handle ccontainer traffic. Some old transit sheds have
been razed to provide larger staging areas. Two container yards have been
developed outside the port area and various container handling equipment have
been procured.  These improvements are, however, intended to meet the
short-tenm needs of the existing and expected traffic at Bombay Port in the
next few years. Projected container and bulk cargo traffic beyond 1988 would
require provision of modern container and bulk haadling facilities which
cannot be accommodated at Bombay Port due to draft limitations and the
physical constraints posed by the limited land. Moreover, even if improved
facilities at Bombay Port could handle additional traffic, its distributional



-11-
impact on the city streets would be chaotic, seriously straining the capacity
of already congested streets.
3.08      For this reason, after many years of internal discussions, GOI
approved the development of new port facilities at Nhava Sheva. The proposed
site is located along a natural deep-water channel and deep-water berths
there could accommodate ships of up to 70,000 dvt. In comparison, the Bombay
Docks cannot handle 6hips larger than 22,000 dwt. The proposed site includes
substantial undeveloped land which could house large staging and operating
areas, and intermodal transport facilities needed to move containers in and
out of the port quickly. Also, since Bombay Port has constraints in develop-
ing adequate facilities for handling dry bulk cargo, GOI has proposed build-
ing speclalized facilities to handle this traffic at Nhava Sheva. Thus, in
the long run, GOI intends that Nhava Sheva would handle most containerized
and all dry bulk cargo passing through the area while Bombay Port would
handle mostly break-bulk cargo, POL and passenger traffic.
3.09      Coincident with developing the proposed project, GOI has been
encouraging the development of New Bombay, a satellite city across Thana
Creek from Bombay Island, in the immediate vicinity of the proposed project's
site. GOI hopes that the Nhava Sheva port would stimulate the development of
the satellite city. The City and Industrial Development Corporation of
Maharashtra (CIDCO) undertook the initial zoning and planning of the area,
including the proposed port. The land use plan that provides for the satel-
lite city and the new port, known as the Bombay Metropolitan Regional
Development Plan (BNIRDP), has been approved by the Government of Maharashtra
(GOM).  GOM took this action in the belief that various decongestion
measures, including: (a) the relocation of wholesale markets from south to
north Bombay; (b) the construction of an east island tollway and truck ter-
minal at Wadala-Anik; and (c) the introduction of an area traffic management
scheme in downtown Bombay would not, by themselves, be sufficient to contain
or decrease urban congestion in the Bombay Island city. GOM has notified for
acquisition all land covered by the BMARDP and taken possession of some areas
required for the satellite city and the port (para 4.21).
3.10      The proposed project is expected to have an important catalytic
impact on the growth of New Bombay which was conceived as a polynuclear
population center with separate concentrations at Vashi, Taloja, Belapur,
Panvel and Uran. Based on the findings of a study, the port and its related
activities in the Uran area are expected to generate about 50,000 new jobs.
Thus, the proposed project could result in far more new jobs than any other
project under consideration for the vicinity of New Bombay and provide an
impetus to relocate government offices and commercial establishments.
C. Nhava Sheva Port Trust
3.11      In 1981, MDOST retained Howe (India) Private Limited (HIPI) to
develop a Detailed Project Report (DPR) containing the port's schematic plan
and estimated costs and benefits. In early 1982, GOI approved the proposed



-12-
project and MOST was charged with providing the financial and manpower
resources for its further development.
3.12      In May 1982, GOI formed the Nhava Sheva Port Trust (NSPT) as an
independent agency, with its responsibilities and powers defined by the Major
Ports Trust Act 1963, operating under MOST's Jurisdiction. As GOI intended
that HIPL continue to conduct the detailed development of the project under
MOST's direct leadership, NSPT was furnished with small offices in Bombay and
a skeletal staff, and was charged with limited responsibility for overseeing
the proposed project's technical preparations, especially those required to
secure and develop the site. Since then, NSPT has established a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), staffed with a cadre of top-level professionals to
oversee the early stages of project implementation (para 4.19). As of nego-
tiations, NSPT had made staffing arrangements for the PIU in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank.
3.13      MOST intends that NSPT will remain small (relative to other port
organizations in India) during construction and will only expand moderately
later when Nhava Sheva becomes an operating port. After Nhava Sheva becomes
operational, NSPT will have responsibilty for overseeing the activities of
contractors and concessionaires, who will be retained to operate many of the
port's ancillary facilities, and for managing the port's finances. NSPT is
expected to operate by itself only those facilities and equipment within the
port's immediate confines. In this manner, MOST hopes to minimize the amount
of personnel on NSPT's payroll and to avoid much of the labor unrest and
consequent operating inefficiencies which have gripped other similar
organizations within the port subsector.
3.14      At appraisal, MOST agreed that since the Nhava Sheva port will own
and operate a capital-intensive facility equipped with sophisticated
machinery, the organizational structures in use at other Port Trusts might
not be appropriate to NSPT. NSPT will most likely need to develop many new
job definitions and descriptions; it may also need to alter hierarchical
lines of responsibility. The standard accounting system in use at other Port
Trusts may need considerable modifications to adapt it to the more special-
ized, highly mechanized operating practices contemplated for NSPT; further-
more, NSPT will need new internal systems and procedures for both financial
control and management information.  At negotiations, NSPT agreed to under-
take a comprehensive Organization, Management and Finance (OMP) Study, to
be conducted according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Appendix
A). The OMF Study's objective would be the development of optimal structures
and systems enabling NSPT to function smoothly and efficiently within the
conceptual framework intended by GOI (para 3.13). NSPT further agreed that
(a) consultants, chosen in accordance with the Bank's procurement procedures,
would begin the Study by January 1, 1985; (b) the consultants would complete
the Study by January 1, 1986; (c) the Study would then be furnished to the
Bank for review and comment; and (d) thereafter, NSPT would implement the
Study's recommendations, as approved by GOI.



-13-
3.15      At appraisal, questions arose regarding whether NSPT had sufflcient
authority to: (a) award contracts involving foreign exchange for timely
implementation of the proposed project; (b) hire appropriately qualified
personnel; and (c) allow its officers to have spending powers necessary to
fulfill their responsibilities. NSPT and MOST furnished the Bank Group with
a clear definition of NSPT's powers and responsibilities. At negotiations,
following an extensive review of the issues which had been raised, NSPT gave
an undertaking affirming that it has sufficient authority and its officers
have sufficient powers to enable successful execution of the project and
operation of the port.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background
4.01      The three docks at Bombay Port were built between 1894 and 1914.
They were designed for handling break-bulk cargo which was then the prlncipal
form of cargo moving through the port. Thanks to the foresight of the plan-
ners, the port had sufficient surplus capacity so that it was able to cope
successfully with the growth of traffic during the next four decades, when
tonnages increased but the nature of cargo did not undergo any material
change. During the fifties, however, the capacity of the Bombay dock system
became strained as Bombay Port began receiving bulk cargo, mainly imported
crude ofIl, grain and fertilizer. Bombay Port, originally built to handle
mainly break-bulk, found it difficult to cope with bulk cargo. To ease the
capacity problems, a new marine oil terminal was built in 1956 at Butcher
Island. In 1962 seven berths, partially financed by IDA, were added and GOI
believed that these facilities represented the maximum increase possible to
the physical berthing capacity of the docks, and any future need for
increased capacity would have to be met by developing new facilities at a
different site in view of Bombay Port's internal disadvantages of draft and
beam restrictions, inadequate staging areas and road and rail accesses to the
docks. Accordingly, in 1964 BPT commissioned the preparation of a master
plan for the development of alternative port facilities in the Bombay area.
After having studied various alternatives, the consultant (Bertlin and Part-
ners, UK) recommended Nhava Sheva as the best site for the development of a
satellite port.
4.02      The phenomenal growth of container traffic at Bombay Port combined
with increased bulk cargo traffic has resulted in Bombay Port's throughput
exceeding the dock system's designed capacity. The situation was aggravated
by poor port operation and management practices, including (a) contractually
agreed low labor productivity; (b) mandatory stuffing and stripping of all
containers inside the docks; (c) unsystematic handling of containers;
(d) slow clearance of goods from the docks; and (e) high down-time for cargo
handling equipment. As a result, the port was beset by heavy congestion
during the late 1970s, when the berth occupancy rate exceeded 90% and ship
waiting time averaged 40 days with a peak of 70 days. This costly state of



-14-
affairs persuaded GOI to proceed with a program of modernization and improved
operational practices to increase productivity at Bombay Port. At the same
time, GOI Tecognized a critical need for the construction of Nhava Sheva Port
to accommodate projected future traffic and facilitate the country's foreign
trade through the provision of improved qu3lity of transport services and
reduced port costs. The services of consultants were thus retained to
prepare a DPR (pars 3.11). Between 1982 and 1983, extensive discussions have
taken place between GOI and the Bank regarding traffic projections and the
project's scope. A more detailed analysis of traffic forecasts was under-
taken since then and the originally proposed project was substantially
reduced and modified. The traffic projections which form the basis of the
proposed project are shown in Table C.
B. Project Objectives and Concept
4.03      The proposed project's objective is to accommodate the expected
growth in maritime traffic in the Bombay area up to 1992/93 by: (a) provid-
ing specialized facilities to handle both containerized and bulk cargo (these
cargoes are currently prime contributors to congestion at Bombay Port); and
(b) changing from labor-intensive methods of cargo handling to modern high
capacity systems, so that benefits from handling larger vessels could be
realized.
4.04      The Bank Group's involvement in the proposed project is justified
for two reasons. First, the proposed port will make extensive use of modern
technology, in terms of both design concepts and equipment, for the efficient
handling of containers and bulk cargo, thus affording India an opportunity to
realize full benefits of containerization and increased port productivity
through high speed cargo handling. Second, for operation and management of
the new port, the recently established port authority will have to arrange
for training staff at all levels and for introducing the right types of
systems and procedures. The Bank Group, with its broad-based experience, can
assist NSPT to select and introduce appropriate technologies and promote
institutions suitable to operate a first specialized modern port in India.
GOI has specifically sought the Bank Group's financial assistance having
recognized the advantages of receiving such technical inputs under the
project.
4.05      The approach selected for the proposed port involves constructing
offshore berths for handling containerized and bulk cargo (fertilizers and
foodgrains) in Nhava Creek. This configuration was selected after HIPL
studied four alternative layouts: (a) an offshore scheme with container and
bulk berths located off Sheva Island; (b) an offshore scheme with bulk berths
off Sheva Island and container berths off Nhava Island; (c) a tidal dock; and
(d) an impounded dock. The recommended offshore design selected correspond-
ing to (a) above has the inherent advantage of providing 13.4 m berthside
depth of water at the least cost, In terms of new facilities and equipment,
capital and maintenance dredging, and construction time. The general layout
of the port and the facilities proposed under the project are shown in Map .
No. IBRD 17645 and No. IBRD 17644.



-1 5-
4,06      The container berths would be equipped with modern wharf gantry
cranes. A container yard (CY) equipped with yard gantry cranes would be
located on shore immediately behind the container berths. These two areas
will be connected by access bridges. Railway sidings could be extended close
to the CY so that full container loads (FCL) for inland destinations can be
dispatched to the ICDs by unit trains. The Container Freight Station (CFS)
would be located outside the port area about 8 km from CY. NSPT will lease
operation of the CFS to selected concessionaires, who would provide the
necessary equipment. During negotiations, agreement was reached that NSPT
would examine, in consultation with the recently established Major Ports
Reform Committee, the desirability of leasing CFS to private operators and
prepare, by SeptembeT 30, 1986, a detailed plan for the operation of CFS.
4.07      The bulk berths would be equipped with continuous and grab
unloaders (650 m3 per hour), a conveyor belt system, covered and open storage
areas and a bagging facility. Most of the time, these berths would handle
fertilizers and fertilizer raw materials; occasionally, however, this
facility would also be used for unloading grain. In order to enable switch-
ing between these two commodities, facilities for washing the unloaders and
conveyor belts would be provided.
4.08      The success of the proposed port depends on efficient inland tran-
sportation of containers. GOI recognizes the importance of establishing ICDs
linked to the ports by reliable unit train service.  So far, IR has begun a
unit train operation to haul containers between the Guntur/Annapathi ICD and
Madras Port. A limited unit train service between the Bangalore ICD and
Madras is also in operation. However, the unit train which was to have begun
regular hauling of containers between Bombay and the Delhi ICD in April 1982,
is now expected to begin in March 1984. After a long delay and lengthy
discussions, a combined transport document (CTD), published by G01, has
finally been accepted by three Indian and two foreign shipping companies.
This is a major breakthrough in facilitating multimodal movement of
export/import of goods in containers on the basis of a single contract (CTD)
to and from the interior of the country or ICDs. The railways are expected
to play a major role in the movement of containers from the major ports to
various ICDs. At riegotiations, GOI undertook to develop and review by March
1985 an action plan of future railway operations, including operations within
the port and more broadly along the main trunklines to ICD at Delhi. It also
assured that the operating plans would encompass necessary up-to-date equip-
ment and that the review would include identification of appropriate
facilities and equipment to enable the I1 to carry anticipated traffic from
Bombay/Nhava Sheva ports to inland destinations.  GOI confirmed that NSPT
would participate in such review and would retain the asrvices of appropriate
specialist advisors, if deemed necessary.
4.09      Unless adequate utility services, including water supply and
sanitation, electric power and telecommunications faci'lities, are provided
on time, project construction will suffer and the operating port will not be
able to provide adequate service. The concerned State and Central Government



agencies, namely, the Maharashtra State Government, the Maharashtra Water
Supply and Sewerage Board, the Maharashtra State Electricity Board and the
Post and Telegraph Department, have all agreed to provide their services and
have estimated the cost to NSPT of installing the necessary facilities.  GOM
and NSPT have Indicated that installation of these facilities would begin
soon. In view of the importance of timely provision of these services for
which separate agencies are responsible, it is necessary to monitor the
progress of these works. At negotiations, agreement was reached that by June
30, 1984, GOI will appoint a coordinating group consisting of representatives
of NSPT and the agencies mentioned above to meet frequently untll the instal-
lation of all utilities/services is completed.
4.10      As NSPT will be performing a wide variety of functions requiring
modern machinery, the comprehensive training of inexperienced staff at all
levels is critical to the proposed project's ultimate so.ccess.  MOST and NSPT
recognize this need and agree in principle that the proposed project should
include a well-designed program to provide extensive formal and practical
training to a large number of personnel. In addition to classroom work,
large numbers of staff should have an opportunity to receive hands-on train-
ing at a similarly equipped terminal. For the execution of the proposed
training program (Annex 1), the preferred approach would be to have a
qualified expert or agency to design the training program and to entrust to
an advanced port abroad the responsibility for providing both the formal and
practical training covering operations, maintenance and management. At
negotiations, NSPT and GOI agreed to implement a training program satisfac-
tory to the Bank Group.
4.11      In addition to training, NSPT will need extensive technical assis-
tance to perform an OMF Study (para 3.14), prepare a Container Operations
Manual and conduct a survey to refine traffic forecasts for Nhava Sheva Port
in order to identify long-term needs for inland linkages (road, rail) and
related facilites necessary for onward distribution of goods (Appendix B).
Adequate provision has been included in the project for these studies. At
negotiations, NSPT agreed that the terms of reference for the studies would
be acceptable to the Bank Group, and the selection of the consultants for the
technical assistance would be made in accordance with the Bank Group
guidelines.
C.  Project Description
4.12      The project will comprise:
(a)  Civil works:
(i) A total of 1180 m of offshore marginal wharf comprising
680 m wharf for handling containers (sufficient to berth
one large and two medium-sized vessels) with four access
bridges and 500 m wharf for handling bulk materials
(sufficient to berth two bulk carriers) with one access



-17-
bridge; one service berth of 212 m length, with its
shoreward face designed for berthing port draft;
(ii)  Reclamation and levelling of land;
(iii)  Paved areas for container and railway yard;
(iv)  Construction of storage buildings for bulk and bagged
cargo;
(v) Construction of office and other buildings; and
(vi)  Roads and railway sidings;
(b) Dredging - of access channel south of Elephanta Island
(c) Plant and equipment
Ci) For containers: three wharf gantry cranes, nine yard
gantry cranes, 38 tractors, 136 trailers, and one
heavy-duty forklift (30 T);
(ii)  For bulk and bagged cargo:  two continuous and two
grab unloaders (650 m3/hour capacity each) for
fertilizers and an integrated conveyor belt system complete
with ancillary equipment such as reclaimers, stackers,
bagging machines, wagon loading arms, etc.; and
Ciii)  For marine services:  three tugs, three pilot launches, two
mooring laumches, one survey launch and nagivational aids;
Cd)  Construction of container freight station
Ce)  Installation of an electrical distribution system, including
primary and secondary transformer stations, cables and gear
(f)  Utilities, services and environmental protection
(g)  Staff residential colony
(h)  Technical assistance for (i) a comprehensive staff training
program; (ii) an OMF Study; and (iii) a Container Operations
Manual; and (iv) Intermodal Transport and Traffic Allocation
Study
(i)  Engineering services for the supervision and coordination of
civil, mechanical and electrical contracts.



-18-
D. Cost Estimates
4.13      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$606 million
(excludins NSPT's capitalizable costs for preparing and executing the
prToject) with a foreign exchange component of US$224.4 million. Inclusive
of estimated interest during construction and front-end fee on IBRD loan,
total financing requirements amount to US$722 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$225 million. A detailed breakdown of the cost estitates is
shown in Table G and a sutmmary is shown in Table 4.1 below:
Table 4.1
SummarX of Prolect Costs
Rupees Million               USS million
Local,   Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign  Total
A. Land Acquisition             200.0       -        200.0   20.5      -       20.5
B. Civil Works             . 3,508.2    611.8   2,120.0  154.7    62.6   217.3
C. Dredging                      59.0    236.8       295.8    6.0    24.3    30.3
D. Plant and Equipment          430.1    688.5   1,118.6   44.0    70.7   114.7
E. Container FTeight
Station  .                   41.5      12.4       53.9    4.3      1.3      5'.6
F. Bulk Storage Facilities    134.6    130.8         265.4   13.8    13.4    27.2
G. Electric Power
Distribution                107.8      49.0      156.8   11.1      5.0    16.1
It. Utilities and Services      248.9       9.3      258.2   25.5      1.0    26.5
I. Residential Colony           239.4       -        239.4   24.6       -      24.6
J. Technical Assistance and    29.2        24.4       53.6    3.0      2.5      5.5
Training
K. Engineering Services          77.0      25.4      102.4    7.9      2.6    1.0.5
Base Estimate              3,075.7  1,788.4   4,865.1  315.4   183.4   498.8
L. Contingencies
Physical                 134.5    103.4      237.9   13.8    10.6    24.4
Price                   510.9    296.6       807.5   52.4    30.4    82.8
Total Project Cost         3,721.1  2,188.4   5,909.5  381.6   224.4   606.0
M. Interest during
Construction               1,124.9      -      1,124.9  115.4       -      115.4
N. Front-end Fee on
IBRD Loan                   -          5.8       5.8    -        0.6      0.6
Total Financing
Required                  4,846.0  2,194.5   7,040.5  497.0   225.0   722.0
=e=-=;  ou=e_s:A  SZz==  m=C= i3= o



-19-
4.14      The base cost estimate was computed using mid-1983 prices after
completion of final design. Duties and taxes, estimated at US$76 million,
are included in the base estimate. The base cost reflects current pricee
for material and labor, and prices cited in bids received recently for com-
parable work and equipment. The provision for contingencies allows for (a)
physical variation of 8% in civil works and engineering services and 15% in
dredging; (b) annual price escalations in foreign costs of 6% in 1983/84,
7.5% in 1984/85 and 7% in 1985/86-1987/88; and (c) annual price escalations
in local costs of 8% in 1983/84, 7.5% in 1984/85, 7.0% in 1985/86, and 6% in
1986/87-1987/88. The estimate for the training program, which covers train-
ing of about 700 employees at all levels, provides for 144 man-months of
expatriate and 120 man-months of regional specialist's services, at US$12,000
and US$5,000 per man-month, respectively, and for 200 overseas fellowships
at US$6,000 each and local training of 500 employees at US$3,000 each. The
provision for technical assistance for studies includes 42 man-months of
expatriate specialist services at US$12,000 per man-month. The provision for
engineering services is based on the contract agreement reached with HIPL.
E. Financint Plan
4.15      The local costs of the project would be met mostly from funds which
NSPT intends to borrow from BPT and GOI. External financing is expected to
cover the full foreign costs and a small amount of local costs. Proposed
funding by the Bank Group would cover 47% of the estimated project cost, net
of taxes and duties. During negotiations, GOI expressed its intention to
seek cofinancing of about US$80 million for dredging and some items of equip-
ment. The sources of funds for the proposed project are as illustrated in
Table 4.2.
Table 4.2
Financing Plan for the Project
(US$ Million)
Bank Group             -   US$250 million
Bombay Port Trust      -   US$205 million
GOI & Co-financier    -   US$267 million
Total                       US$722 million
4.16    GOI would be the Borrower and the the proceeds would be on-lent to
NSPT under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.07(b)). The
BPT funds would be lent directly to NSPT with GOI serving as guarantor. NSPT
will borrow the remaining funds needed to complete the project from GOI under
a separate loan carrying terms satisfactory to the Bank Group (para 6.08(c)).
Satisfactory completion of the arrangements for the BPT loan, the on-lending
of Bank Group finance and the GOI balance loan would be conditions of effec-
tiveness of the proposed financing.



-20-
F.  Execution of the Proiect
4.17      NSPT will be responsible for implementing the proposed project in
accordance with the provisions of a Project Agreement to be executed by NSPT
and the Bank Group.
4.18      The consultants (HIPL) who carried out both the feasibility study
and the final engineering of the proposed project, have been retained by NSPT
to prepare bid documents, assist in evaluation of the bids, supervise the
contractors and provide general assistance to NSPT. During negotiations,
NSPT assured that it shaLl, from time to time, review the scope of the serv-
ices needed for any additional work in consultation with the Bank and would
retain short-term technical advisory services, as and when needed, to augment
staff with the requisite skills for implementing the project. NSPT also
ensured that the staff to be appointed by HIPL in senior supervisory posi-
tions shall have satisfactory qualifications and experience.
4.19      NSPT has established a PIU to coordinate and monitor the execution
of the proposed project and to supervise HIPL (para 3.12). The PIU reports
directly to NSPT' Deputy Chairman. The PIU's organization chart is ehown in
Chart 1, and all the positions have been filled.
4.20      In order to minimize the incidence of administrative delays to the
proposed project, GOI has constituted a seecial committee including the
secretaries of the Ministries of Finance, Shipping and Transport, Railways,
Commerce and Planning; this committee has been empowered to make whatever
administrative and policy decisions necessary for resolving inter-agency
problems promptly.  MOST has the authority to advance up to Re 50 million to
NSPT for preliminary expenses related to.the proposed project. A further
advance can be arranged if NSPT needs to spend more than that amount prior to
finalizing the project financing arrangements,
4.21      Initiation and implementation of the proposed project depend criti-
cally on lSPT's timely acquisition of land. In this regard, it has started
proceedings under the Lasd Acquisition Act (LAA). NSPT plans to acquire the
land required for the proposed project iu three phases. Because the compensa-
tion negotiated for the privately-owned land was much higher (about Rs 40,000
per acre) than what had been estimated earlier, MOST had to seek the approval
of the Public Investment Board (PIB) and the Cabinet before directing GOM to
take possession of the land and then transfer it to NSPT. Cabinet approval
has been obtained, and Phase I land acquisition for about 820 hectares of the
main port area (staging areas for the container and bulk berths, the con-
tainer yard, and the road and rail access) has been completed. During Phase
II, about 420 hectares (for the CFS) will be acquired; and during Phase III,
some 412 hectares (for the residential area) will be acquired. During nego-
tiations, agreemernt was reached with NSPT that phases II and III of the land
acquisition program shall be completed by June 30, 1984 and December 31,
1984, respectively.



-21-
G. Procurement
4.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below:
Table 4.3
Procurement Arrangements
(Estimated Cost in US$ Million)
Procurement Method        Total
Project Element                            ICB    LCB    Other   NA        Cost
Land Acquisition                            -        -      -      25        25
Civil Works                               265        -      -       -       265
(110)/a                           (110)
Dredging                                    -        -     36/b    -         36
Bulk handling equipment and
storage facilities                       101        -      -       -       101
( 60)      -      -       -       (60)
Container freight station                   -        7      -       -         7
-     ( 3)     -       -       (3)
Container handling equipment               45        -      -       -        45
( 30)      -      -       -       (30)
Workshop equipment                          8        -      -       -         8
g  4)      _      _       -       C  4)
Floating crafts                            18        -      -       -        18
,.                                 ( ~~~~~~~~~~~11)  - -      -(11)
Electrical works                           19        -      -       -        19
C  6)      -      -       -       (  6)
Residential colony                          -       30      -       -        30
Utilities, services and
environmental protection                   -       32      -       -        32
-     ( 6)     -       -       (6)
Technical assistance and training           -        -      8       -         8
-       -    ( 8)      -       (8)
Engineering services                        -        -     12       -        12
-       -    (12).    -        (12)
Total                                 463       69     56      25       606/c
(221)    ( 9)   (20)      -       (250)
/a  Figures in parentheses indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
/b To be arranged after securing financing by a co-lender (para 4.26).
_c Excluding interest during construction and Front-end Fee on IBRD loan.



-22-
4.23      Procurement for the main civil works contract., after prequalifica-
tion of bidders, would follow the Bank Group's guidelines for ICB. Pre-
qualified local contractors would be given a preference of 7-1/2., in accord-
ance with the guidelines. Dredging is a likely candidate for parallel
financing by a co-lender (para 4.15); however, in case it is not co-financed,
procuremsnt wouLd follow ICB after prequalification. Contract for the CFS
would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) satisfactory to the
Bank. Railway works would be carried out by IR through force account. Minor
civil works, utilities and services, the aggregate value of which shall not
exceed US$15 million equivalent, would be executed through LCB contracts or
force accourt.  All procurement of equipment would follow ICB without pre-
qualification. A preference equal to the lesser of 15% of cif cost or cus-
toms duties and taxes would be allowed for locally-manufactured equipment.
All Bank Group financed contracts with estimated value exceeding US$5.0
million for works and US$500,000 for goods would be subject to prior review,
resulting in coverage of about 80% of the estimated value of such contracts
for works as well as goods. Other contracts will be subject to selective
post-award reviews. NSPT has already appointed HIPL, the consultant who
produced the feasibility study, to complete the proposed project's detailed
engineering, prepare the bid documents and supervise the contracts. The
terms and conditions of their appointment are considered satisfactory. Con-
sultants for technical assistance and training would be selected in accord-
ance with the Bank Group's guidelines.
R. Disbursements
4.24      Although the average implementation period for transport projects
in South Asia, according to actual disbursement profiles, is about seven to
eight years, the proposed project will most likely be completed in a shorter
period. GOI is anxious to complete the project as quickly as possible in
order to alleviate the severe congestion, resulting from port traffic passing
through city streets, in downtown Bombay. Also, by adding substantial
capacity, GOI would reduce the likelihood of a new wave of extreme conges-
tion, with its detrimental effects on India's foreign trade at Bombay Port.
According to the Critical Path Method network prepared by NSPT's consultants,
the completion of berth construction and the supply and installation of
container and bulk handling equipment are estimated to take about three years
from the start of the civil works contract, scheduled for September 1984.
This construction and equipment will be procured according to ICB and con-
tractors, using modern equipment and work methods, will implement these
works.  Should completion be delayed by as much as a year, for whatever
reason, the proposed project could still be completed within four years. The
project implementation schedule shown in Chart 2 reflects completion of the
proposed project within four years, i.e., by September 1988. During nego-
tiations, the implementation schedule was discussed and agreed by NSPT.
4.25      The proceeds of the proposed Bank Group lending would be disbursed
according to Table 4.4. During negotiations, it was agreed, at the request



-23-
of the Indian delegation, that in the earlier stage of project implementa-
tion, the disbursements against civil works would be made at a higher per-
centage (70%) in order to enable NSPT to meet the larger foreign exchange
payments expected for the ICB contracts for such works.
Table 4.4
ProRosed Use of Proceeds of the Bank Group Financing
I. Civil and Allied Works
(a)                          70% of total cost
(b)                          22% of total cost
II.  Equipment and                      100% of foreign exchange expenditure
Floating Craft                     for imported goods
1002 of ex-factory cost for
locally-manufactured goods
70% of total cost for imported goods
procured locally.
III. Technical Assistance,               100% of total cost
Training and Engineering
Services
4.26      Disbursements in accordance with Table 4.4 would cover US$199.6
million of foreign exchange cost (including front-end fee) and US$50.4 mil-
lion equivalent of local cost. It is expected that the shortfall of US$26
million in foreign cost financing would be made up or likely exceeded by the
contribution of the co-lender. In the unlikely event that suitable cofinanc-
ing is not available, the gap in the foreign exchange resource would be
closed by reducing or eliminating the Bank Group financing of local costs.
An estimated Schedule of Disbursements, based on Table 4.4 and the Project
Implementation Schedule (Chart 2), is presented in Table B. As the project
implementation will likely be completed by September 30, 1988, March 31, 1989
would be the closing date for the proposed Bank Group financing.
4.27      An mnount of up to US$1.0 million is proposed to be retroactively
financed under the loan for expenditures incurred after June 1, 1982, to meet
some of NSPT's costs of engineering and technical assistance services and
training related to project preparation and implementation. During nego-
tiations, disbursement schedule was discussed and agreed with NSPT.
I. Monitoring
4.28      To enable the Bank Group to monitor implementation of the proposed
project, NSPT should: (a) furnish quarterly progress reports, with the



-24-
contents and presentation to be agreed prior to the effectiveness of the
proposed financing; (b) maintain separate accounts fully detailing expendi-
tures incurred for the proposed project (as well as proper accounts of all of
NSPT's financial activities), with provision for audit of the separate
project accounts by a satisfactory independent auditor; and (ce) prepare a
project completion report within siX months of the closing of the proposed
financing. At negotiations, NSPT agreed to the aforementioned monitoring
program.
J. Environmental Impact
4.29      The proposed project is not expected to have any significant
adverse impact on the environment. Neither construction of the marine struc-
tures, the dredging of the access channel south of Elephanta Island, nor the
disposal of the dredged spoil at selected rounds (selected on the basis of
hydraulic studies), should adversely affect either the natural flows or the
scouring of sediment in Bombay Harbor. Such causes of water pollution as
either run-off of spilled bulk fertilizer from the terminal, disposal of
shipbound and terminal sewage, or disposal of oil-y bilge water would be
neutralized through suitable facilities being provided under the project.
Because most of the bulk handling facilities will be enclosed, fertilizer and
sulfur dust are not likely to escape into and thereby pollute the ambient
air. At points where fertilizers and sulfur are transferred between
facilities in the open, the use of shrouds and cyclone separators should
reduce emissions to acceptable limits. Because it is located 8 kms away from
the port and separated from it by a hill and a green belt, the residential
colony should be effectively shielded from any residual dust emanating from
the bulk berths.
K. Port Efficiency Indicators
4.30      In the interest of operating efficiency and good management, NSPT
should compile data, at least quarterly, relating to the following: (a)
operational efficiency; (b) personnel productivity; (c) dwell time of cargo;
(d) turn-around time of vessels; and (e) berth occuparncy.  Some target
efficiency indicators are presented in Annex 2. At negotiations, NSPT under-
took to begin regular computation of efficiency indicators in a manner
acceptable to the Bank Group within three months of the facilities at Nhava
Sheva becoming operational.
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01    The project provides five types of quantifiable bonefits:  (a)
savings resulting from reduced ship waiting time; (b) reductions in cargo
handling costs; (c) savings (per ton of goods carried) resulting from using
larger vessels; (d) reduced cargo transit time; and (e) reduced cargo losses.



-25-
The contribution of each benefit stream to the present value of the project
benefits (using a discount rate of 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in India) Is shown in Table 5.1 below..
Table 5.1
Percentage Contribution to the Present Value of_ProJect Benefits
(Discount Rate =12%VG)
Benefit.s                                         Percent
Reduced Ship Waiting Times                                    34,7
Savings in Cargo Handling Costs                                21.2
Savings from Using Larger Vessels                             39.9
Reduced Cargo Delay                                            2.5
Reduced Cargo Loss                                             1.7
100.0
The methodology for calculating each individual cost and benefit stream,
together with the traffic projections (Table C), which underlie the economic
evaluation, is described in Annexes 3 and 4.
B. Economic Benefits
(a) Reduced Ship Waiting Time
5.02      The proposed port's most important benefits are the large potential
savings that could result by substantially reducing the time ships spend
waiting for a berth in Bombay. This is especially true for bulk carTiers and
general cargo vessels. As the volume of traffic through the Bombay port
complex increases, congestion would worsen and the costs related to waiting
time would increase exponentially. By providing new port facilities, the
proposed project would reduce ship waitiing time, thereby considerably redue-
ing the associated costs to vessels. The savings resulting from reduced
queueing time are estimated at Rs 185 million in 1988; they increase to Rs
728 million by 2000. A comparison of the type of vessels expected to call at
Bombay Port if the proposed project is not built and those vessels which
could be accommodated at Nhava Sheva, together with the estimated daiLy cost
of keeping them in port, is presented in Table D.  In computing savings
resulting from reduced ship waiting times, 25% of the cost of total port time
has been excluded from the computation since, on the average, this much time
is required for piloting, docking and waiting for a high tide, whether a ship



-26-
has to wait for a berth or not. Thus only the cost of ship waitlng in excess
of 25% of ship's port time has been accounted for.
5.03      Most of the container ships benefiting from the project would be
foreign-owned; therefore, tariffs for using the facilities provided under the
proposed project would be structured to permit recovery of a reasonable share
of the estimated benefits resulting from the reduced ship waiting time. In
the case of bulk cargo, vessels are mostly chartered. Therefore, full
benefits would accrue to the country. The economic analysis is based on the
assumption that only 50% of the savings resulting from reduced ship waiting
time would be realized in the first year and that this percentage would
increase to 100% by the fifth year of port operations at Nhava Sheva. In the
long run, due to sufficient competition among container and bulk carriers,
the proposed project's benefits would accrue to the port users in the form of
reduced shipping costs. The importer would then benefit from the lower total
cost of goods and would pass these savings on to the local economy, while
the exporter would enjoy the benefits of improved service resulting from
increased competitiveness.  A sensitivity analysis shows that, even if only
75% of these benefits are realized by the Indian economy, the economic rate
of return (ERR) of the project would be higher than the opportunity cost of
capital (para 5.09).
(b) Faster Cargo Handling
5.04      By installing container cranes and bulk loaders and conveyors at
Nhava Sheva, ships could turn around much faster at Nhava Sheva than at
Bombay Port, which uses older, slower techniques for loading and unloading
ships. The benefits resulting from faster cargo handling are computed by
comparing the cost of turnaround time for vessels calling at Bombay Port with
the cost incurred for turning around at Nhava Sheva. Annex 4, Section (B)
presents a comparison of the sizes of ships carrying dry buLk and containers
which are likely to call at both Bombay Port and Nhava Sheva as well as the
number of estimated ship calls and the assumed cargo handling rates for each
port. In the case of containers, as the benefits resulting from reduced ship
turnaround time would accrue mostly to foreign-owned ships, the same assump-
tions were used for transferring these benefits to the Indian economy as for
the case of the reduction in ship waiting time (para 5.03).
(c) Larger Vessels
5.05      The benefits of larger vessels are accrued in the form of lower
costs per ton to carry cargo on the larger vessels which would call at Nhava
Sheva as compared with the smaller ships which call at Bombay Port. Only the
voyage cost savings are included in the calculation of benefits. The sizes
of ships currently calling at Bombay Port are relatively small due to draft
limitations and slow ship turnaround time. The average sizes of bulk car-
riers and container ships calling at Bombay Port are 16,800 dw't and 15,000
dwt, respectively, as compared with the 22,000 dwt and 20,000 dwt vessels
that Nhava Sheva will service in 1988.  By 1996, Nhava Sheva is expected to
be able to accommodate 30,000 dwt bulk carriers and 28,000 dwt container



-27-
ships. The cost per ton of saving,, derived separately for bulk commodities
and containerized cargoes, is shown in Table E.
(d)  Reduced Cargo Delay (Time Value of Cargo)
5.06      The modern facilities provided under the project, including the
transit sheds, container freight station, railway flatcars, and containers
and hopper wagons, would reduce considerably the transit time for cargo at
Nhava Sheva as compared with the transit time at Bombay Port. In the opening
year the average saving of transit time for bulk cargo and containers has
been estimated conservatively at eight days and three days, respectively.
These values for bulk and containerized cargo are shown in Table F. The
potential saving for bulk commodities amounts to about Rs 3.9 per ton, while
the similar saving for containerized cargo is about Rs 8 per ton.
(e) Reduced Cargo Loss
5.07      The mechanized handling facilities planned for Nhava Sheva would
prevent much of the loss and damage to cargo currently being expeTienced due
to manual handling of cargo at Bombay Port.  Losses of fertilizers,
foodgrains and containerized cargoes would be reduced significantly.
However, the economic analysis was based on a more conservative assumption
that cargo losses would amount to about 0.4% of the estimated value of total
throughput. Applying this percentage to the projected tonnage and the
estimated value per ton of both containerized and bulk cargoes yields the
annual savings.
C. Project Costs
5.08      The proposed project's economic costs include the cost of civil
works, equipment, related engineering services, land acquisition and physlcal
contingencies. The foreign exchange cost has been shadow priced at 1.25 to
adjust for the relative value of the Rupee. Taxes and duties have been
excluded.
D.  Economic Returns, Sensitivity and Risks
5.09      The proposed project's estimated ERR is 20%.  If only 75% of the
ship-related benefits are taken into account, the ERR would decrease to 15%.
If the costs increase by 15% or 25%, the ERRs would be 18% and 16%, respec-
tively. If the costs increase by 15% while the benefits decrease by the same
amount, the ERR still yields an acceptable 15%. If the project is Imple-
mented over a six-year period and benefits delayed by two years, the ERR
would be 17%. The switch value analysis indicates that if the costs increase
by 40%, the net present value (NPV) (discounted at 12%) becomes zero. The
risk analysis undertaken yields a 4% probability of a zero NPV (12% ERR), a
better than 25% probability of an ERR over 20%, and a mean ERR of 18%. The
detailed calculations are available in the project file (Annex 5).



-28-
E. Unquantifiable Benefits
5.10      The quantifiable benefits implied in the ERR do not take into
account substantial benefits that could be obtained under the proposed
project. Without the project the port-generated traffic expected in Bombay
would severely strain the already congested city streets (para 3.03), adding
enormous costs to the economy. Such congestion costs that would be avoided
with the provision of new port facilities at Nhava Sheva have not been quan-
tified. Nor have the benefits of relief in the central city that would
result from the relocation of existing warehouses, wholesalers and other
port-related activities from Bombay to Nhava Sheva been quantified.
Similarly, the benefits of the catalytic role that Nhava Sheva Port would
play in supporting GOI's policy of developing a secondary growth center at
New Bombay in the immediate vicinity of Nhava Sheva have not been quantified,
even though the new port would provide considerable employment opportunities
during and after construction. Furthermore, the proposed project reinforces
GOI efforts to establish new industries In the hinterland of Nhava Sheva; the
effects of this GOI policy have not been quantified. In view of these
unquantified benefits and the acceptable ERRs obtained under various assump-
tions (para 5.09), the project is well-justified.
VI. FINANCE
A. Introduction - Past and Present Financial Situation
6.01      NSPT was formed in May 1982 (para 3.12) and, therefore, does not
have a financial history. For the time being, MOST is meeting NSPT's expen-
ses from its own budget. The vast majority of those expenses are being met
from an advance of Rs 50 million which GOI has made available specifically
for the development of the proposed project. The nominal remainder, which
could not properly be considered as development expenses, is being met from
MOST's administrative budget. NSPT will have to account for these defrayals
of administrative expenses as though they were grants. The accumulation of
these defrayals, which could reach as high as Rs 25.7 million by the end of
FY87, will constitute NSPT's paid-in capital.
6.02      NSPT has a well-qualified Finance Manager.  During this development
period and later during construction, he will head a small staff concerned
primarily with allocating costs and paying bills. Prior to the port's com-
missioning, NSPT will use GOI's standard system of accounting for the port
subsector. This system is satisfactory for the construction period; however,
both NSPT and the Bank Group were concerned that the system may need
modification to optimize its usefulness to an operating port charged with
monitoring the financial performance of a wide variety of specialized,
highly-mechanized operations. At negotiations, NSPT undertook to develop, as
part of the OMF Study (para 3.14), an accounting system related to the one
currently in use in the port subsector, appropriately tailored to NSPT's



-29-
expected operational requirements; the new system would be introduced into
operations prior to the port's commissioning.
6.03      Indian ports have their annual accounts audited by GOI's Controller
and Auditor General. NSPT agreed to have its annual accounts audited and to
furnish them, together with the audit report, to the Bank within nine months
of the close of each financial year.  ln its current skeletal posture, NSPT
does not have an internal audit department and does not contemplate having
one during the early stages of project implementation. The OMF Study will be
expected to recommend an appropriate organization structure for an internal
audit department, together with job manuals specifying the scope of respon-
sibility for the department as a whole and for individuals working within the
department.
B. Financial Resources
6.04      Throughout most of the period FY84-FY88, NSPT will confine its
activities almost exclusively to project implementation. As a result, NSPT's
financing plan for this period, as displayed in Table 6.1, vill relate
closely with the financing plan for the project (para 4.15). MOST will very
likely meet NSPT's nominal operating, working capital and liquidity require-
ments during this period from its own operating budget (para 6.02).
6.05      During the first half of FY88, while the finishing touches are
being applied to the civil works, NSPT will begin receiving and servicing
ships. During the second half of FY88, construction wlll have been completed
and the pace of port operations is expected to accelerate. Financially,
however, NSPT will show a full year's construction combined with an
abbreviated year's operations in FY88. This anomaly results from several
accounting conventions including (a) recognizing the cost of each discrete
segment of construction when it is billed, normally a number of weeks after
that segment has been completed; (b) recognizing the cost covered by reten-
tion payments after the contractors have been released from further
liability, about six months to oue year after the conclusion of heavy con-
struction; and (c) recognizing operating revenues and costs as incurred.
6.06      Because of these accounting conventions which apply only to FY88,
the financing plan for the FY84-FY88 period indicates that 3.6% of NSPT's
financing requirements would be met from internal sources of cash.  This
internally generated cash cannot he used to finance the project; however, it
will finance the working capital that NSPT needs to open its operations and
the reserve needed to cushion the severe cash flow constraints expected in
FY89 and FY90.



-30-
Table 6.1
NSPT'S Finarcing Plan for FY84-FY88
(RS Million)
FY84-88                  %
Funds Requited
Proposed Project /a                               5,950.3                 80.8
Interest during Construction                      1,124.9                 15.3
Working Capital Increases                            81.5                  1.1
Cash Increases                                      209.8                  2.8
Total Requirements                                7,366.5                100.0
Sources of Funds
Cash Generated Internally                           265.7                  3.6
On-lent Bank Group Finance /b                     2,914.8                 39.6
Bombay Port Trust Loan /c                         2,351.4                 31.9
Subord. GOI Balance Loan Jd                       1,808.9                24.6
Paid-In Capital                                      25.7                  0.3
Total Sources                                     7,366.5                100.0
/a  This figure differs from the one presented in Table 4.2 because it
includes NSPT's overhead incurred during the perlod in connection with
the proposed project, the assets and liabilities whereof are only being
transferred to NSPT's accounts in PY84.
/b  Includes Rs 2,437.5 million in principal and Rs 477.3 million in
accrued interest.
Xc  Includes Rs 2,000.0 million in principal and Rs 351.4 million in
accrued interest.
/d  Includes Rs 1,512.7 million in principal and Rs 296.2 million in
accrued Interest.
6.07      GOI has been planning to finance the proposed project entirely with
long-term debt, This financing pattern is consistent with clearly defined
GOI policies, which preclude the use grants or equity investments for financ-
ing projects in the port subsector. GOI expressed its intention that NSPT
obtain loans from three distinctly separate sources to meet the proposed
project's Rs 5,950.3 million investment requirement:
(a) BPT would lend NSPT Rs 2,000 million. The loan, carrying an
interest rate of 10%, would be extended for 15 years, including
five years of grace on both Interest and princlpal repayments
(interest would accrue during the grace period);



-31-
(b) The Bank Group would make available Rs 2,437.5 million (US$250
million) to GOI.  In turn, GOI would on-lend the proceeds to NSPT
for 25 years, including five years of grace on interest and
principal repayment, at 11.5% per annum (interest would accrue
during the grace period); and
(c)  GOI would lend the balance of the funds needed to implement the
proposed project, estimated at Rs 1,512o7 million, to NSPT for
25 years, including ten years of grace on interest and
principal repaymenits, at 10.25% per annum (interest would
accrue during the grace period). This loan would be
subordinated to both the on-lent Bank Group financing and the
BPT loan meaning that, in any year when NSPT fails to realize
cash flow sufficient to meet its full debt service
requirements, it will meet in full its obligations relating to
the other two loans prior to servicing the GOI balance loan.
6.08      Because NSPT is a semi-governmental body created by government
order and not a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, it cannot
enter into a formal loan agreement with GOl or BPT. In lieu of formal agree-
ments, GOI will create a Financing Arrangement which would cover all of
NSPT's funding requirements. Conclusion of a satisfactory Financing Arrange-
ment is a condition of loan effectiveness.
6.09      At postappraisal, GOI agreed, in principle, with the Bank Group's
suggestion that due to the substantial interest in the proposed project, a
component of co-financing would be sought for the project. At negotiations,
GOI gave an undertaking to seek parallel financing of about US$80 million for
dredging and procurement of some items of equipment. The proceeds would be
on-lent to NSPT, either as a component of the subordinated GOI balance loan,
or on even more concessionary terms. As a result, the FY84-FY88 financing
plan presented in Table 6.1 remains a good projection of NSPT's sources and
application of funds for the period, the introduction of parallel financing
notwithstanding. At negotiations, GOI agreed that it will make available to
NSPT all financing necessary to complete the project, including all foreign
exchange not covered by the Bank Group's or the co-lenders' financing.
6.10      NSPT's financing plan depends entirely on debt financing because
GOI has clearly stated policies which preclude the use of grants or equity
to finance projects in the port subsector. Normally such a flnancing plan
would cause serious concern, especially because of its impact on the capital
structure of a fledgling implementing agency like NSPT. The heavy debt
service burden requires NSPT to generate substantial cash flow in accordance
with a fixed schedule; yet NSPT cannot be assured of realizing sufficient
revenues to meet that debt service burden, especially in the early years of
port operations. As a result, NSPT might lack the resilience needed to
maintain its financial viability in case of unexpected negative developments.
6.11      In fact, NSPT's principal lender, GOI, is also its owner.  Aware
and concerned about NSPT%s weak capital structure, GOI has granted a highly



-32-
concessionary ten-year grace period on its balance loan and has indicated
that it might extend by two years the grace period for servicing the on-lent
proceeds of the Bank Group's financing.  Although the BPT loan will contain
only a five-year grace period, BPT does function under the authority of MOST,
NSPT's parent ministry; thus, BPT would have little option but to extend the
grace period, if necessary. In short, all of NSPT's lendeTs are sensitive to
NSPT's expected cash flow constraints. The subordination of the GOI balance
loan allows it to be considered as in lieu of equity. Also, at negotiations,
GOI agreed that NSPT maintain its tariff at satisfactory levels (para 6.23).
Thus, the Bank Group can accept NSPT's proposed financing plan for the period
FY84-FY88.
C. Pricing
6.12    As NSPT does not (and will not, for at least another 42 months) have
an operating history, few conclusions can be reached regarding its pricing
policy, except that it will be deriving a pricing structure especially
tailored to the facilities and services which the proposed project is provid-
ing. 1/ The resultant tariff will need to reflect the following concerns:
(a) it will need to be competitive, offering clear economic and
financial incentives to attract the type of traffic which it has
been designed to service while discouraging the port'B use by other
less desirable vessels;
(b) it should have a revenue generating potential sufficient to cover
operating expenses and meet NSPT's projected heavy debt service
burden; and
(c) its components should bear a close relationship to the costs, so as
to discourage institutionalizing inefficiency.
At negotiations, NSPT agreed that its tariff wouild satisfy these objectives
(para 6.23). For appraisal purposes, to test the financial viability of the
project, assumptions with regard to pricing, which may be more conservative
than is warranted based on expectations of NSPT's operating effectiveness and
the competitive environment, were made. The discussion which follows
describes in detail the basis of those pricing assumptions.
1/ Under the Major Ports Trust Act, NSPT (or, for that matter, any other
Port Trust) has the responsibility for determining its own pricing. Once
the Board of Trustees approves a proposal to adjust the Port Trust's
tariff structure, it puts that proposal before MOST, which has the
authority to approve, reject, or recommend adjustments to the proposal;
still, the initiatlve with regard to pricing rests with the Port Trust
itself.



-33-
6.13      In the early stages of port operations, when NSPT will need to
emphasize developing its clientele, it will be competing directly with BPT to
attract fully containerized cargo and some bulk cargo.   As BPT iB an estab-
lished facility already enjoying comfortable working relationships with the
area's shipping agents, freight forwarders and other cargo handlers, NSPT
will have to prove that it can provide better service at lower cost to the
shipper; consequently, even though NSPT expects to provide users with sub-
stantially better service, its rateB could not be projected to exceed those
which BPT will be charging for similar services.
6.14      In PY82, the last year for which complete data were available, BPT
and affiliated concessionaires were realizing average revenues for con-
tainerized cargo of about Rs 36/ton from vessel charges and about Rs 149/ton
In consignee charges. In addition, BPT was charging consignees an average of
about Rs 65/ton for stuffing and stripping of containers; however, that
component of revenue Is not germane to this analysis since NSPT will
emphasize the development of FCL traffic, and since LCL consignees will pay
stuffing and stripping charges to the concessionaire operating the CFS and
not to NSPT. Thus, in PY82, BPT and affiliated concessionaires were realiz-
ing revenues of about Rs 185/ton for services, comparable to those which NSPT
plans to provide, related to the handling of containerized cargoes.
6.15      During the last year, BPT undertook a tariff review.  As a result,
on August 8, 1983, its Board of Trustees approved a proposal to increase all
berthing and some wharfage charges by an average of 110%. While the details
of the proposed increase are not yet available, MOST affirms that it will add
about Re 25/ton realizable from vessel charges and about Rs 45/ton realizable
from consignee charges to revenues expected from containerized cargoes.
Thus, BPT and affiliated cencessionaires would probably be realizing revenues
of Rs 255/ton for services, comparable to those which NSPT plans to provide,
related to the handling of containerized cargoes. MOST approved this
proposal in October 1983.
6.16      In FY82, for fertilizers received in bulk, BPT was realizing
aggregate revenues of about Rs 120/ton, composed of about Re 36/ton in vessel
charges and about Rs 84/ton in consignee charges. 1/ The tariff increase
will likely add another Rs 25/ton in vessel charges and about Rs 5/ton in
consignee charges. Thus, BPT may now expect to realize revenues of about Rs
150/ton for bulk fertilizer.
6.17      BPT will be implementing these higher prices in FY84.  Yet, NSPT
will not begin receiving ships or handling cargo until FY88. Inflation of
about 30% is projected for the interim pL:riod.  If the real value of the new
charges is to be maintained into FY88, BPT and affiliated consignees should
be realizing revenues of about Re 330/ton for services, comparable to those
1/ Exclusive of charges for bagging.



-34-
which NSPT plans to provide, related to the handling of containerized cargo
and about Rs 195 per ton for bulk fertilizer.
6.18      For projecting NSPT's revenues in FY88, pricing levels of Re
300/ton for containerized cargo and Rs 162/ton for bulk cargo were assumed.
These conservativ- levels are projected even though NSPT expected to handle
its throughput much wore efficiently than BPT. These prices should,re6ult in
highly significant financial incentives for desired carriers and shippers to
call at Nhava Sheva. Between FY88-FY91, due to NSPT's heavy cash- flow
requireaents to meet debt service, regular increases maintaining the real
value of NSPT's containeri2ed cargo tariff were assumed; thereafter, con-
tainerized cargo rates were held constant until FY94 when an increase of
about 3% was assumed. The bulk rate was held constant between FYJ8 and FY93;
an increase of about 11% was assumed to go into effect in FY94. These latter
increases are needed to enable NSPT to generate additional cash for servicing
the GOI balance loan, payments against which are scheduled to begin in FY94.
This pricing structure should be high enough so that NSPT ran meet its heavy
cost of borrowing In the early years; in later years, when inflation causes
the impact of operating costs to increase and the impact of debt service to
decrease, the tariff may even decrease in real terms. Table 6.2 illustrates
these aggregate pricing levels for containerized and bulk cargoes, expressed
In both current terms and constant FY84 values:



-35-
Table 6.2
Aggregate NSPT Price Lievels
Containerized and Bulk Cargoes F'188-FY96
(Rs/Ton)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
Inflation index /a      1.34  1.42  1.51  1.60  1.70  1.80  1.91  2.02  2.14
Containerized Cargo
Current Price           300   318   336   350   350   350   360   360   360
Constant FY84 Price    235   234   233   229   216   203   198   187   176
BPT FY84 Price /b       255   255   255   255   255   255   255   255   255
Bulk Cargo
Current Price           162   162   162   162   162   162   180   180   180
Constant FY84 Price    127   119   112   106   100    94    99    93    88
BPT FY84 Price /c       150   150   150   150   150   150   150   150   150
/a  The inflation index for FY84   1.03.
lb  The tariff increase, approved by BPT's Board of Trustees on August 8,
1983, is expected to increase revenues for comparable services to
about Rs 255/ton.
ic  The tariff inerease, approved by BPT's Board of Trustees on August 8,
1983 Is expected to increase revenues for bulk fertilizer to abcut
Rs 150/ton.
D. Future Finance
6.19      Complete projections of NSPT's financial performance for the period
FY84-FY96 are displayed in Annexes 6 to 9. These projections are based on
assumptions detailed i  Annex 10.   The most salient highlights are shown in
Table 6.3.



-36-
Table 6. 3
NSPT Ftnancial Highlights FY88-Ey96
(Rs Million)
Year Ended March 31                        FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91     PY92     PY93      FY94     PY95     FY96
Containerized Cargo (million tons)        0.780    1.400    1.700    1.900    2.200    2.500    3.000    3.500    4.000
Bulk Cargo (million tons)                 1.000    2.452    2.604    2.756    2.908    3.060    3.279    3.496    3.715
Container Revenue                         234.0    445.2    571.2    665.0    770.0    875.0  1,080.0  1,260.0  1,440.0
Bulk Revenue                              162.0    397.2    421.8    446.5    471.1    495.7    590.2    629.3    668.7
Total Operating Revenue                   436.0    882.4  1,039.0  1,157.5  1,287.1  1,423.6  1,723.1  1,942.2  2,169.5
Direct Expenses           d               173.2    198.9    214.8    230.7    248.9    278.5    331.2    358.7    411.6
General & Administrative                    4.3       8.8     10.3      12.3     14.1      16.2     20.2     23.7     27.6
De--eciation                              173.3    173.3    173.3    173.3    173.3    1'9.0    190.2    190.2    206.3
Operatit4s Surplus                         85.2    501.4    640.7    741.2    850.8    950.0  1,181.5  1,369.6  1,524.0
Intereat Chargeable                       338.4    792.0    791.3    790.5    789.7    788.6    787.5    743.9    696.0
Net Revenues                             (240.6)  (278.4)  (134.8)   (21.4)   109.7    226.4    436.6   687.7    883.2
Cash from Internal Sources                271.1    686.9    829.8    942.5  1,072.7  1,194.0  1,414.3  1,621.9  1,785.6
Less: Met Debt Service                        0    797.1    797.1    797.1    797.1    797.1  1,208.0  1,208.0  1,208.0
Less: Working Capital Increase             77.9      41.2     16.3      13.3     14.5     18.9      37.6     23.7     31.8
Internal Cash Generation                  193.2   (152.6)    15.2    130.9    259.9    383.8    108.4    329.9   485.5
Capital Works                           1,153.9         0        0         0        0    231.8    458.5         0    657.2
External Financing                      1,153.8         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Cash Change for Year                      193.1   (151.4)    16.2    132.1    261.1    146.2   (289.8)   390.2   (114.4)
Invested Cash Balance                     209.8      58.4     74.8    206.9    468.0    614.2    324.4    714.6   603.2
Retained Earnings                        (246.0)  (524.4)  (659.2)  (680.6)  (570.9)  (344.5)    92.1    779.8  1,663.0
Working Ratio                              40.7      23.5     21.7      21.0     20.4     20.7      20.4     19.7     20.2
Operating Ratio                            80.5      43.2     38.3      36.0     33.9     33.3      31.4     29.5     29.8
ROR on Historically Valtned Assets (Z)      2.5       7.4      9.6      11.5     13.5     15.2      18.5     21.3     23.2
ROR on Revalued Assets (Z)                  2.5       7.0      8.5      9.4      10.3     10.8      12.5     13,6     14.0
Debt Service Coverage                         -       0.8      1.0      1.1       1.3      1.4       1.1      1.3      1.4
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



-37-
6.20      As illustrated in Table 6.3, NSPT can expect significant accrual
deficits in the four years FY88-FY91. NSPT is projected to approach the
break-even point in FY91 and show significant profitability thereafter.  On a
cash flow baais, NSPT will realize a deficit of cash for internal uses only
in FY89. 1/ This discrepancy arises because, between FY88 and FY93, NSPT
will haves Lo charge interest on the GOI balance loan to operations, even
though this interest will not'be payable in cash but will instead be added to
the principal of the loan. Thus, NSPT's FY88, FY0D and FY91 income statement
deficits result from non-cash expenditures and shouJ3d not cause concern.
Even the larger FY89 deficit, which is coincident with a casb flow shortfall,
should not cause much concern; in FY88, NSPT is expected to build a cash
reserve sufficient to weather a bad year in FY89 and provide still additional
cushion for any unexpected setbacks in FY90 and FY91.
6.21      NSPT's projections show low working and operating ratios for the
period. This results from assuming prices which are high relative to operat-
ing costs; 2/ however, NSPT will need the revenue to generate cash reserves
sufficient to meet net annual debt service requirements of about Rs 797
million during the FY89-FY93 period and Rs 1,208 million thereafter. In
fact, this faverable projected financial performance depends critlcally on
the confluence of three events:
(a) NSPT must complete construction in accordance with the project
implementation schedule. This would permit NSPT to operate,
developing its clientele and a substantial reserve of cash, for
one full year before it must begin servicing its debt. NSFT's
significant projected cash flow deficit for FY89 underscores the
importance of an early effective beginning of operations. A delay
of one year in completing construction is expected to result in
NSPT facing a cash shortfall of about Rs 590 million. A second
year's delay is expected to increase the shortfall to about
RB 750 million;
1/  The projections show NSPT also realizing cash flow deficits in FY94 and
FY96. Should its traffic grow as projected, NSPT plans to add to its
facilities in those years. Because it is projecting having substantial
reserves of invested cash, NSPT is planning to finance these investments
entirely from those funds. Should NSPT be unable to finance these
investments using its own resources, it can either postpone the work or
borrow the necessary funds.
2/ These ratios also suggest higher operating efficiencies than normal in
the Indian port subsector. The proposed project will provide the
facilities and training so that the assumed efficiencies are attainable;
however, should these efficiencies prove elusive, the assumed pricing
structure contains scope for increases as needed (Table 6.2).



-38-
(b)  NSPT's traffic must develop as projected.  Should the traffic
not develop, due either to NSPT's failure to deliver efficient
service, or to conditions beyond NSPT's control, NSPT will face a
fixed schedule of debt service payments without the necessary cash
flow or reserves. Should traffic develop 25% more slowly than
projected, NSPT would be expected to achieve financial viability
only in FY95 or FY96, rather than in FY90 as projected herein; and
(c)  NSPT must maintain both the revenue generating potential and .-he
competitive advantage of the assumed pricing structure, at least
until it has developed cash reserves sufflcient to counter thie
constraints caused by its highly leveraged capital structure.
6.22      GOI and NSPT both need to establish a program for addressing the
immediate and urgent cash flow consequences, should the aforementioned risks
materialize. In either event, NSPT should still be generating revenues
sufficient to enable comfortable coverage of its operatinig costs; however, it
will need relief from its considerable debt service burden.  To address these
risks, MOST has already sought the cooperation of NSPT's lenders to assure
that grace periods are either long enough or flexible enough (para 6.11) to
permit relaxing the debt service burden should construction take longer or
traffic develop more slowly than expected. These particular steps, which
effectively allow NSPT to schedule its debt at a time when it can quantify
and resolve its shortcomings, should be sufficient to assure NSPT's financial
viability under most eventualities. In addition, MOST can, and is willing,
to support NSPT in periods of weakness. At negotiations, GOI undertook that
It will make cash advances available to NSFT to cover cash flow deficits. So
that NSPT does not regard this undertaking of support as license to spend
without regard for efficiency or cost-consciousness, MOST has developed a
procedure which will become part of the budget process for predetermining
GOI's financial relief to NSPT as a function of shortfalls in traffic.  At
negotiations, GOI undertook to follow this procedure.
6.23      In view of BPT's tariff increase which MOST has recently approved,
conditions appear favorabe for NSPT to be able to charge competitive prices
and still realize satisfactory financial performance. At negotiations, NSPT
agreed that, beginning in FY90, it will maintain its tariffs at levels which
would enable realization of revenues sufficient to cover all operating costs
and debt service, and provide as much contribution to futur.e investment in
expansion of capacity, as is reasonably possible under competitive condi-
tions. NSPT also agreed that its tariff structure would be derived so that
activities would be priced in relation to their costs under conditions of
reasonably efficient operations.  Due to the expected intense competition
between NSPT and BPT for traffic, which competition would undoubtedly have an
important bearing on NSPT's level and structure of prices, NSPT was not asked
to agree to specific rate of return targets; still, it would be expected to
realize reasonable rates of return with general ranges being agreed peri-
odically at tariff reviews between NSPT and H4OST. Finally, NSPT agreed to
endeavor to achieve operating ratios of 1.0 In FY88 and 0.6 in FY89.



-39-
6.24      The projections show that if NSPT complies with the agreement
regarding tariffs outlined In the preceding paragraph, it will be realizing
rates of return exceeding 9% on notionally revalued assets after FY90 (Annex
8). This performance wouLd be satisfactory. GOI does not generally accept
the practice of asset revaluation. In this case, this practice is not criti-
cal given that NSPT will not be owning old, undervalued asseLs during the
foreseeabLe future. Also, the practice is not essential given that no agree-
ment relating fiiancial performance to asset value is contemplated.
6.25      Throughout the projection period, NSPT will need to generate sub-
stantial cash to cover its annual net debt service.  At negotiations, NSPT
agreed that it will not incur any debt, other than that included in the
Financing Arrangement in order td complete the project, exceeding US$10
million equivalent in any single year or US$30 million equivalent In the
aggregate, unless the internal cash generation during .the previous 12 months
exceeds 1.2 times the expectedlmaximum debt service reiquirement.
E. Sensitivity
6.26     NESPT's financial performance is most sensitive to NSPT's completion
of construction on schedule (para 6.21). Failure to do so would prevent NSPT
from realizing the cash reserves needed to, overcome the cash flow constraints
expected in FY89 and FY90. GOI has addressed this problem by asking NSPT's
lenders to provide either long or flexible grace periods on debt service
(para 6.08).  Though not as seriously, NSPT's financial performance is sensi-
tive to traffic developing as forecast (para 6.21). GOI has addressed this
problem by developing a procedure for providing NSPT with financial support
directly tied to levels of traffic (para 6.22). NSPT's financial performance
is also sensitive to the adequacy of its pricing structure. This problem is
being addressed by the tariff agreements reached at negotiations (paras 6.23
and 6.25).
F. Internal Financial Rate of Return
6.27      The proposed project's internal financial rate of return, through
the financial year 2013, is projected at about 12.1. lhis was computed by
equating the expected capital and recurrent cost streams with the revenue
stream associated with the proposed facilities (Annex 11). Capital costs do
include expected additions and replacements, as well as major maintenance to
the facilities being provided under the proposed project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOINENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following agreements and understandings
have been reached with GOI/NSPT:



-40-
(a)  NSPT would undertake a comprehensive OMF Study, in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank Group, and would
implemenlt the Study's recommendations acceptable to GOI (paras
3.14 and 6.02);
(b) NSPT confirmed that it hse, sufficient authority and powers for
timely execution of the project and operation of the port
(para 3.15);
(c) NSPT/GOI would examine, in consultation with the Major Ports
Reform Committee, the desirability of leasing a substantial
portion of CFS to the private sector and prepare, by
September 30, 1986, a detailed plan for the operation of
CFS (para 4.06);
(d)  NSPT/GOI confirmed that the IR would commence operating unit
trains between Bombay and New Delhi in March 1984;
(e) NSPT/GO1 would, by March 1985, prepare and review an action
plan for railway operations within the port and along the
main trunkline services to Delhi in order to equlp IR with
adequate plant/equipment facilities and modern rolling stock
to carry Bombay/Nhava Sheva port traffic (para 4.08);
(f) G01 would establish, by June 30, 1984, a coordinating group
consisting of representatives of GOM, NSPT, the Maharashtra Water
Supply and Sewerage Board, the Maharashtra State Electricity
Board, and the Post and Telegraph Department to monitor the
progress on the provision of the utility services to Nhava Sheva
Port (para 4.09);
(g)  NSPT would (i) implement a training program satisfactory to the
Bank Group; (ii) prepare a Container Operations Manual; and
(iii) carry out a survey to refine traffic forecasts and select
consultants for technical assistance and training in accordauce
with the Bank Group's guidelines (paras 4.10 and 4.11);
(h) GOI would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to NSPT under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paras 4.16 and
6.07 (b)) and terms for the remaining loans would be satisfactory
to the Bank (paras 4.16 and 6.07 (c)). Satisfactory completion
of the arrangements for the BFT loan, the on-lending of Bank
Group finance, and the GOI balance loan would be conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed financing;
(i) GOI would seek cofinancing for dredging and some items of
equipment amounting to about US$80 million (para 4.15);



-41-
(j)  NSPT would review the scope of the services needed for any
additional work in consultation with the Baak and would
retain short-term technical services, as and when needed,
and would ensure that the staff to be appointed by IIPL
in senior supervisory positions shall have satisfactory
qualifications and experience (para 4.18);
(k) NSPT would complete its (i) Phase II of the land acquisition
program by June 30, 1984, and Cii) Phase III of the program
by December 31, 1984 (para 4.21);
(1) NSPT would (i) furnish quarterly progress reports; (b) maintain
separate project accounts; and (c) prepare a project completion
report (para 4.28);
(m)  NSPT would begin regular computation of efficiency indicators in
a manner acceptable to the Bank Group within three montbs of the
facilities at Nhava Sheva becoming operational (para 4.30);
(n)  INSPT would furnish to the Bank Group its audited stat'ements of
annual accounts, together with audit report within nine months of
the close of each financial year (para 6.03);
(o)  GOI would undertake to make available to NSPT ways and means
advances to cover cash flow deficits, as necessary (para 6.22);
(p) NSPT would, beginning in FY90, maintain its tariffs at levels
which would enable realization of revenues sufficient to cover
all operating costs and debt service, and also yield a reasonable
contribution to future investment for expansion of facilities;
and structured in such a way, as to be related to costs under
conditions of efficient operations (para 6.23); and
(q)  NSPT would not incur any debt (other than that required for    -
completing the project) exceeding US$10 million equivalent in any
single year or US$30 million equivalent in the aggregate, unless
the internal cash generation during the previous 12 months
exceeds 1.2 times the expected maximum debt service requirenents
(para 6.25).
7.02      Retroactive financing up to US$1.0 million should be provided for
eligible expenditures incurred by INSPT after June 1, 1982 for engineering
services, technical assistance and training (paTa 4.27).
7.03      Satisfactory completion of agreements for (a) on-lending of Bank
Group's financing; (b) BPT loan; and (c) the balance loan from GOI should be
a condition of effectiveness of the Bank GrDup's lending.
7.04      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bankl loan of
US$250.0 million equivalent to the Government of India.



-42-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
NHAVA SiEVA PORT PROJECT
Outline Requirements fOT a Training Program
for the Staff of Nhava Sheva Port
The training concept for this port is based on a multi-step
selection, introduction, practical training, test and evaluation approach
which could be prepared in consultation with a modern port abroad.
(a)  Selection of candidates based on review of experience,
qualifications and tests or interviews;
(b) Development of formal training courses, including training
material;
(c)  Formal in-class training by lectures and discussions
including homework assignments;
(d)  Case studies and/or problem-solving sessions using actual
situations reports, problem statements, etc.;
(e) Practical or Hands-on training. Here we expect trainees to
be paired with an experienced person performing his/her designated job in
a realistic day-to-day environment.  Practical or hands-on training may
not necessarily involve actual decision-making or equipment operation by
trainees, but should allow for trainees presence in the decision-making or
operating environment to allow him/her to accurately observe and learn how
operational and other decisions are made. A detailed record of problem
statements, information availability and use, basis for decision and
results of decision will be designed so that trainees are forced to study
problems, think problems through, and rationalize the decision process.
&s part of the practical or hands-on training, there will be a periodic
review of problem-solving during which trainees will analyze problems,
develop step-by-step solutions and a rationale for their proposed
approaches.
(f) Test aad Evaluation of trainees progress and cotpetence.
Periodic tests and evaluations are suggested:
(i)  during and at the end of the formal in-class training;
(ii)  during and at the end of the practical or hands-on
training; and
(iii)  final competence test on return to Nhava Sheva in the
actual Nhava Sheva operating environment.
The above tests and evaluations will be simple tests of competence
designed to assure that the trainee will be able to perform his assigned
duties reliably and effectively.



-43-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
NSPT shall seek assistance of modern port/agency in the designing of
the training program. It shall seek collaboration of modern
ports/agencies for training of its staff as envisaged in this annex.
Program Elements
1.      Port Management
Training of Middle and Upper Management staff would involve course
work at an established port management training institute followed by
practical experience management with the assistance of other advanced
ports.
This training vill be in the following major areas:
(a)  Port Management
(b)  Port Administrative Management
(c)  Port Personnel Management
(d)  Port Accounting Management
(e)  Port Management Services Management
(f)  Port Security Management
(g)  Computer Center Management and Operations
(I) Management Information Systems Management and Operations
(i) Statistical and Accounting Service Management and
Operations
2.      Operations Management
Training of operations management staff such as traffic,
maintenance, terminal, etc., would involve formal course work and hands-on
exercises followed by management practice with assistance from other
advanced ports employing similar equipment.
The following major areas of training are involved:
(a) Traffic Management
(b)  Bulk Terminal Management and Operations
(c) Container Terminal Management and Operations
(d) Maintenance Management and Operations
This program will be designed for department heads and senior profes-
sional staff.
3.      Operations and Maintenance of Equipment TraininR
Training in the operation and maintenance of computer, equipment
and complex machines will consist of course work with practical exercise,
hands-on training in a class environment followed by field training under



-44-
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
actual operating conditions at cooperating ports. The major training
components are each divided into:
- Design of equipment
- Operations of equipment
- R.outine service requirements of equipment
- Fault detection and fault diagnosis of equipment
- Operating procedures
- Operating methods
- Controls and manual overrides
- Equipment check out and tests
- Information input and output
- Interface of other equipment and operations
- Work and operating rules
- Skill development and human factors training
The major training components are:
(a)  Computer operator training
(b) Bulk terminal equipment operator training
(c) Bulk terminal control operator training
(d) Container crane operator training
(e) Front/side loader operator training
(f) Transtainer operator training
(g) Maintenance machinery and test equipment operator
training
4.      Basic Technician Training Program
Training of basic operating skills and procedures for simple
technical and operating tasks would require little classroom work and
would involve mostly on site, hands-on training. This training will be
given at Nhava Sheva or nearby domestic ports employing the same or
similar equipment. It will be composed of training components for:
(a) Fork lift operations training
(b) Tractor trailer operations training
(c) Bulk conveyor operations training
(d) Bagging operations training
(e) Gate control operations training
(f) Basic tool machines operations training
(g) Fueling operations training
(h) Container inspection operations training



-45-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Program and Budget
1.      The final number of staff to go through the formal training will
be determined upon completion of the detailed training program referred to
in paragraph 9 of the Agreed Minutes.  In addition to the formal training
program, there will be informal training, and orientation activities for
NSPT's and other agencies' staff as part of the overall training needs of
the project.
2.      For budgeting purposes, the overall technical assistance and
training program has been divided into three groups:
Group A - Management and operations training for senior and
supervisory levels to be met through local and overseas training
facilities at advanced ports and ports-related institutions;
Group B  -  Basic technician training to be arranged locally; and
Group C  -  Preparatory and technical visits, expatriate and local
specialist services for engineering, commissioning, operation and consult-
ancy services under the project.
3.      The average unit costs of the various requirements described above
are estimated to be US$6,000 per person each for training of Group A,
US$3,000 per person for Group B and technical advisory services at
US$12,000 per man/month for expatriate and US$5,000 per man/month for
local specialists.
4.      The initial estimated number of staff in the training program for
categories A and B above are expected to be between 700-900 out of which
about 200 are expected to be trained overseas.
5.      The estimated total costs of technical assistance and training is
about US$5 million.



-46-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Port Efficiencl Indicators
Data to be Collected
1.      In order that Port Efficiency Indicators may be computed on a
regular basis, the following data should be collected beginning not more
than three months after the port becomes operational.
(a) For each ship serviced at the port;
(i)  date and time of arrival at the port;
(ii)  name, dead weight tonnage, length and draft on arrival;
(iii)  date and time of arrival at berth and identification of berth
assigned;
(iv)  date and time of departure from berth;
tv)  periods for which ship is idle at berth and reasons therefor;
(vi)  tonnage and bulk commodity/tonnage and number of containers
(20 ft., 40 ft., and TEU) discharged or loaded;
(vii) number of shifts and overtime worked;
(viii)  number of gangs and gang size employed in each shift;
(ix)  type, number, and shift of cargo handling equipment requested:
(x)  type, number, and shift of cargo handling equipment available.
(b) For each transit shed and storage area;
Ci)  tons of cargo/TEU of container cleared within free period;
(ii)  tons of cargo remaining uncleared for more than 2, 4, and 8
weeks;
(iii) TEUs of full containers remaining uncleared for more than 2, 4,
and 8 weeks;
(iv)  TEUs of empty containers remaining uncleared for more than 2, 4,
and 8 weeks.
2.   From the above data the following indicators should be derived eacb
quarter and compared with the targets shown in the last column below:
Target to be
Achieved
a) Throughput per       Total tonnage/TEU handled by   Bulk Cargo: 7000 tons
Ship per Shift       number of shift worked.           Containers: 300 TEU



-47-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
b) Labor Productivity  Total ton/TEU bandled divided  Bulk Cargo:  500 tons
tons/TEU per net    by total gang time (including  Containers:  25 TEU
Gang Hour            overtime) less stoppage not
attributed to the gang (e.g.,
weather, cargo/equipment not
available, etc.) Bulk cargo
containers.
c) Equipment Pro-       Total tons/TEt handled           Bulk Cargo:  500 ton
ductivity Tons/      divided by shift + overtime    Containers:  25 TEU
TEU per Hour         hours less stoppages not attri-
buted to the equipment or its
operators (e.g., weather cargo
not available, etc.)
d) Average Dwell        Ton/TEU-days in storage beyond Bulk Cargo: 7 days
Time                 free period divided by total   Import
tonsfTEUs stored.                Containers: 7 days
Export
Containers: 10 days
e) Equipment Avail-    Equipment hours supplied          85 per cent
ability             divided by equipment
hours requested.
f) Average ship         Total time between arrival
Waiting time         and berthing of all ships
divided by number of ships
berthed.
g) Average service      Total time (days) at berth       Container Vessel: 1 day
time (days)          (including berthing and un-    Bulk Vessel: 3 days
berthing time) of all ships
divided by number of ships,
h) Berth occupancy      Average service time (days)    Container Berths (3):
multiplied by number of            65%
ships, divided by number of    Bulk Berths (2): 60%
berths times the operating
days.



-48-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NHAASHEVA PORT PROJECT
Traffic Forecast
The traffic projections were made for fertilizers, containers,
foodgrains, sugar and oil cakes which are expected to be handled by the
Bombay Port complex.  The traffic analysis was then undertaken by examining
the flow of major commodities, identifying their origins and destinations
and by devising estimates of future demand for throughput of such com-
nodities. On the basis of this analysis, the traffic allocation was made to
Bombay and Nhava Sheva on the assumptions that: (i) all fertilizer and fer-
tilizer raw materials would be handled at Nhava Sheva; (ii) fully cellular
container vessels would use Nhava Sheva, while Bombay will continue to handle
cargo by combo ships and general cargo vessels carrying containers; (iii)
foodgrain imports expected intermittently would be accommodated at Nhava
Sheva; and (iv) all break-bulk cargo, oil cakes and sugar will be handled at
Bombay. The resulting traffic forecast for Nhava Sheva is summarized in
Table C.
(a) Fertilizers and Raw Materials Throughput
A comparison of the forecasts for fertilizer consumption and produc-
tion made in 1978 (based on 1976 data) with the actual achievements observed
in the six-year period 1976-81, indicated an overall five-year lag by
extrapolation, 1982/83 projections would only be expected to occur in
1987/88.  Keeping this reality in mind, available data and studies undertaken
by the Bank's Fertilizer Division and Consultants, RITES (India) have been
examined. The conclusion is that after 1987/88 Maharashtra and its neighbor-
ing areas will have a surplus of urea in suffi,cient volume to supply the
deficit areas in the hinterland of Nhava Sheva and, therefore, no urea
imports would be needed through the port. The current and projected fer-
tilizer production capacity was determined by identifying the location of
existing and future plants (with expected date of completion), rated capacity
of the plants, actual output, source of major inputs, and destination of
outputs in the hinterland of Nhava Sheva. The results of this review indi-
cated that only phosphoric fertilizer will continue to be imported through
Nhava Sheva after 1988, with such imports projected to grow from 380,000 tons
in 1988 to 620,000 in 1995.



-49-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
Based on a conservative assumption that as much as a two-year delay
would occur in the completion of planned (sanctioned) public fertilizer
plants, the requirements for phosphate rock input were determined. The
publicly-operated fertilizer plants comprise 70% of total manufacturing
capacity, operated at 49% utilization in recent years. After allowing for
the domestic production of phosphate rock in Rajastan, the import require-
ments have been derived,
(b) Container Traffic
Among the majo. commodities expected to be handled at Nhava Sheva,
container traffic is the most difficult to project. Containerization of
general cargo moving through Bombay has increased rapidly Over the last ten
years from practically none to 131,900 TEUs, or 34% of total general cargo
handled at Bombay, in 1981/82. Of the containerized cargo, 19% was destined
to or originated from locations oitside the greater Bombay area. About 30%
of the containerized cargo to and from the greater Bombay area was handled
in less-than-container loads (LCL). The volume of general cargo flow through
Bombay Port, on the other hand, has remained level at about 4 to 5 million
tons. per year.
A significant proportion of container traffic will continue to be
carried by general cargo, combi, or coastal/feeder vessels. Most, if not
all, of this traffic will continue to use Bombay Port because the ships will
require both general cargo and container handling services and because the
shipment sizes will be too small to Justify occupation of deep-draft main
line container berths at Nhava Sheva. However, feeder vessels which collect
or distribute main line containers would use Nhava Sheva.  These conclusions
were derived after analyzing available data from the Bombay Port Trust
reports and projected traffic demand on the liner routes by major shipping
companies.
(c) Foodgrain Throughput
The management of foodgrain stocks by the Government of India has
been effective in reducing large foodgrain import requirements in recent
years. An analysis of foodgrain production and consumption indicates that a
bulk handling capacity of about 450,000 to 600,000 tons per annum of
foodgrain is required at Nhava Sheva in every two or three years. This means
that Nhava Sheva would need a capability for the intermittent bulk handling
of foodgrains at a rate of about 20,000 tons per day.
(d) Forecasts of Sugar Throughput
A review of India's sugar exports over the period 1977-1980 indicates
that only in 1978 and 1979 did total sugar exports exceed 600,000 tons.
Furthermore, except for a steady annual tonnage of about 25,000 to the United



-50-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
Kingdom, all sugar exports were destined to developing countries like Egypt,
Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, China and Yemen, most
of which do not have deep-draft port facilities.
An analysis of projections of world sugar demand and supply similarly
indicates that the world sugar market will continue to suffer from a large
oversupply resulting in low prices at least until 1990. In the past, the
major importers of India's sugar had relied on sources other than India.
These findings led to the conclusion that there is a very small
probability that sugar exports (and imports) through Bombay-Nhava Sheva would
exceed 300,000 tons per year in the foreseeable future. Even at this level,
such sugar exports would be destined to countries without port facilities to
handle bulk sugar or deep-draft vessels. Even when destined to ports where
larger vessels could be accommodated, the export sugar would most likely be
shipped in smaller vessels, as part-load shipments or as general cargo due to
the small shipment quantities and comparatively short distances involved. In
fact, such smaller vessels would benefit little from a deep draft, mechanized
loading facility. On the basis of this analysis, therefore, justification
for mechanized handling of sugar at Nhava Sheva cannot be made.
(e) Oil Cake Throughput
Traditional exports of oil cake to OECD nations have declined
seriously, reportedly due to a contamination problem and the availability
of alternative sources of protein, such as fish meal, at lower cost. On the
other hand, domestic consumption of oil cake has increased greatly ln recent
years. Oil cake exports in 1980 and 1981 were primarily destined for the
USSR and Eastern European countries. Oil cake shipment sizes have been
small, and most oil cake exports (which fell from 458,000 tons in 1980 to
343,700 tons in 1981) have moved on small vessels, mainly through the ports
in Gujarat.
The available data suggest that efforts to reduce India's dependence
on edible oil imports through greater oilseed production and processing may,
in the future, increase the availability of oil cake export. Given the
uncertainties of such long-term developments, the present forecast assumes
that oil cake exports through Bombay will remain at their current negligible
level.



-51-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis Methodology
(A) Ship Waiting Times
The shi? service times for the mix of ships and tonnages were
calculated for the with and without cases, and the time values were com-
puted based on the weighted average cost per day in port for the mix of
ships postulated (Table D).  Ship waiting time costs have been computed by
dividing projected traffic volumes in any given year by the 1981/82 traf-
fic volume and then multiplying this ratio by the product of 1981/82
excess ship waiting times and average ship port costs. The excess ship
waiting times in 1981/82 do not take into account 25% of ship's port time
(not counting waiting time for a berth) since this much waiting period is
required for piloting, docking, etc., with or without the project.
(B) Faster Cargo Handling
The faster cargo handling benefits are computed by comparing the
difference in the cost of turnaround time at Bombay and Nhava Sheva based
on the estimated unloading rates at these ports. The ship sizes, the
handling rates and the number of TEUs per ship arrival are estimated as
follows:
Faster Turnaround Bulk Carrters
1988 Ship Size
Bombay                -          16,800 dwt
Nhava Sheva           -         22,000 dwt
Traffic 1988          -      1,950,000 tons
Unloading Rates
Bombay                            1,000 tons/day
Nhava Sheva                       8,000 tons/day



- -52-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Faster Turnaround Container Ships
1988 TEU/Ship Arrival
Bombay                              180
Nhava Sheva           -             300
Handling Rates
Bombay                                8 TEU/hour (average)
Nhava Sheva           -              20 TEU/hour (average)
Total TEU in 1988 - Nhava Sheva -          169,000
(C) Larger Vessels
The trend towards replacing smaller ships by larger ones has been
taken into account in arriving at the average size of ships that are
expected to call at Bombay and Nhava Sheva, as contained in Table D. By
multiplying the potential cost savings per tons of cargo (Table E) by the
estimated bulk and container traffic, the benefits of larger vessels have
been computed.
(D) Avoidable Cargo Delay and Loss
Table F contains the assumption regarding the extent of avoidable
cargo delays and losses for bulk and container traffic and their monetary
values. The interest rate of 12% is used, and the foreign exchange cost
has been shadow-priced at 1.25.



-53-
Annex 5
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PcRT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.  Interim Report on Nhava Sheva Project - HIPL, May 1981
2. Detailed Projecr Report on Nhava Sheva Project - HIPL, Pbvember 1981
Volume I    Main Report
Volume II   Environmental Impact
Volume III  Traffic Forecasts
Volume IV   Financial and Economic Evaluation
3. India Containerization Study - RPT Economic Studies Group, August 1979
4. .Bombay Port Trust - Master Plan - Bertlin and Partners, 1968
Volumes I, II, and III
5.  Report of Ntional Transport Policy Committee - Pande Committee
Report, 1980
6. Report of the Working Group on Containerization, 1978
7. Report on Congestion at Bombay Port - Mehta Committee, 1978
S. Review of DPR Proposals - Chung Kek Choo, 1982
9.  Review and Evaluation Traffic Projection of DPR - Revis, July 1982
10. Revised Traffic Forecast - Frankel, March 1983
11. Computer Printouts for ERRs, Sensitivity and Risk Analyses



-54-
Anneix 
rNDIA
OOIAVA SI8EVA PORT PR0JVCT
tOSfl pyotit & Loss 8"t&tm"       -           IeN  ng1 O4anh 31
FY84       FY05         FY86        FY87       FY88         FY89        FY00        FY91        FY92       FY93         FY94       FY95        FYF6
TRAFFIC C ILLtON TONS)
CONTAI.NER-'ED CAROl                                                                       0.8         1.4         1.7         1.9          2.2        7.          3.0         3.5         4.0
FERTZLSZERS I
PHOSPHATE                                                                                  0.5         1,2         1.3         1.4         1.5         0.6         1.7         1.8         1.9
SULFUR,                                                                                    0.2         0.5         0,5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7
FINISHEDc FERTrLIZER                                                                       0.2         0,6         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.P
FOUPGRAINS                                                                                 0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0,2         0.2         0.3         O,.:        0.2
SOISTOTAL-RULR CARGO                                                                       1.0         2,5         2.6         2.0         2,9         1.1         3.3         I's         3-7
RA7ESCRS/TONI
COMH 4m,IF                                                                               300.0       319,0       336.0       350.0       350.0       350.0       160.0       160,0       360.0
BULK                                                                                     102.0       162,0       162.0       162.0       162,0       162,0       18000       180.0       180.
RE ENUES
CONTAINESIZED CARGO                                                                      234d,       445,2       571.2       663.0       770,0       0733.0     1010.0      1260,0      1440.0
DULl. CARGO                                                                              162,0       3?7.2       421.8       446.5       971.1       495.7       390,14      629,3       668.7
CFS RENTAL                                                                    20.0        40,0        40.0        46.0        46.0        46.0        52.9        S2.9        52.9        60.8
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                                                       20.0       436,0       882.4      1039.0      1157.5      1287.1      1423.6      2.723.1     1?42,2      2169.1
EXPEN4SES
DIRECT COSTS
SALARIES ANM 800E.                                                            22.2        67.0        71.0        75.5        80.0        85.0.       92.2       109.3       01s5.       130.1
REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE                                                                   92.4        97.9       103.8       110.0       116 .6      131.9       156.7       166.1       191.5
POWlER AND FUEL                                                                1.0        12,16       28 .8       34,2        39.3        45 .8       52.9        63.5        75.3        88.1
cFs MfAINTEANCE                                                                0.6         1.2         1,2         1.3         1.4         I'S5         1.6         1.7         2,8         1.9
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                                                            23.6       173.2       190.9       214,B       230.7       248.9       278,5       331.2       250.7       410.6
SENRAL I ADHINISTRCATID0                   0.2         0.2         0.3         1.6         4.3         8.0        10,3        12,3        14.1        16,2         20,2       23.7        27.6
DEPRECIATION                                                                             073.3       172.3       073.1       1.73.3      173-.1      179,0       190.3       190,3       206.4
TOTAL OPERATINGS COSTS                     0.2         0.2         0,3        25.2       280.8       381.0       299.4       416,3       416.3       0 73.7      541.7       572.7       643.6
OPERATING SURPLUS                         -0.2        -.0.2       -0.3        .5.2        85.2       500.4       640.6       741.1        so0,s      949,9      1181.5      1369,5      0523.9
NET NON OPEATING RtEVENUES                                                     0.5        12.6        12.2        15.0        28,0        48.6        65.1         42.6       62.1        55.3
INTEREST                                  14.9        70.1       227.91      465.6       676,7       791.0       791.3       790.5       789.7        788.6      787.5        743.9      696.0
LESS INItERST CAPITALIOER                 14.9        78.1       227,9       463.6       1384
INTEREST CHARGEID TO S'ERATIDNS                                                          339.4       792.0       791.3       790.5       789.7       780.6       787,5       743.9       696,0
NET RERIEIUE                              -0.2        -0.2        -0,3        -4,7      -240,6      -278.4      -134.0       .21,4       109.7        226.4      436.6        687.7      803,2
WSORKINGH RATIO                                                                           40.7        23.5        21.7        21.0        20.4        20.7         20.4        19.7       20.2
OPERATIIO RtATIO                                                                          RO.5        43,2        38.3        36.0        33.1        33.3         30.4        29.5       29.8
RATE OF RETURN                                                                             2.3         7,4         9.6        I15 5       13,5         15.2        18,5        21.1       23.2
JanuarY 1984
BESTCOPY AVAILABDLE



DLr 1 ijuri FRWVIULRL
NEAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
NSPT Cash Flow Statement - Year EndinR March 31
(Rs MNlliou)
FY94      FYBS       FY9Y       FY97       FY99      FYB9       FY90       FY91      FY92       FY93       FY94      FY95       FI96
INTERNAL GENFRATION
CASH AVAILABtE FROM nPERATIONS             -0.a       -0.2      -0.3       -5.2      258.5      674.7      813.9     914.5    1024.1    1128.9    1371.7    1559.8    1730.3
NET NONOPERATING REVENUES                                                   0.5       12.6       12.2       15.9      28.0       48.6      65.1       42.6       62.1       55.3
tLESS)DEBT SERUICE                                                                              797.1     797.1      797.1     797.1      ?97.1    1208.0    1208.0    1208.0
(LESS) NET WORKING CAPITAL INCREASE                                         3.6       77.9       41.2       16.3      13.3       14.5      18.9       37.6       23.7      31.8
INTERNAL CASH GNERATION                    -0.2      -0.2       -0.3       -8.3      193,2    -151.4       16.4      132.1    261.1       478.G      168.7      390.2      545.8
PROJECTS TO BE FINANCBEl
PROPOSFr, F1DJFCT                         293.3     880.0    1760.0    2200.2        816.8
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION               14.9       7B.1     227.9      465.6      33B.4
OM  CAPITAL UOtKS                                                                                                                         I31.8      45G.5                 67.
231.8  458.5           ~~657.2
TOTAL CAtITAL REOUIRENETS                 308.2      758.1    1987.9    2665.8    1155.2                                                  231.8      458.5
BDAlA      TO BE FII&w                    309.4      958.3    199B.2    2674.1       962.0      151.4     -16.4    -132.1    -261.1    -146.2        289.8    -390.2       111.4
----- - -- ----- - --- ---------- -------- --------- ----- ---- ---- 
SOURCES OF FINANCING
ON-LENT BANK GROUP FUHDS                   20.6      331.3     974.1    1238-2       350.6
BOMBAY PORT TRUST LOAN                    146.7      340,1     574.0      788.6      502.0
GOVEONNENT OF INDIA LOAN                  140.9      286.7     439.8      639.0      302.5
GRANTS I EOUITY                             0.2        0.2        0.3      25.0
- - - -          -          - ------- ------ --- ---- - ---- ------ - -- -------- -  ------ -  - -- - - ---- -------- -- -- -
TOTAL CAPITAL FINANCINft                  308.4      958,3     1988.2    2690.8    1155.1
INDESTED CASH POSITION
NET CHANGE FOR YEAR                                                        16.7      193.1    -151.4       16.4      132.1      261.1      i46.2    -299.9      390.2    -111.4
_ _ _ -~~~~~~ ~  --- - -  -- -    -X- - - - - - - - - --                                           - - - - - -         
BEGINNING BALANCE                                                                     16.7      Z0?.8      58A4       74.8      206,?      468.0      614,.     324.4      714.6
ENDIN6 BALANCE                                                             16.7      20a.8       58.4      74.8      206.S      468.0      614.2      324.4      714.6     603.2
DEBT SERVICE COVERffiE                                                            61905.7         0.B        1.0       1.1        1.3        1.4        1.         13        1.4
January 19S4



-56-
INDIA                                                           Annex 8
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
NSPT Balance SPeat - AI at March 312
.am
19n4      J915      133       197        16        196       199        1991      192       199       1994       19n5      1996     <
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                                                         7075.2    7075.2    7075.2    7075.2    7075.2    7307.0    7765.5    776.5    3422.7   _
(LESS)ACCIJULATED DEPROCIATION                                              173.3      344.7     520.0     693.4      W6.7.   1045.7    1236.0    1426,2    1W2,6    _
7ET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION                                               6901.8    672D.5    6592.1    63 1.3     *4w    6261.2    6529.5    6339.2    67 0.1
WORKS UNDER CONSTRUCTION           293.3    1173.3    2933.3    1133.5
INTEREST CAPITALItE                 14.9      93.0      320.9     736.5
WORK IN PROORESS                   308.2    1266.3    3254.2    5920.0
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH INAiWS                                                         3.9       20.9      33.2      35,3 S      .S       41 5      46.4       55-2      59.B      63.6
INVENTORIES                                                                  30.3       32.6      34.6      26.7       3.91      43.9      52.2      55.4       43.0
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE6                                                1.7      36.3       73.5      66.6       *6.3     107.3      113.6     143.6     161.B     160.3
INVESTED CASH                                                      16.7     249.8      59.4       74,S     206.9      40.0      614.2     324.4     714.6      603.2
TOTAL CURRENT ASBETS                                               22.3     305,8      197.7     231.3     37.5    6U.6         323.2     575.4     991.6      916.4
TOTAL ASSETS                       309.2    1266.3    3254.2    5942.3    7207.6    696.2    6766.9    670-3    6664.1    70U4.4    7104.9    73W0.6    7706.5
LIASLITtES I EQUITY
CURT LlABSL7TtES
ACCOUNT PAYABLE                                                     2.0      14.4       16.6      17,9      19,2       20.7      23.2      27.6       29.9      34.3
SHORT TERN tEDITS
TOTAL CRRET LIABILITIES                                             2.0       14.4      16.6      17.9       19.2      20.7      23.2       27.6      29.9      34.3
LONG TU DEBT
PROPSE  ANW  OR30P FSIWICE          20.6      31.19    1326.0    2564.2    3067.9    3022.      2972.5    2916.4    2336.-i   2734.2    2706.5    2619.3    2523.2
_AY PORT TRUST LOAN                146.7      4".8    1060,1    1349.4    24sa.0    229.9    21)0.6    1944.4    173.1    1514.3    L266.5           993.9     64.0
GOOERWT OF INDIA LOA               140.9      427.6     367.4    1506.4    1391.6    2035.7    2299.4    2535.2    2795.1    3061,        29366    201.8    2766.3
TOTAL LONG TErB  DEBT              30a.2    1266.3    34.2        n20.0    7413.5    74ee.3    7402.6    7n6         73,       7W.1        .6       -5        5.5
EUSITY
PAID Ii COPITAL                      0.2       0.4       407       25.7      25.7      23.7       25.7      25.7       25.7'     25z7       25.7      25.7      25.7
RETAIlED EMNINSI                    -0.2      -0.4       -0.7      -5.4    -246.0    -524.4    -49.2    -0.6    -5.9    -a4.5               92.1     779.     13.0
TOTAL MUITY                                                        20.3    -2k.0.3    -4".7     -3.5    -654.9        45.2    -310,6       117.3     6-5.5    u".t
. a.^..........................  i*s.a.   as.s.as.aa.s. .s.in* .a.s.    i n mSS.  .S          tuS.a  _ 
TOTAL LIABILITIES I EQUITY         304.2     1266.3    3254.2    5942.,    7207o.     6926.2    4734.9    67643      64.1      764,4    7104.9    7W-6    77U.3
.J. a 19..a   .s. .a                                    .. ._ _                               ._  _ _.
January 1934



INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
NSPT Income Statement Indicators (Assumes Notionally Revalued Assets)
(Rs Million)
FY99       FY89       FY90        FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94        FY95       FY96
INDICATORS
NET REVENUE                     -240.6     -288.8      -156.2      -54.5        64,2      167.8       363.7      599.1      111.8
WORKING RATIO                     40.7        23.5       21.7       21.0        20.4       20.7        20.4       19.7        20.2
OPERATING RATIO                   80.S        44.4       40.4       38.8        37.4       37.4        35.7       34.1        34.6
RATE OF RETURN                     2.5         7.0        8.5        9.4        10.3       10.8        12.5       13.6        14.0
January 1984
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



-58-
Annex 10
Page I of 9
. ,DIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
NSPT - AsBUmptions to Financial Projections
1. Income Statements
1.1 Traffic forecast. The traffic figures used are as follows:
Table 1
Traffic Forecast
(in millions of tons)
Year        Bulk       Container
FY88       1.000         0.780
FY89       2.452         1.400
FY90       2.604         1.700
FY91       2.756         1.900
FY92       2.908         2.200
FY93       3.060         2.500
FY94       3.279         3.000
FY95       3.496         3.500
FY96       3.715         4.000
1.2   CFS Rental.  These fees were derived based on the CPS returning 12X
on assets after deductions for direct maintenance costs, associated
general and administrative expenses, depreciations, and interest.
The resultant figures were then rounded and are shown in Table 2.
Table 2
CFS Annual Rental
(in million rupees)
Year                CFS Annual Rental
FY87                      20.0
FY88                      40.0
FY89                      40.0
FY90                      46.0
FY91                      46.0
FY92                      46.0
FY93                      52.9
FY94                      52.9
FY95                      52.9
FY96                      60.8 BEST COPY AVAILABLE



-59-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 9
1.3   Inflation.  inflation has been assumed at 7% for the years FY84
through FY86 and at 6% thereafter.
1.4   Operating Costs.  All operating costs were derived in constant
terms. They were then multiplied by the escalation factors shown in
Table 3 which corresponds to the inflation levels assumed and defined
above.
Table 3
Escalation Factors
Year        Escalation Faoctora
FY84                 1.03
FY85                 1.11
FY86                 1.18
FY87                 1.27
FY88                 1.34
FY89                 1.42
FY90                 1.51
FY91                 1.60
FY92                 1.70
FY93                 1.80
FY94                 1.91
FY95                 2.02
FY96                 2.14
FY97                 2.27
1.4.1 Salaries and Waxes. The total salaries and wages payable to
the various categories of staff and labor have been computed
as per the norms indicated by the Ministry of Shipping &
Transport. The total salary payable to various grades of
staff and labor is given in Table 4.



-60-
Annex 10
Page 3 of 9
Table 4
Salaries and Wages by Grade
(in rupees)
Basic salary           Allowance           Salary per
Grade           per month                  x                annum
I             1,600+                    225                43,200
1I            1,200-1,600               240                40,300
III           500-1,200                 300                30,600
IV            0-500                     350                10,500
On the basis of the above norms, the salaries and wages have
been computed for each year of the project period, then
escalated according to Table 3.
Table 5 indicates the year by year requirement of labor,
the total costs in FY84 prices and the total escalated
labor costs.
Table 5
Salaries and Wages
Grade  : I              itI          III           IV          Total    Escalated
Salary/   Rs. 43,200   Rs. 40,300   Rs. 30,600   Rs. 10.500  Amount   Amount
annum         Amount        Amount       Amount        Amount   (Rs.       (Rs.
Year      _   No. Rs.Hlns. No. Rs.Mlns. No. Rs.Mlns. Nao. Rs.Mlns.  Mlna.)    Mlas.)
FY87            -     -                                                 20.0      22.0
FY88           41    1.8   171    6.9   1018   31.2   962   10.1        50.0      67.0
FY89           41    1.8   171    6.9   1018   31.2   962   10.1        50.0      71.0
FY90           41    1.8   171    6.9   1018   31.2   962   10.1        50.0      75.5
FY91           41    1.8   171    6.9   1018   31.2   962   10.1        50.0      80.0
FY92           41    1.8   171    6.9   1018   31.2   962   10.1        50.0      85.0
FY93           41    1.8   171    6.9   1048   32.1   994   10.4        51.2      92.2
FY94           41    1.8   174    7.0   1209   37.0  1Q86   11.4        57.2     109.3
FY95           41    1.8   174    7.0   1209   37.0  1086   11.4        57.2     115.5
FY96           41    1.8   186    7.5   1285   39.3  1166   12.2        60.8     130.1
1.4.2  Repairs and Maintenance.  The cost of maintenance and repairs
has been computed taking into consideration the cost to be
incurred for maintenance dredging which has been assumed to be
Rs. 11.2 million p.a. in FY84 prices and Rs. 15.0 million per
year in FY88 prices and the cost of maintenance and repairs of
various other facilities is given in Table 6.



-61-
Annex ,l0
Page 4 of 9
Table 6
Maintenance and Repairs
(in FY88 prices)
% of
Description                          Capital Cost
Land and Land Development                     0.1
Jetties & Berths                              0.25
Buildings & Others                            0.50
Floating Craft                                3.0
Plant & Equipment                             3.0
Mobile Equipment                              4.5
Dredging                                      Rs. 15.0 million per year
Thereafter, 6% per year escalation has been considered on
all items.
1.4.3 Power and Fuel. The likely consumption of electric power Was
computed and multiplied by the rate indicated by the
Maharashtra State Electricity Board for supply of bulk power,
taking into account fuel costs, adjustments charges and the
minimum demand charges to arrive at the cost of electric power.
Similarly, taking into account the consumption of POL, the
fuel charges were computed on the basis of the prevailing prices
in Maharashtra. The power and fuel costs, in FY84 prices for
container traffic wre computed to be Rs. 5.60 per ton and for
bulk traffic Rs. 5.10 per ton. These charges were thereafter
escalated to bring them to FY88 prices and the escalated
power and fuel costs applicable in FY88 are given below in
Table 7.
Table 7
Power and Fuel Costs
(in FY88 prices)
Costs/Ton
of Cargo
Description                           (in Rs.)
Containerized Cargo                        7.50
Bulk Cargo                                 6.83



-62-
Annex 10
Page 5 of 9
Thereafter, the price of electricity has been escalated by
6% per year.
For FY87, a lump sum provision of Re. 1.0 million was
assumed to cover power and fuel costs during commissioning.
1.5  Depreciation.  Annual depreciation has been computed at 2.45% of
gross fixed assets valued at historical cost.
1.6 General and Administrative Expensees. Nominal values have been asaumed
in FY84, FY85, FY86 and FY87. Thereafter, general and administrative
expenses were assumed at 1% of operating revenue.
1.7  Interest.  Interest is computed based on the BPT loan carrying a 10%
annual rate, on-lending of Bank Group funds carrying an 11.5% annual
rate, and the GOI balance loan carrying a 10.25% annual rate.
1.7.1  Interest char&eable is the interest incurred on all debts
after the conclusion of construction (at which point
interest can no longer be added to the value of gross fixed
assets).
1.7.2 Interest Payable. This represents interest which is actually
paid in cash. Between FY89 and FY93, only the interest on the
BPT loan and the on-lent Bank Group finaicing will be paid in
cash. During that period, the interest on the GOI balance
loan will accrue and be added to the principal outstanding.
Beginning in FY94, the interest due on all three loans will be
payable in cash.
2.  Balance Sheets
2.1  Cash in banks - represents two months of direct expenses.
2.2  Inventory represents four months of repairs and maintenance
expenses.
2.3  Accounts receivable represents one month's operating revenues.
2.4  Accounts payable represents one month's direct expenses.
2.5  Works under construction represents the accumulation of work completed
under the proposed project as at March 31 of 1984, 1985, 1986 and
1987. These amounts together with work completed during the year
ended  March 31, 1988 become capitalized as one component of gross



-63-
Annex 10
Page 6 of 9
fixed assets on Hlarch 31, 1988. All additional investments after
tlhe project period, namely investments of Rs. 231.8 million in
FY93, Rse 458.5 million ia FY94, and Rs. 657.2 million in FY96
are added directly to gross fixed assets in the year those investments
are made.
2.6 Interest capitalized consists of all interest accrued on the three
long-term loans during the period of construction. In FY84, FY85,
FY86 and FY87 this amount is added.to works under construction to
provide an aggregate work in process figure. The amount accruable
to the project in FY88 is added to FY87 work in progress ant! the
amount of work completed in FY88 to provide the opening giross fixed
assets entry.
2.7 Long-term debt - All three components of long-term debt include
accrued interest during the years FY84, FY85, PY86, FY87 and FY88.
Thereafter, interest on the GOI balance loan continues to accumu-
late until PY93.  In contrast, the decreases in both the on-lent
Bank Group finance and the EPT loan reflect the regular repayments
being made during those years.
3. Cash Flow
3.1  On lent Bank Group Funds.  On the cash flow, this includes both
principal and interest accrued to construction during the period
FY84-FY88.  On the balance sheet, this includes accumulated principal
plus unpaid interest for the same period. This loan appears in the
statements according to Table 8:



-64-
Annex 10
Page 7 of 9
Table 8
Details of Onletut Bank-Group Funds
(Rs million)(11.5% Interest per Annum)
Year
Ended             Opening               Interest                            Closing
3/31  Drawdown *Balarice  Payable  Chatgeable  Accruable  Amortization  Balance
FY84     19.5         0        0           0         1.1           0          20.6
FY85   .311.0      20.6        0           0        20.3           0         351.9
FY86    882.9    351.9         0           0        91.2           0        1326.0
FY87   1026.7   1326.0         0           0       211.5           0        2564.2
FY88    197.5   2564.2         0       153.1       306.2           0        3067.9
FY89        0   3067.9    352.8        352.8           0        45.1        3022.8
FY90        0   3022.8    347.6        347.6           0        50.3        2972.5
FY91.       0   2972.5    341.8        341.8           0        56.1        2916.4
FY92        0   2916.4    335.4        335.4           0        62.5        2853.9
FY93        0   2853.9    328.2        328,2           0        69.7        2784.2
FY94        0   2784.2    320.2        320.2           0        77.7        2706.3
FY95        0   2706.5    311.2        311.2           D        86.7        2619.8
FY96        0   2619.8    301.3        301.3           0       .96.6        2523.2
3.2  Bombay Port Trust Loan.   On the cash flow, this includes both the
principal and the interest accrued to construction during the period
FY84-FY88. On the Balance Sheet, this includes accumulated principal
plus unpaid interest for the same period. This loan appears in the
statements according to Table 9:



-65-
Annex 10
Page 8 of 9
Table 9
Details of Bombay Port Tryst Loan
(Rs million)(1O0 Interest per Annum)
Year
Ended             Opening               Interest                            Closing
3/31  Drawdown  Balance  Payable  Chargeable  Aecruable  Amortization  Balance
FY84   139.8          0        0            0        6.9            0        146.7
FY85   310.0      146.7        0            0       30.1            0        486.8
FY86   500.4      486.8        0            0       73.6            0       1060.8
FY87   650.2    1060.2         0            0      138.4            0       1849.4
FY88   399.6    1849.4         0         51.2      102.4            0       2351.4
FY89       0    2351.4    235.1         235.1          0       147.6        2203.8
FY90       0    2203.8    220.4         220.4          0       162.3        2041.5
FY91       0    2041.5    204.2         204.2          0       178.5        1863.0
FY92       0    1863.0    186.3         186.3          0       196.4        1666.6
FY93       0    1666.6    166.7         166,.7         0       216.0        1450.6
FY94       0    1450.6    145.1         145.1          0.      237.6        1213.0
FY95       0     213.0    121.3        121.3          0       261.4         951.6
FY96       0      951.6     95.2         95.2          0       287.5         664.1
3.3  GOI Balance Loan.  On the cash flow, this includes both the principal
and the interest accrued to construction during the period FY84-FY88.
On the Balance Sheet, this includes accumuLated principal plus unpaid
interest for the period FY84-FY93.  This loan appears in the statements
according to Table 10:



-66-
Annex 10
Page 9 of 9
Table 10
Details of GOI balance Loan
(Rs million)(10.25% Interest per Annum)
Year
Ended            Opening               Interest                            Closing
3/31  Drawdown  Balanice  Payable  Chargeable  Acctuable  Amortization  Balance
FY84   134.0         0         0            0       6.9           0         140.9
FY85   259.0     140.9         0            0      27.7           0         427.6
FY86   376.7     427.6         0            0      63.1            0        867.4
FY87   523.3     867.4         0            0     115.7           0        1506.4
FY88   219.7    1506.4         0        82.8      165.7           0        1891.8
FY89       0    1891.8         0       193.9      193.9            0       2085.7
-FY90       0    2085.7        0        213.8     213.8            0       2299.5
FY91       0    2299.5         0       235.7      ?35.7            0       2535.2
FY92       0    2535.2         0       259.9      259.9            0       2795.0
FY93       0    2795.0         0       286.5      286.5            0       3081.5
FY94       0    3081.5    315.9        315.9          0        95.0        2986.5
FY95       0    2986.5    306.1        306.1          0       104.8.       2881.7
FY96       0    2881.7    295.4        295.4          0       115.5        2766.2



-67-                         Annex 11
IND IA
MHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
NSPT Internal Financial Rate of Return
(Rs Million - Constant Prices)
Year Ended           Capital         Recurrent                            Net Cash
March 31             Costs            Costs           Revenues             Flow
FY84                252.3                0                 0             (252.3)
FY85                757.0                0                 0             (757.0)
FY86              1,514.0                0                 0           (1,514.0)
FY87              1,766.4             17.5              L6.0           (1,767.9)
FY88                757.0            142.4             327.1             (572.3)
FY89                     0           156.7             639.7              483.0
FY90                     0           159.0             723.5              564.5
FY91                     0           161.2             736.5              575.3
FY92                     0          .163.4             790.2              626.8
FY93                 128.8           170.1             842.3               543.4
FY94                240.1            187.8             932.5              504.6
FY95                     0           193.1          1,010.2               817.1
FY96                307.1            206.5          1,081.9               568.3
FY97                     0           210.1          1,152.8               942.7
FY98                456.4            223.2          1,223.8               544.2
FY99                 158.1           232.4          1,292.9               902.4
FY2000                   0           236.0          1,365.6             1,129.6
FY01                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY02                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY03                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY04                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY05                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY06                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY07                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY08                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY09                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY10                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FYI1                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY12                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
FY13                     0           240.2          1,436.5             1,196.3
IFRR     12.1%
January J984



-68-
Table A
INDIA
NUAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Traffic Handled at Major Ports of India
Total Tons              No. of Vessels
1981/82     1982-83        1982-82    1982-83
Bombay                  19,63.,435  18,028,694        3,557       2,281
Calcutta
(including Haldia)      9,750,000   7,517,000        1,146         901
Cochin                   5,501,403   4,190,771          918         696
Madras                  11,471,050   9,511,162        1,295       1,094
Kandla                   9,530,452   9,355,216          562         421
Mormugao                14,887,652   8,306,000          528         294
Visakhapatnam           10,854,000   7,599,00on         563         439
Paradeep                 2,167,974      990.605         121          79
Mangalore                1,642,537   1,473,987          254         181
Tuticorin                2,686,048   2,269,714          371         253
Total                   88,125,551  69,242,229        9,315       6,639
Source: MOST *.eport 1982-83
January 1984



-69-
Table B
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal Year                            Disbursement in US$'000
& Quarter Ending                  During Quarter          Cumulative
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                     600                   600
December 31, 1984                    1,400                 2,000
March 31, 1985                      10,000                12,000
'June 30, 1985                      18,000                 30,000
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                 20,000                 50,000
December 31, 1985                  20,000                 70,000
March 31, 1986                      25,000                95,000
June 30, 1986                      25,000                120,000
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                 25,000                145,000
December 31, 1986                  25,000                170,000
March 31, 1987                      20,000               190,000
June 30, 1987                      15,000                205,000
rUy 1988
September 30, 1987                 10,000                215,000
December 31, 1987                   8,000                223,000
March 31, 1988                       7,000               230,000
June 30, 1988                       5,000                235,000
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                  5,000                240,000
December 31, 1988                   5,000                245,000
March 31, 1989                       5,000               250,000
Proposed Closing Date: March 31, 1989
Source: Mission Estimate
January 1984



-7- ~Table C
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Traffic Prolections
(Million Tons)
Serial-
No.      Commodity                 1987-88    1992-93    1995-96    2001-01
I   Fertilizers, including
raw materials:
a) Finished fertilizers*   0.38-0.68  0.51-0.91  0.62-1.11  0.99-1.61
b) Rock phosphate               1.10        1.55        1.94       2.28
c) Sulphur                      0.47        0.60       0.71        0.98
Total                    1.95-2.25  2.66-3.06  3.27-3.76  4.76-5.47
TI   Containerized cargo             1.69        2.50        3.55       5.40
III   Foodgrains                      0.60        0.60       0.60        0.60
(Intermittent)
Note: *The composition of the finished fertilizers will be 0.2 million tons
of potassic fertilizers (constant) and the balance, phosphatic
fertilizers.
Source: Mission estimates
January 1984



-71-                           Table D
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Vessel Sizes Assumed and Associated Ship Costs
(At Nhava Sheva)
Bulk Carriers          Containership
Average      Port      Average       Port
Ship Sizes  Cost/Day  Ship Sizes   Cost/Day
Year        DWT          Ks         DWT          Rs
1987/88     22,000      87,000      20,000      129,000
1988/89     23,000      88,000      21,000      134,000
1989/90     24,000      89,000      22,000      140,000
1990/91     25,000      90,000      23,000      145,000
1991/92     26,000      91,000      24,000      150,000
1992/93     27,000      92,000      25,000      154,000
1993/94     28,0-'l     93,000      26,000      159,000
1994/95     29,000      94,000      27,000      163,000
1995/96     30,000      95,000      28,000      169,000
(At Bombay Without Nhava Sheva)
Ship      Cost/Day
Size         Rs
Average Bulk Carriers        16,800 DWT      60,000
Average Containership        15,000         102,000
Source: Mlission estimates
January 1984



-72-
Table E
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Cost Savings Per Ton Due to Larger Vessels
(In 1983 Rupees)
Year               Bulk Cargo        Container Cargo
1988 (1/2 year)       139                   67
1989                  300                  158
1990                  321                  185
1991                  347                  212
1992                  370                  244
1993                  399                  276
1994                  404                  302
1995                  422                  329
1996                  443                  350
1997                  443                  373
1998                  443                  395
1999                 443                   43.8
2000                  443                  441
Source: Mission estimates
January 1984



-73-
Table F
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Assumptions in Computing Cargo Delays
Cargo             Million Tons (1988)       Value/Ton
Fertilizers                     2.0              Rs 1,200
Foodgrains                      0.6                  3,000
(intermittent)
Containers                      1.7                  6,500
Time Value of Cargo
Fertilizers
8 days of saving
12% interest rate
1.25 shadow price for foreign exchange
(8)(1,200)(12)(1.25)                      -  Rs 3.95/ton
(365)(100)
Foodgrains
3 days of saving
12% interest rate
1.25 shadow price for foreign exchange
(3)(3,000)(12)(1.25)                     =  Rs 3.7/ton
(365)( 100)
Containers
3 days of saving
12% interest rate
1.25 shadow price for foreign exchange
(3)(6,500)(12)(1.25)                      =  Rs 8.0/ton
(365) (100)
Cargo Loss
Savings assumed at 0.4% of cargo value
Source: Mission estimates
January 1984



-74-
Table G
INDIA                                                      Peie 1 of 2
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimates (8 1983 Prices & Exchange gate US$   R Ra 9.75)
------     Rupees Hillton --------                    US$ Million ----------
Tax 6 Duty                               Tax & Duty
Description                 _uantity                          Local   Forelin   Total   Comoonent   Local_  Forsian   Iotal   Coaponent
A.  Land Acquisition                              1,185 ha        200.0               200.0      -          20.5       -        20.5
B.  Civil Works
(i)  Filling & levelling                   10.79 mill m3    557.4    300.5    857.9          73.0       57.2      30.8     88.0
ttl)  Bulk berth (incliding service
and port craft berth*)                   712 km        121.3    124.4    245.7         35.7       12.4     12.8      25.2
(iii)  Bulk berth approach                        365 km         16,6      15.2     31.8        4.0        1.7       1.6       3.1
(lv)  Container berth                            680 kmn       123.4    114.2    237.7        34.9       12.7      11.7     24.4
(v)  Container berth approaches                880 km         55,6      39.4      95.0       11.6        5.7      4.0       9.7
(vi)  Landing jetty                               44 kcs         7.6       -        7.6        0.4        0.8       -        0.8
(vii)  Admin. 6 operational buildings         11,600 n2          11.5      10.5     22.0        3.8        1.2       1.1      2.3
(viii)  Maintenance buildings                  11,500 m2          11,0       3.0      14.0        1.9       1.1       0.3       1.4
(ix)  Electrical buildings                    3,650 .2           2.9      0.3       3.2        0.4        0.3       -        0.3
(x)  Roads                                                    156.3      -       156.3        7.1       16.0      -        16.0
(xi)  Railway sidings                                          401.9       -      401.9        1.1       41.2       -       41.2
(xii)  Paved areas (including land piles)                        40.8       4.2     45.0        7.0        4.2       0.4      4.6
(xiii)  Fencing and gatea                                          1,9       _         1.9       0.1        0.2       -         0.2
Subtotal B                                                  1,508.2    611.8  2,120.0       181.0      154.7     62.6    217.3        18.6
C. Dredging
(t)  Soft clay                              7.65 mill m3      40.3    162.2    202.5         13.0        4.1      16.6     20.7
(it)  Underwater rock blasting               0.44 mill m3       18.7      74.6     93.3        5.9        1.9       7.7      9.6         _
Subtotal a                                                     59.0    236.8    295.8        18.9        6.0      24.3     30.3        1.9
D. Plant and Equipment
(i)  Container handling equipment
(a)  wharf gantry cranes                   3 nos.        47.9      98.0    145.9       41.8        4.9      10.1      15.0
(b)  tire mounted gantry cranes            8 nos.        40.6      81.3    121.9       34.7        4.2       8.3      12.5
(e)  rail mounted gantry crane             I no.          4.9       9.6      14,5       4.2        0.5       1.0       1.5
(d)  fork lift truck                       I no.          1.5       3.1       4.6        1.4       0.2       0.3       0.5
's)  tractors                             38 nos.         8.1      16.6     24.7        7.5        0.8       1.7       2.5
(f)  trailerB                            136 nos.        11.7      24.3      36.0      10.8        1.2       2.5       3.7
(g)  miscellaneous                                        4.4       ,B.4     12.8        3.5       0.4       0.9       1.3
Subtotal 0 (i)                                          119.1    241.3    360.4        103.9      12.2      24.8      37.0       10.7
(Li)  Bulk handling equipment
(a)  marine unloaders                      4 nos.        84.2    146.7    230.9        64.7        8.5      15.1      23.6
(b)  conveyor system                      15.5 nos.      75.1      98,1    173.2       45.3         7.7     10.1      17.8
(e)  scraper reclaimers                    3 nos.        11.2      20.0      31,2        8.8        1.1      2.1       3.2
(d)  bagging machines                     30 nos.        11.5      20.7      32.2       9.1        1.2       2.1       3.3
(e)  bag lo4der/unloaders                 22-nos.        10.7      19.2      29.9       8.5        1.1       2.0       3.1
(f)  bag stackers                          2 nos.         5.4       9.5      14.9       4.2        0.5       1.0       1.5
(g)  front end loaders                     8 nos.         4.0       8.0      12.0        3.5       0.4       0.8       1.2
(h)  doters                                5 noe.         1.5       3.0       4.5        1.4       0.2       0.3       0.5
(i)  miscellaneous                                       11.3       0.5      11.8        1.1       1.2       -         1.2
Subtotal D (ii)                                         214.9    325.7    540.6        146.6      21.9      33.5      55.4       15.0
(iii)  Workshop & miscellaneous equipment                        36.2      33.7     69.9       12.0        3.7       3.5      7.2        1.2
(iv)  Floating craft & navigational sids
(a)  tugs                                  3 nos.        35.0      70.0    105.0       33.6        3.6       7.2      10.8
(b)  pilot launcbes                        3 nos.         3.0       6.0       9.0       2.9        0.3       0.6       0.9
(e)  mooring launches                      2 nos.         2.6       5.4       8.0        2.6       0.3       0.5       0.8
(d)  survey launch                         1 no.          1.7       3.3       5.0        1.6       0.2       0.3       0.5
(e)  navigational aids                       -           17.6       3.1      20.7        2.4        1.8      0.3       2.1         _
Subtotal D (iv)                                          59.9      87.8    147.7        43.1       6.2       8.9      15.1        4.4
Subtotal D                                                    430.1    688.5  1,118.6       305.6       44.0      70.7    114.7       31.3
RF1T rnDV AIIAII ARI C



.75.                                                    Table 0
page 2 of 2
up,S Millio--i -----                    UP Mllion       --..  ---
Tom 4 Duty                             Tax 6 Duty
2)saeriDtton     __e______________-   0uantiSt            LWent   Foreign   aotal   Conmonnt   Local   Foirsin   Total   Conent
E. Container lraisht Station
(i)  Storage shed                            20,000 .2       16.3     10.2     26.5        5,4       1,7       1,1      2,8
(ii)  Paved areas                            80,000 *2       17.0       -       17.0        1,7       1,8                I'S
(Lit)  Office butldtng                          1,300 .2       2.1       0.2      2,3        0.2       0.2        -       0,2
(iv)  Yencing and gStes                                       2.1       -        2.1        0.2       0,2        -       0,2
Iv)  Bonded warehouso                         S,000 s2       4.0       2.0      6.0       12.        0.4       0.2      0.6
Subtotal E                                                  41.5      12.4     53.9        8.4       4.3      123       5.6       0.9
F. Bulk Storase FaeLlities
(i)  Bulk storage sheds                      98,900 a2      81.9      74.8    156.7       24.8       8,4       7,7     16.1
(ii) Drive houses, gallertes and
loading platforms                                     52.7     56.0    108.7       27,9        5.4               11 21,2
Subtotal F                                                 134.6    130.8    265.4        42.7      13,8      13,4     27,2       4.A
0. Electrical Power Distrlbution
(1)  Prime power supply                                     56.2       9.0     65,2        5.2       5.8       0,9      6.7
(it)  Transformers 6 switch gear                              57.7      2.6     60.3        4.1       5.9       0.3      6.2
(iit)  Power and control cables                               15.3      30.0     45.3       14.3       1.6       3.0      4.6
(iv)  Mliseellaneous                                          13.6      7.4     21.0        4.0       1.4      0.8       2.2
Subtotal G                                                  142.8     49.0    191.8       27.6      14.7       5.0     19.7        2.9
H. Utilities, Services and
Environmental Protection
(1)  Water supply                                            8.7       -        8.7        0.4       0.1      -         0.1
(ii)  Drainage                                               4-7.7              47.7        2.4       4.9                4.9
(iiI)  Pire fighting                                           16.7      -       16.7        1.7       1.7                1.7
(Sv) Conmunications 6 lightin8                               "7.4       6.6     64.0        S.9       5.9      0.7       6.6
(s)  Vehicles                                 57 nos.        6.8       -        6.8       0.4        0.7                0.7
(vi)  Hospital equipment                                      2.1       -        2.1        0.2       0.2                0.2
(vii)  Preliminary works                                      20.0       -       20.0        1.0       2.0                2.0
(viii)  Housing for security force              10,777 .2       17.2      -       17.2        0.9       1.8                1.8
(ix)  Site offices and accomodation                          13.8       .       13.8       0.7        1.4                1.4
(W)  Guest housn                                             6.7       -        6.7       0.3        0.7                0.7
(xi)  Snvironeental protection                               16.8       2.7     19.5        1.9       1.7      0.3       2.0 C
Subtotal H                                                 213.9       9.3    223.2       15.8      21.9       1.0     22.9        1.6
J2. Residential colon
(i)  tnfrastructure                           68 ha         63.1               63.1        3.2       6.5                6.5
(ii)  Buildings                              176,570 a2     176.3              176.3       17.6      18.2               18.1
Subtotal J                                                 239.4              239.4       20.8      24.6               24.6       2.1
K. Technical Assistance
(1)  Training program
(a)  expatriate advisers               144 a/n
2$12,000          6.6      9.8      16.6                 0.7       1.0      1.7
(b)  local advisers                    120 u/u
E 45,000          5.8                5.8                  0.6       -        0.6
(c)  fellowships                       200 nos.
2 6,000                    11.7     11.7                            1.2      1.2
(d)  local training                    500 nos
0 3,000           14.6       -      14.6                  I.5       _        1.5
(ti)  Studies
(a)  survey to refine traffic
forecests                   12 n/m ) 42 m/r
(b)  container operation manuel  12 2/  )  e
(c) organiestion, management,            ) S12,000
& finance (OHP) study       :8 /s )               2.9      2.9       4.9                 0.2       0.3      0.5
Subtotal K                                                  30.1      24.4     53.6                  3.0      2.5       5.5
L. Engineerilnn Services                                         77.0     25.4    102.4                  7.9       2.6     10.5
Base Estimate (raid 1983 prices)                         3,075.7  1,788.4  4,865.1       620.8     315.4    183.4    498.8       63.7
H. Contingencies
(1)  Physical                                              134.5    103.4    237.9        21.1      13.8      10.6     24.4
(ii)  Price                                                 510,9    296.6    807.5       102.7      52.4      30.4     82.8      _
Subtotal 't                                               645.4    400.0  1,045.4       123.8      66.2     40.0    106.2       12.7
Total Project Cost                                      3,721.1  2,188.4  5,909.5                 381.6      224.4    606.0
R.  Interest during construction                                                1,124.9                115.4        -      115.4
0. Front-end Fee on 18PD Loan                                      -       6.1       6.1        -         _        0.6      0.6
Total Financing Required                                4,846.0  2,194.5  7,040.5       744.6     497.0    225.0    772.0       76.4
Sources connultantn & mission estimates
January 1984
RFqT p.nPY AVAIIAR LE



M                      n f~~~~~~~~~~(. ___  _
4                                     hi
S                      i.  -4i-h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
j              S                             28"§__~~~~~
;                      5gal}          1,      aii           X-R           ililF~~~4
0  gSS-              
01   |  eX 
o~~71    fX  
'0:              W{ 



-.77-
chart 2
INDIA
NELVA SHIVA FORT PEoj3C
Iapluantetion Schedule
FiecalYear                      1 98a4        1 98a5           19 86            I 98 7           1 9a88           198a
Loon Approval 
Loan Effectiveness 
Freliain*ry Works
Invite bids 
Ecxecutionk
Civil, Works Contr-aet
Invite bide
Open blds 
Awtead contaotta
Execution                                                -       --    -                       -mmU
Bul Eadi ngEquipment
Invite bids
Open bid.s
Awiard contract 
Execut oio                                           -- m m                   - - -            m -          m
Conitainer Equipment
Open bifa,
Award contiract-'
Execution
Conttainer Freight Station
Invite bids 
Open, bids 
Award contract
Execution
Worksaop !Suigment 
Invite bide
Open bid.                                                            a'
Award contract 
Execution                                                                              - -m    um
Residential Colony
Invite bids
Open bid.
AlMrd contract
Execut ion                                                        -                     um    um         MM
Electrical Platribution
Invite bids
Open bid.s
Awiard contract
Invite bids
Open bids
Award conttact
Execution                                                                         m               
Flostinst Craft
Invite bids
Open bids
A,Vard contracta. . .
Execution                                                                    mm
Tecniical Assiastanee
Appoint Agency for
Training Program
Extecute Trainking Program-    um mum -                                                           um    m
OMiV Study                                                 U     *        U
lntermodal Study
Containeor Hanual
BESTCO&PY HAVAILABLE



-78-
Appendix A
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Organization, Hanagement and Finance
(Accounting Studies)
Terms of Reference for the Anpointment of Consultants
1.      Annointment of Consultants
1.01    The Board of Trustees of the Port of Nhava Sheva proposes
to appoint consultants to study and recommend a suitable
(i)   Management and Organization System, and a
ii) Finance and Accounting System.
2.      Background Information
2.01    The Board of Trustees of the Port of Nhava Sheva was
coustituted in May 1982 under Sections 3(1) of the Major Port
Trust Act 1963. The Port Trust at present is headed by a
part-time Chairman, Deputy Chairman and three Reads of
Department for Civil Engineering. Mechanical Engineering and
Finance Wing. By 1984, the Port is to be headed by a full
time Chairman and also will have functional wings geared to
the construction project. By 1987, the Port is to have full
fledged operational departments geared to meet the traffic
requirements of an operational port.
2.02    The Port has been conceived to decongest the existing Port of
Bombay and to accommodate large-size ships. The cost of the
Project is estimated at Re 506 crores, to be partially
financed with the aid from the World Bank. During the course
of preliminary scrutiny of the Project, the World Bank
mission in their Aide Memoire after their visit in October
1982 suggested that the Project Authorities should arrange to
undertake studies in regard to:
(1) management and organization of the port; and
(2) finance and accoutting
Annex "A'        The object to such studies, and the scope thereof, is
detailed in the following pages. rt is proposed to initiate
these studies by January 1, 1985 so that the recomendations



-79-
Appendix A
Page 2 of 4
would be available by January 1, 1986 and the study's
recomendations would then be implemented as soon as
practicable thereafter.
3.      Objectiveg
3.01    Manazement and Organization Study
An indepth study of the Organization and Management System of
the proposed Port, and to make suitable recommendation;
3.02    Finance and Accounting Study
Study of the present Finance and Accounting practices
followed by Major Ports in India and to make suitable
recommendation.
It is emphasized that the Nhava Sheva Port will introduce
technically sophisticated *ork systems into the Indian Port
Sector. It is proposed that Electronic Data Processing
Methods be introduced in the areas of Traffic, Finance and
Accounting, Cargo Handling, and Container Operations. Any
studies that are to be undertaken should take these factors
into account.
4.      Scope of Work
4.01    1.   Management and Organization Study
An indepth review of the existing institutional arrangements
and the powers, duties and responsibilities of the various
author--ties engaged in the planming, design, construction
and operation and maintenance of the Port; the consultant
shall make recommendations regarding (a) the suitability of
the institutional framework, (b) whether adjustments to that
framework can improve organizational efficiency; and
(c)  those improvements necessary to accommodate the expected
expansion of the Port's facilities and services.
4.01    2.   To study and recommend ozgenization structures, staffing
plans and qualifications for each functional department
including policies for refresher courses and career
developrment.
4.01    3.   To study and recommend a program for implementing the
recommended changes with timetables broadly divided in'
convenient pt-ases.



-80-
Appendix A
Page 3 of 4
...4.01    4.   To study and suggest suitable  nanagement information
system covering all the aspects of Port Kanagement, e.g.,
Ci) the Port's budget - its utilization with the Corporate
Management and Information System; (ii)  the Traffic and
Operations Division; (iii)  Marine Services Division;
(iv) Research and Planning Division; (v) Administration
Division; (vi) Engineering Division, and (vii) Use of
Computers.
4.01    5.   The MIS may be divided into suitable groups relating to:
(1) past results, performance, general background and
environmental data;
(2) current results and performances;
(3)  future responsibilities and expectation policies and
objectives, plans, projects aud performances.
4.02    Finance and Accountni Study
4.02    1.   To study existing accounting systems and practices in
the Indian ports and to suggest suitable systems based on the
following requirements
4.02    2.   Monthly/annual report of operational performance review
of budget performance variances.
4.02    3.   Total planning of cash flow, investment, revenue
collection, preparation of budgets, cost controls, control of
expenditure, profitability planning, internal audit of
accounts, preparation of monthly and annual financial reports
tax and duties payments, in general with specific reference
to:
4.02    4.  Preparation of job manuals
4.02    5.   To lay down flow of information and channel of
communication between the finance department and the
remainder of the Port Trust Management.
4.02    6.   Evaluation and recommendations regarding the
organization and personnel deployment of the Finance
Department.
4.02    7.   Double entry accounting, with an integrated general
ledger system, in which all finaacial/cost transaction are
recorded either in detail or in sumary with supporting
documentation where necessary.



i-                   ~~~~~~-81-
Appendix A
Page 4 of 4
4.02    8.   A complete balancing set of accounts sub-divided and
maintained in sufficient detail to set forth the financial
condition and to ref'.ect the financial operations of each
utility.
4.02    9.   Segregation of accounts between those relating to
current assets and liabilities and those relating co fixed
assets and liabilities.
4.02    10.  Budgetaryi control of revenue and expenditure with
statements reilecting budgetary information. Required
statements for presentation to Management and its periodicity
with specific refexrence to performance, billings and
collection.
4.02    11.  Revenues to be classified by detail and sources
expenditure classified by activity and object.
4.02    12.  Cost accounting for recording all elements of Costs
incurred. Separiite records are to be maintaiued of operating
and maiataining each item of plant owned or operated by Port
Trust.
4.02    13.  Inventory accounting of consumable and permanent items
kept in stores.
4.02    14.  Appropriate coding system based on the final shape uf
the recommended accounting structure with a view to putting
the system on computer.
4.02    15.  Forms and systems design resulting from the requirements
of the approved accounting structure.



Appendix B
-82-
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Brief Description of TWo Technical AsBistance StudieEi
(A) Container Operations Manual
(B) Intermodal Transport and Traffic Allocation Study
(A) Container Operations Manual
The main objectives of this manual include: (a) providing a detailed
analysis of container movements from ship to wharf, storage yard, railway
sidiLng, CFS, etc., and recommending specific procedures for ensuring' effec-
tive coordinationt between equipmenit operators and other personnel involved in
these movements; (b) identifying suitable systems for storage/stacking of
containers, which would facilitate quick sorting and retrieval; (c) develop-
ing a comprehensive system of documents and procedures for recording of
container movements, which would be adaptable for computer applications; td)
providing a handy compilation of guidelines, work rules and safety measures
to be used by all personnel concerned with container operations at Nhava
Sheva; and (a) compiling a manual for operating and. maintaining the major
Items of equipment to be purchased and/or instalLed under the project.
(B) Refinement of Traffic Forecast: Intermodal Transport and Traffic
Allocation Study
The justification for the development of a modern'container and bulk
cargo port at Nhava Sheva largely lies on the expectation of a substantial
volume of cargo originating from and destined for areas outside Bombay. For
this reason, parallel development of inland linkages (road, rail, coastal
shipping) and related facilities necessary for onward distribution of goods
is required. The proposed intermodal transport study will analyze this
requirement in the context of intermodal transport options and tradeoffs.
The study's objectives include: (i) refining long-term needs for the develop-
ment of infrastructure (rail, road, bridges), rolling stock (railway flat
cars, hopper wagons), road chassis/trailers and handling equipment required
to facilitate throughl movement of containers and bulk commodities from the
new port of Nhava Sheva to inland destinations; (ii) determining the loca-
tion, size, and timing of investment needed in inter-modal inland container
depots which will provide marshalling yards for containers and interface
between modes of transport; and (iii) recommending interagency institutional
and administrative reforms required for the introductxon of new systems
procedures and documentation aimed at facilitating the transfer of containers
from one mode to another in order to provide an efficient door-to-door serv-
ice. All the organizations involved in the movement of goods in ititerna-
tional trade (customs, banks, insurance companies, road haulers, forwarding
agents, shipping agents, shipowners, the Railways) will need to review their
current systems and procedures with a view toward streamlining the movement
of containers through simplified documentation requirements that conform to
universally accepted practices.



- \PO / }~~~~~~~~\ t 1C + H X C IFJW J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  C I A  "N  Io~
§~                                                                   --  I,t  R4                                                                MNIJ ~nr 511UIJ 
X             t-                                                                                                                          \ -  /  \UX  1    1M    1
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ASRI LANKA
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
Proposed Pr
Proposed Codie Freight
Sttoin (CFS|
Aropo..d FortD,p.tA
--Proposed Rood
-Proposed Roihvodd
0      Prtriu,g Town Wn cm.e
-     -    ~~~MOjoT Highways
., ,!?Vir,o,                                                                                                     B{ 257 ;¢ ............ gombay-Island Cisy Bo.ty  dory
-      R   X 9ombay Awrooliion Reso.
S.aeBoundoriy
Borivali~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~   Budra
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnooo BouJ;   \&mt' 
RfARAV _ -. I                         0       \         -hS                                       }  \1         °       5       1-       IS      20



-   Bomboy Metropolitan Regior~
-~-  -Store Bounrtiries
Jt /d  l   -&'> N                     ------- inernationol Boundaies
Vasos                                                -<                                                                '---XzrS  Rivcrs
- , t g  yBhiwondi             -          <                       -
'-K        -                    U Ih\ Kdyan °b Ky
sol  I/-'                    ':as\nagarji=_
KILOMEtERS
BOMBAY
NHAVA SHEANV   SHEVA PORT PROEC
r   -_ ¢^   >w\Proposed Contiimer  /  \o
Freightion CFS)                                                                                             N   t  f
.1                    -         ?i                                 \                       x
r B                                                                                            Metropolit  
~~F_~ C.                                                 \!  W1



I N D I A BANG\ADESH) -J            w _ _ _
\~~~P4Y l,,a~,7'  FVVO.d rwend bO1W,eflhOAfnonc ,..dpoo    I                            _l
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o AO8, MdAAST  I¶eAO .' =0 1dflo Fo.OdobI                K                        , f
L SRI LANKA
0 7      2P390  00
:METERSC
>W:S,  /4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
.                                         C < %/   fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d



IBRD 17644
DECEMBER 1983
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
Proposed  Port Facilities
Peojerct CoponenhI:
Port Area Fences
<s,>,\   >n Proposed Port Facilities
Pod~~~.nv ~~~ I,.                            ..'*...~~~~~~   -4------- ~~~~Railrocads
r ng A,e,i                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Service Roads
.~~~~.        050  Dimension Lines (millimaters)
'WhIdd B    ourndlry of Reclaimed Area//
Sto°/ fi 7 SX Sevo Vilicage  ~   -     -  State Boundaries        /          /
International Boundaries      /
\;~~~~~~~~~'   Tr. ,.,.Fk
t.)  ....... .... Laig     10
<   2unkering Sto.age F.61it y
\C~
A ,',,80<
W..0 A1
0,.,



INDIA .
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
General Layout
Road and Railway Links
Project Components
- -  -    Port Area Fences
'  -~  Port Area Facilities
Roads
-          2 Lane                                                                                              NARAI
, ,-- i--Railroads
@g       Existing Village
Existing Roacd                                                                               SAVARKHAR
State Boundories
International Boundaries                                                                             *
JASKHAR
So/i Pans
Soib Pan2s
Salt Pans
KOIWADA $.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Xp
N
/1 - 1
. SHEVA\VLA                   /                                       N0             2
1  N ~~~~~~~~~            /                          I         ~~~~~~~~KILOMETER5
---LI ~Port Areo Fnce                                                                                             /   \
0-.&n_   __C  ttA



Port Area Facilities
Roods
2 Lone                                                                         \  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SONARI    
2 Lane
4 Lone                                                                                                                        ,  To Wan
KARAL
--Railroads
gXv~    Existing Village                                 - 
-       S  Existing Roo-d                                                                                              SAVARKHARf
State Boundaries                                                                                                         2 S
Intemationol Boundaries/
^                                              'ASAS                           /
.                      {  \\                                                                            }  /                                N~~~~~KLIAD. 
j   90_                        v                                                0'<    ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    ~~I N D I A  a
SHEVA ViLLAGE  /                0                         1                         2BOmay SHrRA
LOCATION
@> /aning Jetty.                                               r5.    ,           
For detail see /5/ID 17644                  m-                                              _
17h .oap has b5ee, p,po,ad by The WIld sw*ns staff ewxdss to, Ihe co otne,cc of                                                                                                m
the readfesnd's   y aexar   the ltemI usa of The World 851* fi athe ktnt&Sbon0'
F.nance Copoabon. The d fo1aons uSed and te bmardae shown on gSff mp cb not
lW[y on Me pal of The W   Bard, an the Unalaionat Fieance  yr at sXWna*;t                                                7                -     SRl LANKA
Me sgal tatus of erry tealoy  a eny earsaW a nowtaco &,ch bor e   ds  t                                                                                       90OD 1)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 .9.0



