Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONKW
Repwt No. 12189
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2387-IN)
JULY 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12189
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomanc of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =      Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00       =      Rs 28.00
Rs 1,000,000  =      US$ 35,714
(as of January 1993)
ABBREVIATIONS
BPT           Bombay Port Trust
CFS           Container Freight Station
(GOI          Government of India
JNP           Jawaharlal Nehru Port
MOST          Ministry of Surface Transport
PCR           Project Completion Report
Ply           Project Implementation Unit
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-enseral
operations Evaluation
July 22, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
Nhava Shiva Port Project
(Loan 2387-IND)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on India - Nhava Shiva
Port Project (Loan 2387-IND)" prepared by the Technical Infrastructure Division
in collaboration with the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department
2, of the Asia Regional Office, with the Borrower providing Part It.
The project was implemented vith considerable delay; the port
authority's operational efficiency has been unsatisfactory: productivity of cargo
handling is low and the maintenance of equipment is below standard. Improvement
in operation and maintenance works are urgently needed to ensure that the
physical results are sustained. Extensive administrative changes, including
possible privatization of some activities, are necessary to accomplish any major
improvements in operations and maintenance. The estimated economic rate of return
is 11.51 compared with an estimate of 202 at appraisal. The financial rate of
return for 1992 is 1.7% compared with an estimate of 13.51 at appraisal.
Overall the project's outcome is rated satisfactory--but barely so--
its sustainability uncertain and its institution building impact negligible.
The PCR's quality is satisfactory. No audit is being planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard R8pp
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be uses. by rec C-ients onty in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be di iclosed ;thout World Barik authoization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NIAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2387-I)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PagNQ.
Preface            .........................................                      i
Evaluation            .......................................                     ii
PART I: PROJECT REVEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity   ..............................    1
2. Background   ..............................                     1
3. Project Objectives and Description ........    ...........    1
4. Project Orgaization   ...........................    2
5. Project Implementation .........................  .   3
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up ....... .......   3
Implementation Schedule ...............    ......   3
Procurement.                                                 3
Contract Disputes.                                           4
Coordination of the Project Components ...... . .....    4
Project Costs .........          ..............    4
Disbursements ........................                       4
Loan Allocation ........................  4
6. Major Results of the Project .......................    4
Project Objectives  ..................... ..    4
Physical Resuts ........................  5
Financial Performance - Present  ............ ......   6
Financial Performance - Future   ..................    6
7. ProjectSustainability ................. ..........    9
8. Bank Performance ..........             ............   10
9. Borrower Performance   .......................    10
10. Project Relationship .......................  10
11. Consultant Services .............           .........   10
12. Project Documentation and Data   ...................   11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients onlY in the performane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwe be disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



PRTI H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation
and its Development hnpact on the Project  ....................                                       12
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans Md/or Credits  .........                         ...............                  16
Project Timetable    ..................................                                              i6
Loan Disbursements  .................................                                               17
Project Implementation   ...............................                                             18
Project Costs and Fiancing
Project Costs   .................................                                            19
Project Financing  ...............................                                          20
Allocation of Loan Proceeds  ........................                                       20
Project Results
Direct Benefits   ................................                                          21
Economic Impact  ...............................                                            21
Financial Impact .........                                   .                              21
Studies   ............                   .........................                          22
Traffic    ............                  .........................                          23
Vessel Size    ..................................                                           23
Status of Covenant    .................................                                             24
Use of Bank Resources
Statf Input  ...................................                                            25
Mission Data    .................................                                           26
Procurement  ......................................                                                 27
ANN1EX
Annex 1 . ........................................   28
Table 1: Cargo Traffic    ...............................                                           32
Table 2: Economic Rate of Retum    ........................                                         33



i
PROJECT COMPLEnON REPORT
INDIA
NHAVA SIHEVA PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2387-IN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Nhava Sheva Port Project, (India) for Loan
2387-IN in the aniount of US$250 million, approved on March 13, 1984. The loan closed June 30,
1992, three years behind schedule. It was not fully disbursed due to several disputes about contract
claims which were still unsettled as of October 31, 1992, four months after the closing date.
2.    This PCR was prepared jointly by the Infrastructure Division of the Asia Technical Department
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and o), and the Borrower (Part II), in consultation with the Infra-
structure Operations Division of Country Department 11, South Asia Region.
3.    Preparation of this PCR was started just after the p.'oject closing date of June 30, 1992. It is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement, Guarantee Agreement, Project Agree-
ment; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



Ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NIAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2387-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objeciv. The Nhava Sheva Port Project (Loan 2387-IN) was intended to accommodate the
projected growth of maritime traffic in the Bombay area from through 1992/93 by: (a) providing
specialized facilities to handle both containerized and bulk cargo; and (b) providing modem high capacity
cargo handling systems at the new ports so benefits from handling larger vessels could be realized.
2.    I ementa       inon Exeren  . The main items of civil works in the Project were: (a) construction
at Nhava Sheva of a total of 1,180 m of offshore marginal wharves; (b) one service berth of 212 m
length; (c) land reclamation; (d) dredging of an access channel; and (e) a container freight station (CFS)
and township. The offshore marginal wharves were comprised of a 680 m wharf with four access bridges
for container handling, and a 500 m wharf with one access bridge for handling bulk materials. The
project also included procurement of advanced (automated) cargo handling equipment systems for both
containerized and bulk cargo.
3.    Progress on the civil works items was slow: all the civil works were behind schedule 1 to 2.5
years. This was mainly due to the slow preparation of documents and the lengthy evaluation process of
bids (para 5.03, Part 1). However, the quality of the completed civil works was satisfactory.
4.    Progress on the procurement of equipment was also slow. In addition, performance of equipment
was below expectation. This was due to the inappropriate provisions in the technical designs and specifi-
cations for highly sophisticated automated systems, the insufficient quality of the equipment supplied by
the contractors and inappropriate maintenance/management by JNPT (paras 5.04, 6.02 and 6.03, Part D).
5.    Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT)1 (originally named Nhava Sheva Port Trust) has since
decided the highly automated systems should be converted to partially manual ones, in order to have more
flexibility and reliability of operation (para 6.04, Part 1). Several contract disputes were experienced.
These were caused by such things as: (a) time extensions; (b) customs clearance delays; (c) claims not
paid by the employer; and (d) claims for liquidated damages due to unsatisfactory equipment performance
(para 5.05, Part I).
6.    JNPT hired consultants to undertake technical audits of contracts for equipment capability, reli-
ability and maintence requirements in accordance with tender designs. They were also to propose
measures for improving operational efficiency for the bulk and container handling equipment. Further,
I Henceforth, to avoid confusion, only the more recent title of the Port Trust, JNPT, and the Port,
JNP, will be used in this report.



1ii
they identified possible inadequacies in technical designs and specifications as well as in the quality of
parts and equipment supplied, and proposed means for improvements (para 5.06, Part 1).
7.    Result. With the exception of operational performance of the sophisticated automated cargo
handling systems, the major objective of the project was achieved, viz. to provide modern, specialized
additional port capacity in the Bombay area. Benefits from the project, in the form of savings, have been
achieved: in (a) ship waiting time; (b) berthing time; (c) cargo handling cst; and (d) reduced loss of
cargo. However, the actual productivity of the installations has been well below expectations and needs
to be improved. The ERR on the project, as completed, is estimated at 11.5% (para 7.02, Part 1)
compared to 20% estimated at appraisal. This was due mainly to bulk traffic not materializing as
expected and operational efficiency well below target.
8.    The financial performance of JNPT is unsatisfactory due to financial repercussion from large cost
overruns, inflation in terms of foreign exchange rates and lower productivity in operations. In order to
secure JNPT's financial soundness, GOI action to restructure the capital base of JNPT plus efforts by
JNPI to improve operational efficiency, would be required (paras 6.16 - 6.22).
9.    Sutna ilnab  Short-term prospects are a major concern, because of lower than expected bulk
traffic growth, slow containerization of general cargo, existence of competing container handling capacity
in other Indian ports, and the heavy financial burden imposed on JNPT by cost overruns and inadequate
financW structure. In the long-term, prospects for traffic growth are more encouraging. The capacity
can be augmented with some limited investments and the project can be considered a sustainable invest-
ment, provided measures are taken to correct current low productivity and maintenance problems.
Regarding port operational efficiency, JNPT should give more attention to staff training and contracting
out some port activities to the private sector, thereby improving productivity and maintenance, while
generating additional investment funds (para 7.03, Part 1).
10.   Findings and Lessons Learned. The following lessons can be learned from this project and may
be of benefit in the future:
(a)   the project technology should be appropriate to country conditions and overly sophisti-
cated components may need to be avoided (paras 5.04 and 6.04, Part 1);
(b)   the project executing entity should be staffed with experienced and capable persons to
handle potential problems during the preparation and implementation periods and after-
wards to ensure efficient operations (para 9.01, Part l); and
(c)    all the major project related components, in particular highway links, should be included
in the project even though they may be financed by sources other than the Bank (para
3.02, Part 1).



PROJECT COMPLhTION REPORT
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2387-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PER!tPECTIVE
1.     Wig Id
Name:           Nhava Sheva Port Project
Loan Number:   2387-IN
RVP Unit:       South Asia Region
Country:        India
Sector:         Transport
2.    Back_round
2.1    The original wharves at Bombay Port were built between 1894 and 1914, and designed for
handling break-bulk cargo, they the principal form of cargo. The port was able to cope successfully with
traffic growth for four decades. During the 1950s, however, Bombay's capacity became strained with
the growth of bulk cargo; mainly crude oil, grain and fertilizer. To ease the problem, a new marine oil
terminal was built in 1956 and in 1962 seven berths, partially financed by IDA, were added. The
Government of India (0O0) believed these facilities represented the maximum increase possible at that
site, and any future need for increased capacity would require new facilities at a different site. This view
was held due to Bombay's draft and beam restrictions, inadequate staging areas and road and rail access
to the docks. Accordingly, in 1964, the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) commissioned a master plan to
develop alternative port facilities in the Bombay area. The consultant (Bertlin & Partners, UK) recom-
mended Nhava Sheva as the best site for the development of a satellite port.
2.2   The fast growth of bulk and container cargo traffic in the 1970s resulted in heavy congestion.
Ship waiting time averaged 40 days, due not only to shortage of infrastructure, but also to poor port
operations and management practices such as: (a) low labor productivity; (b) mandatory stuffing and
stripping of containers within the port area; (c) unsystematic handling procedures and slow clearance of
goods; plus (d) high down-tine for cargo handling equipment. GOI modernized and improved
operational practices to increase productivity and agreed in principle to the development of a new port.
In May .1982, G01 formed the Nhava Sheva Port Trust, later renamed the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust
(JNPT). (JNPT and JNP will be used in the rest of this report to refer to the agency and the port
respectively.) JNPIT was created as an independent agency with its powers and responsibilities defined
by the Major Ports Trust Act of 1963, and operating under the jurisdiction of the, Ministry of Surface
Transport (MOST).
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   Project Objectives. The project's objective was to accommodate the expected growth of maritime
traffic in the Bombay area up to 1992/93 by: (a) providing specialized facilities to handle both



2
containerized and bulk cargo; and (b) changing from labor-intensive methods of cargo handling to modern
high capacity systems, so benefits from handling larger vessels could be realized. The achievement of
these objectives required the comprehensive training of otherwise inexperienced staff at all levels and
extensive technical assistance in organization and management.
3.2   Prjec Descripi    The Nhava Sheva Port Project (Loan 2387-IN) provided for:
(a) a total of 1,180 m of offshore marginal wharving comprised of a 680 m wharf for handling
containers (sufficient to berth one large and two medium-sized vessels simultaneously) with
four access bridges, and a 500 m wharf for handling bulk materials (sufficient to berth two
bulk carriers) with one access bridge, plus one service berth of 212 m, with its shoreward
face designed for berthing port craft;
(b) land reclamation, paved areas for container and railway yards, storage buildings for bulk and
bagged cargo, offices, other buildings, road and railway sidings;
(c) dredging of access channels;
(d) container handling: 3 wharf and 9 yard gantry cranes, 38 tractors, 136 trailers and 1 heavy-
duty forklift;
(e) an integrated and complete conveyor belt system for bulk and bagged cargo, plus 2
continuous and 2 grab unloaders (650 m3/hour capacity each);
(f) an electrical distribution system, utilities, services and environmental protection;
(g) marine services: 3 tugs, 1 survey, 2 mooring and 3 pilot launches, plus navigational aids;
(h) a container freight station (CFS) and staff residential township; and
(i) technical assistance for staff training, port organization and management, in addition to
engineering services for the supervision of contracts.
It should be mentioned that the railway and highway links to the port were  scheduled to be completed
by the start of port operations, but their implementation was outside the scope of this project and the
delays in the completion of the highway link has affected port traffic negatively.
4.    Project Organization
4.1   JNPT was newly established in 1982 to prepare, implement and supervise the project, and operate
the new port. It is important to note that the project had to be implemented by a totally new organiza.tion
with newly recruited management and staff who were not necessarily experienced with such a project.
In this sense, this is a rare port project among those financed by the Bank. To oversee the early stages
of project implementation, JNPT established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staffed with top level
managers. To minimize administrative delays in executing the project, GOI appointed a special
committee including ministerial secretaries representing finance, shipping, railways, commerce and
planning.



3
4.2   The consultants responsible for the project's feasibility study and final engineering were retained
to prepare bid documents, assist in bid evaluation, supervise contractors and generally assist JNPT.
4.3   To control JNPT's payroll costs and avoid much of the labor unrest and consequent operating
inefficiencies which have plagued India's other major ports, MOST decided that JNPT should operate
only those facilities and equipment within the port's immediate confines, and contractors and conces-
sionaires should be retained to operate many of the port's ancillary facilities.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1   Loan Effectiveness and Project Stat-un. Loan 2387-IN was approved on March 13, 1984,
signed on May 25, 1984, and became effective on August 23, 1984.
5.2   Implementation Schedule. The project was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30,
1989, but it was not until December 1991 that most of the project components were actually substantially
complete. The port, however, was officially opened in May 1989 and became partially operational even
before the physical completion of all of its facilities. It should be noted that the delays experienced in
this project's completion were minimal, compared to other Bank projects in India. The main reasons for
the delays were:
(a) slow procurement process, in particular, the lengthy evaluation of bids (discussed in paras
5.03 and 5.04 below);
(b) inadequate performance of cargo handling equiprment due to the incorporation in their design
of overly sophisticated and advanced automation now being modified to provide a greater
degree of manual handling (described in paras 6.02 to 6.04 below); and
(c) many contract disagreements delayed disbursements, with some contracts still under
arbitration/review.
5.3   Procurement. The procurement process as a whole was slow, particularly the evaluation process.
The evaluation period (from bid opening to award) for the 8 Bank financed contracts, where the contract
amount exceeded US$5 million, varied between 6 and 13 months averaging 8.1 months as shown in Part
m, para 9. The longest evaluation period (13 months), for Contract 1 for the main civil works, was due
to procurement under the two envelope system: the first envelope was for technical and the second for
financial aspects. However, the Bank insisted that for future contracts GOI change to the one envelope
system and GOI followed the Bank's recommendation beginning with the second contract. The evaluation
period was then shortened to an average of 7.4 months.
5.4   The performance of cargo handling equipment (for containers and bulk cargo) has been unsatis-
factory. This possibly is due to the inappropriate provision in the bid documents (technical specifications)
for highly advanced and sophisticated automation, the deficiency in the quality of equipment supplied by
the contractors and the lack of proper maintenance/management by JNPT. Some aspects of the equipment
system are a world-first application (i.e. the bagged fertilizer wagon side-loading system) requiring care-
ful preparation of technical specifications to ensure optimum performance of the automated handling
system. JNPT decided to start operating the system even before final completion of the installation. This
made it difficult to identify the party responsible for the mechanical problems which arose.



4
5.5   Contract Q iIDhis . Many contract disputes have been experienced due to several reasons in
addition to the low operational performance mentioned above: (a) extensions of time granted by the
engineer were disputed by the employer; (b) Customs clearance was not obtained promptly by the
employer; (c) claims signed by the engineer were not paid by the employer because of inadequate
performance of the equipment; and (d) there were liquidated damage claims caused by unsatisfactory
equipment performance plus interest claims for delayed payments. Within the bulk system, although each
of the components of the system passed acceptance tests in accordance with the provision of the contract,
the function level of the total system did not pass these tests. As of this date these disputes have not been
settled.
5.6   To assess the capability, reliability and maintenance requirements of the equipment in accordance
with tender specifications, and to propose corrective action to improve operational efficiency, JNPT
requested Bank agreement for acquiring consulting services.  Independent consulting companies
performed tectnical audits of two contracts for procurement of bulk handling and container handling
equipment. Their audit reports have been submitted and final decisions by JNPT on dispute resolutions
are still pending.
5.7   Coordination of the Project Components. Coordination during the implementation of each
component of the project, except for the construction of the highway to the port, was generally satis-
factory. The unit train marshalling yard (railway transportation for containers) and CFS were completed
in time for operation of the container terminal, and other components such as dredging, power distri-
bution system, building and township construction have been completed satisfactorily. The National
Highway (NH4), which would improve the port's links to the hinterland, is expected to be completed
by 1994.
5.8   Proect Costs. The estimated cost of the Nhava Sheva Port Project at appraisal was Rs 7,040.5
million (equivalent to about US$722 million). The provisional final cost excluding the potential increment
in the disputed contracts, is about Rs 8,886 million (equivalent to about to US$641 million), as shown
in Chart 5(A) Part III. The increase in the total Rupee cost of about 26% is due to internal inflation and
the decrease in US dollar cost is due to the change in the exchange rate. The project scope itself did not
dhnge.
5.9   Disbursemetn. The estimated disbursements from the Loan are given in para 3, Part m.
Disbursements were delayed due to protracted initial implementation of the project. The original closing
date was June 30, 1989, but due to three extensions the actual closing date was June 30, 1992. The loan
account has not been closed due to the pending refund of the outstanding special account balance (about
US$1.73 million). The cumulative disbursements against commitments up to December 31, 1992, are
US$230.738 million and the outstanding balance is US$19.262 million.
5.10  Loan Allocation. The original and revised allocations from Loan 2387-IN and its actual disburse-
ments are shown Chart SC, Part m. Two reallocations were made on February 4, 1991 and December
10, 1991 to increase the amount in Categories l(a) and 2.
6.    Major Results of the Pioject
6.1   Prject Objecives. Overall, the project achieved its main objective of providing modern,
specialized additional port capacity in the Bombay area, to handle maritime container traffic as well as
bulk foodgrain and fertilizer traffic up to the year 1992/93 with reduced port labor. The traffic and



5
vessel sizes at JNP and Bombay are shown in Chart 6, D and E, Part m. This shows that traffic growth
was slower than expected and that although the move to larger bulk vessels did in fact occur, the same
did not happen for container vessels as JNP so far is served by feeder vessels rather than mainline vessels
and this is not expected to change unless the performance of the port improves significantly. As a corol-
lary JNP also achieved the equally important objective of reducing congestion in Bombay port. The
project also has been successful in introducing the new port high-apacity cargo handling systems for
foodgrains and fertilizers, a much needed advance over the labor-intensive methods employed for such
cargo in nearly all other Indian ports. Hopefully this will be the harbinger of similar projects in other
Indian ports which suffer from high (that is, higher than need be) direct labor costs and, more
importantly, high indirect costs of ship waiting time associated with much slower manual handling of
cargo that could be handled more speedily in bulk.
6.2 PThysical Results. The physical targets of the project, in terms of provision of facilities,
essentially were achieved as planned. However, some facilities and equipment items procured under Bank
financing have given operational problems. The Bank reviewed the required size of facilities at appraisal.
The size of the container yard and CFS, and amount of equipment were reduced based on the normal
operational standard in many developing nations. It was expected that additional equipment would be
provided only when justified by actual traffic growth.
6.3    The technical audits (referred to in para 5.6) disclosed issues and also recommended corrective
measures. It is, however, difficult to identify, at this time, the responsible parties for the shortcomings
and problems found in the system. Improvements in operation and maintenance works are urgently
needed to ensure that the physical results are sustained.
6.4    Meanwhile numerous corrective actions for the automated systems are being considered, and
JNPT has decided to convert the systems to partially manual operated ones. Both systems, however,
were designed to achieve a very high degree of automation requiring rigid adherence to prescribed
operational methods. The container handling equipment, however, after partial conversion to manual
operation is performing well. On the other hand, the bulk handling system, in particular, cannot be easily
converted to partial manual operation even though many of its automated functions such as bagging and
stacking are unsatisfactory. Better coordination is further required to ensure the timely availability of
containers and chassis; otherwise poor productivity rates will persist. There is also need to reduce the
loss in working time due to breaks and other factors.
6.5   In December 1991, a Bank supervision mission recommended that GOI consider the use of private
sector involvement to overcome JNPT's low productivity and equipment maintenance inadequacies.
Several shipping lines and private industrial groups had expressed a keen interest in being involved in the
operation and management of selected port activities, alone or in joint venture. This recommendation is
in line with MOST's announcement in the spring of 1991 that private sector involvement in ports was
desirable and would be given consideration.
6.6   Subsequent to the formal commissioning of the project, and in light of projected traffic develop-
ment, the Bank agreed with JNPT to the procurement of one container additional crane. This was to
augment the three originally provided (in addition to one crane to be financed by port users). Although
the new crane was to be covered by loan funds, there was lack of action by GOI on JNPT's request and
the equipment was never procured.



6
6.7   Financial Peformance - Present. Estimates of JNPT's finances contained in the AppraW  Report
assumed start of port operations FY88 and total cargo throughput of 5.1 million tons by FY92. In
reality, the port did not begin even partial operation until May 1989 due to project completion delays,
and had reached a total throughput of only 2.65 million tons by FY92 due to delays in project completion
and initial low productivity. Furthermore, because of cost overruns and the effects of inflation, the
project's cost exceeded estimates by some Rs 2 billion.  These ftors also incr  ed JNPT's
indebtedness, annual loan servicing and depreciation charges.
6.8   The effects of these various constraints are apparent in the table of financial highlights on pages
1 and 2 of Annex 1, summarized below:
(Rs million)
FY92               FY92
Year ended March 31                   Appraisal           Actual
Cargo throughput(mil. tons)            5.1                 2.65
Operating Revenue                      1287               731
Operating Expenses                     422                508
General Admistration                   1472
Operating Surplus                      851                 151
Operating Ratio %                      33.9%              79.3%
Hist. Valued Fixed Assets              7075                9150
% ROR on Fixed Assets                  13.5%               1.7%
Annual Depreciation                    173                282
Long-term Debt                         7388                9789
6.9   The operating ratio of 79.3% compares very unfavorably with the appraisal estimate largely
because of the much lower cargo throughput and lower cargo handling productivity rates achieved.
JNPT's security, marine and general service indirect overhead costs, together with operational and
administrative staff training charges resulted in a higher level of general administration costs than the
Appraisal Report's rather optimistic figure of Rs 14 million. Furthermore, since this type of expenditure
is prone to grow, JNPT needs to vigilantly avoid the development of an expensive bureaucracy. A major
concern for JNPT is its long-term debt. The Appraisal Report considered GOI's intention that JNPT's
financing plan depend solely on debt, rather than a mix of debt and equity, determining the high costs
of the project have now made such a formula untenable.
6.10  Financial Performance - Future. Apart from JNPT's own modest retained earnings, the port has
no equity capital. Its development has been financed entirely from loans, i.e., Rs 5.3 billion from GOI
and Rs 4.4 billion from two other major ports. To assist JNPr meet loan service obligations in the early
years, 001 granted a ten-year moratorium on its part of the loan capital.



7
6.11   JNPT's draft capital expenditure program, if approved by GOI and implemented between FY93
and FY99 would cost Rs 6.5 billion at 1992 prices or Rs 9.2 billion allowing for inflation at 8% p.a.
JNPT has requested that GOI convert 50% of existing loans into equity capital to improve JNPT's fture
cash flow.
6.,2 However, projections indicate that savings accruing to JNPT from such a restructuring of debt/
equity would fall well short of the program's cost. JNPT would need to seek loans to offset much of the
shortfall. Only if the program costs are cut back to Rs 3.7 billion could further borrowing be avoided.
6.13  If, however, GOI gradually increases its equity holding by meeting the cost of planned capital
expenditure, classifying such funds as an equity injection until a 50:50 debt:equity ratio has been reached,
JNPT can complete the entire capital expenditure program without further loans. The following estimates
of JNPT's future financial performance assumes this solution will be adopted by GOI and JNPI.
6.14 JNPT's draft capital expenditure program assumes another container gantry crane will be installed
by 1993/94; during 1994/97 some short-life equipment will be replaced; and during 1997/99 work is
expected to proceed on additional container wharves for which no detailed plans are yet available. Fore-
cast balance sheets show that if this capital program is pursued and its cost is fully met by 00G untl
JNPT's debt:equity ratio reaches 50:50, this ratio level will likely occur during FY98.
6.15   Pages 3 and 4 of Annex 1, show traffic, revenue and expenditure forecasts for the period FY93
to FY99. These flgures are based largely on JNPT's presentation to MOST on March 12, 1992, in a sub-
mission seeking the Ministry's reaction to financial restructuring proposals. Although JNPT's traffic fore-
casts are somewhat optimistic in light of the port's recent performance, they are attainable if cargo
handling productivity improves. Tberefore, JNPT's figures have only been amended to take into account
investment income and increases in estate rental income which JNPT's presentation did not include.
Highlights of the revised forecasts are summarized below:



8
(Rs million)
ACTL  BUDJ  EST   EST   EST
PY92  EPY9    EX24  EX26  FY98
Container Cargo (mil.tons)    1.21    1.44   2.40   3.60   4.38
Bulk Cargo   (mil.tons)     1.44   2.20   2.50   2.82   3.03
Operating Revenue           731    983    1339  1797  2134
Operating Expenditure#      580    575    658   804   907
Net Surplus                 151    408    681   993   1227
Operating Ratio (%)          79     58      49    45    43
Investment Interest         118    130    150    150   150
Long-term Debt Interest      74    280   564   1031  983
Net Revenue                 195    258   267    112   394
Net Cash Generated*         477    486   501    395   760
Long-term Loan Repayments    -      160   262    503   621
# Including depreciation    * Net Revenue plus Depreciation
6.16  Apart from capital expenditure, the forecasts do not take into account the effects of inflation. It
has been assumed GOI will allow JNPT to amend tariffs promptly to keep abreast of inflation, in accord-
ance with the project's Credit Agreement. Prompt action has not occurred in the past but, as GOI's
recently expressed intentions are to make quasi-government entities more profit-oriented, this facet of
sound financial management should be given higher priority in the future.
6.17  The projections show a favorable and attainable operating ratio and an ability to meet loan interest
commitments until the year 2000, at which time loans bearing a ten-year grace period need servicing.
Until then, it should be possible for JNPT to meet loan repayment obligations from internal cash
generation. Forecast balance sheets are given on page 4, Annex 1.
6.18 In the year 2000, when total annual debt service costs increase from Rs 1689 million to Rs 2219
million, JNPIT's additional container berths should be fully operational and contributing to the port's
profitability.
6.19   GOI has not yet decided to support JNPT with capital grants; a policy not previously applied to
the port subsector. Very cogent reasons support such a policy. JNPT is a specialized port using sophisti-
cated and expensive equipment. It should become India's showcase for container and bulk cargo
handling. For a fledgling agency such as this to rely solely on loan capital with its associated heavy fixed
interest and tight repayment schedule is not conducive to successful growth.
6.20  In the past, GOI has frequently granted to public corporations loan interest, repayment mora-
toriums and fiuther loans to meet mounting debt service obligations. Rather than solving problems, this
policy invariably leads to fiuther unmanageable indebtedness.



9
6.21   Corporations should be provided a sound financial base with a debt:equity ratio that can be
serviced, given reasonable economic growth and sound management. Financial goals can be determined
and monitored and management would not be tempted to relax on the assumption that unlimited loan
funds and loan servicing moratoriums are easily accessible in case of need.
6.22   GOI can reduce the burden of financing future port development by privatization, a solution
already strongly recommended by the Bank. Even if basic civil works infrastructure were to remain the
responsibility of JNPT, a port operating contract should require that, at least, future cargo handling equip-
ment needs be fmanced by the private operator. The prospects of achieving better cargo handling
productivity by privatizing operations have already been discussed earlier in this report.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1   The project has had the following significant benefits:
(a) Ship waiting time for berth, in Bombay port for container ships, has declined dramatically
since the facilities at Jawaharlal Nehru Port (JNP) went into operation: from more than 10
days on average in 1982/83 to less than one-fourth day in 1991/92. Waiting time for a berth
in JNP was nil in the latter year. The number of container ships which visited the two ports
in 1991/92 was 555 for Bombay and 237 for JNP. The resulting savings are estimated at
almost 8,000 ship-days valued at US$58.1 million. Similar savings have been realized for
bulk ships also (89 in Bombay and 55 in Nhava Sheva) totalling 1,440 ship-days valued at
over US$8.9 million.
(b) Time-at-berth for ships using JNP are considerably less than for ships using Bombay port,
since facilities at the former are more modern and designed to handle cargo at much faster
rates, especially for bulk. Average time-at-berth for container ships in JNP is 1.75 days/
ship, compared with 4.48 days/ship in Bombay. Also, ships visiting JNP are much larger
with each ship's cargo capacity equal to three ships visiting Bombay. This savings is
estimated at 1,940 ship-days/year, valued at US$11.1 million. In the case of dry bulk cargo
ships, the savings are estimated at 1,520 ship-days valued at over US$5.6 million.
(c) Benefit has also been realized from the use of larger vessels in the trade served by JNP
compared with those served by Bombay port. This has generally been in the form of a
freight advantage of US$4 per ton of bulk cargo handled at JNP. In 1991/92, the new port
handled 1.4 million tons of dry bulk cargo, with a saving of US$5.6 million in freight paid
by the Indian trade.
(d) There have also been savings in the form of reduced cargo loss for cargo handled at JNP
valued at 0.4% of the value of the cargo handled at JNP, amounting to about US$3 million
in 1991/92.
7.2  Tle above savings totalled approximately US$92.3 million in 1991/92 and will grow with
continued growth in the volume of traffic handled at JNPT. By the year 2000, the savings should be
some 50% larger, even though this may require some small investments in additional equipment,
especily for handling containers. The ERR on the project as completed can be estimated at 11.5%,
which is marginally acceptable, and compares with 20% at appraisal. (rable 2)



10
7.3   The project can be considered a sustainable investment provided JNPT's operational efficiency
and financial condition improves shortly. The prospects for traffic growth at JNP are very probable, and
the capacity and efficiency of the present facilities can be augmented with some marginal investments and
appropriate staff training. It is important, however, for JNPT to provide proper maintenance and
measures to improve operational efficiency. JNPT is undertaking maintenance based on the manual
provided by the contractors; however, due to the possible low quality level of the equipment and the lack
of JNPT's experience, significant deterioration has already occurred. JNPT's improvement is urgently
required.
8.    Bankl Peformance
8.1   The Bank's own supervision efforts were not systematic enough throughout the implementation
period in terms of mission composition. Although adequate in the early stage of implementation
engineering input was insufficient after 1989. However, the number of missions, two per year on
average, appear to have been appropriate.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1    Chart 7, Part HI, contains a review of the performance of the borrower in terms of the legal
covenants. JNPT's performance in terms of operational efficiency, however, has been unsatisfactory.
Productivity of cargo handling is still low and the maintenance of equipment is below standard. How-
ever, INPT's performance could have been much better if it had been staffed with personnel experienced
in a similar type of project or in handling potential problematic issues from the early stage of a project;
and/or had JNPT employed a more experienced foreign consultant to assist in preparation and imple-
mentation of the project. Extensive administrative changes, including possible privatization of some
activities, is necessary to accomplish any major improvements in operations and maintenance.
9.2   JNPT has paid a great deal of attention to environmental aspects, in particular maintenance and
creation of green areas, even though this was not a part of the scope of the project.
10.   Project Relationshin
10.1  The Bank's relationship with both GOI and JNPT during the project has been satisfactory.
11.   Consultant Services
11.1  The main consultancy services for the project, provided:
(a) engineering: preparation of bid documents and supervision;
(b) training: a comprehensive staff training program (financed by the Netherlands Government);
and
(c) studies:
(i) an Organization, Management and Finance (OMF) study (financed by the Netherlands
Government);
(ii) an Intermodal Transport Study; and
(iii) a Container Operations Manual.



11.2 Even before the appraisal of the project, the consulting firm that had been in charge of the project
preparation, had been selected by Q01 for project implementation. Altho'igh the firm apparently had
sufficient experience in this type of assignment, the performance of its staff assigned to this project was
inadequate, in that they did not seek sufficient input from experts experienced in specialized areas.
11.3   Generally all the training and studies were completed satisfactorily. Although the scope of the
staff training was expanded by utilizing the Netherlands Government grant funds, further training in
certain specialized areas, such as equipment operation and maintenance, is required. It should also be
mentioned that many trained operators of equipment left JNPT for other jobs thus causing a shortage of
trained operators. This is one reason for low operational efficiency. The financial part of the OMF study
is being utilized and other parts are under testing. The Container Operations Manual is also being
utilized for terminal operations. Certain modifications to cover all operational aspects are underway.
An origin/destination study as well as traffic forecasts were included in the Intermodal Transport Study
and these should be evaluated in the future.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1  The Loan Agreement, in the case of Loan 2387-IN, was adequate and appropriate for achieving
project objectives in the key organizational and financial areas. The appraisal report of the project
provided a useful framework for both the Bank and GOI to follow project implementation. INPT
provided a draft Project Completion Report for this project, with subsequent clarifications.



12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    The concept of Nhava Sheva Port conceived in 1961, was sanctioned only in 1982 and proposed
to the World Bank for funding. Thanks to the participation of the World Bank, which was the real
turning point, the Project was pursued and progressed thereafter to a tight time schedule. Even by World
Bank standards, this project is considered to be a model project, which has been constructed and conmmis-
sioned within an active construction time of 3-1/2 years.
2.    Objectives of the Project and Achievement
Qbjiectives
(a) Decongest Bombay Port;
(b) provide modern facilities for handling container and dry bulk cargo; and
(c) provide modern port management systems in port operation.
(a) Severe congestion in Bombay Port has already been reliaved and the waiting time of ships
at Bombay has been eliminated or reduced considerably;
(b) with the commissioning of the modern container handling system and bulk handling system,
major transfer of cargo from Bombay Port to JNP, even within three years of operation, has
taken place. JNP has become the No. 2 port in container handling amongst the 11 major
ports in India, next only to Bombay (Table 1). JNP is the leading port in the major ports
of India handling flnished fertilizers. JNP is also the second leading port in India in
handling raw materials for fertilizers. It is expected that this will improve further in the
coming years, provided there is no major change in the policy for fertilizers and finished
fertilizers through this port;
(c) unlike the practice in other major ports in India, where (i) dock labor; (ii) shore labor; (iii)
private labor; (iv) transport contractors, and (v) equipment contractors, are involved in port
operations, the entire operation in JNP is managed by a single agency, viz., JNPT. JNP is
managed by a professional team of a few officers and staff for rendering integrated service;
(d) unlike in other ports, where piece-rates, incentives and speed money are involved, JNP has
no such practice. JNP works round-the-clock on a composite tariff basis without the users
requiring to pay any additional costs as overtime for working either on Sundays/Holidays,
etc.;
(e) the Customs Collectorate in lNP and its management are distinctly different from that in
some other ports in its team work and response to the users; and
(t) environmental care and continuous monitoring have been introduced in the port project at
JNP.



13
3.    Aspects Reviewed by the World Bank in the Detailed Pro3ect Report and Their Implications
(a) At appraisal, the World Bank pruned down the traffic forecast assessed by the consultants
in the Detailed Project Report (DPR). However, the present traffic scenario indicates that
the forecast contained in the DPR, were more realistic than the pruned traffic forecast
assessed by the World Bank;
(b) World Bank cut down the facilities for export of bulk cargo. There were demands for
export facilities after the scope was modified. Hence, it was desirable to have some ficilities
for export. Alternatively reversible conveyor belt system for use of import and export
should have been selected;
(c) in respect of container berth, the World Bank assumed that only three cranes were needed
for handling the traffic to the tune of 3 million tons, in spite the port and the ministry
pointed out at that point of time that the throughput assumed for the cranes is on the high
side. The present experience bears out our 3pprehension. Providing three cranes for three
berths is a mismatch since internationally ships require a minimum of two cranes for a ship.
Of course, this was conceded by the World Bank in August 1989 itself, within a few months
after commissioning of the port, on the basis of which a case for augmentation of the
equipment was made by the port; and
(d) when the World Bank reviewed the area requirement of CFS, they had pruned the covered
area from 70,000 m2 recommended by the consultants to only 25,000 m2. This pruning
down resulted in the covered area created for CFS becoming inadequate within less than one
year from the date of commissioning of the port, resulting in a separate complex being set
up elsewhere as CFS for export.
4.    Other Observations
4.1   Though the World Bank Appraisal assumed that about five years will be a normal period for any
port to reach its planned throughput, they had not correctly assessed the phasing of the increase in the
initial two years to reach the designed throughput.
5.    Usefulness of the Bank Missions
5.1    The Bank was always found to be very quickc and responsive to the needs of the JNPT.
Discussions were always very open and frank. However, in certain cases, it was noticed that the Bank
was critical of the role of JNPT regarding non-settlement of claims and non-payment of certain disputed
bills. We had subsequently clarified to the Bank that actions followed by the port are in terms of the
contract and as dictated by legal and audit requirements.
5.2    We found the World Bank missions had been visiting the port at least twice a year and had come
out with critical reviews pointing out the action points and bottlenecks requiring immediate action at
various levels, like the port, MOST and other agencies. They were also supportive of JNPT in taking
up certain matters with contractors, when we expressed our dissatisfaion on the co-operation extended
by certain contractors at some critical stages of the project.



14
5.3    The World Bank was also kind enough to send a special port consultant to this project, with a
view to identifying operational problems which were hampering the performance of the port.
5.4   The World 1Bank were also appreciative of the fact that ours is a green site port and also one of
the ports executed with 1r;ast time overrun.
5.5    On resettlement matters the mission showed keen interest and one mission even went and saw for
themselves the two villages, which had been bodily shifted and resettled from Sheva to a place just out-
side the boundary of the port.
5.6   The World Bank has been suggesting a lot of improvements in the Custom formalities. While
certain formalities are linked with the policy of the Government, certain other problems have been sorted
out with the help and co-operation of the Customs collector. A very important feature, which we note
in the Bank missions is that they also have interaction with the users of the port like railways, customs,
CWC, shipping agents, stevedores, clearing agents, etc., so that they are able to suggest useful remedial
actions to the port. The Bank authorities were very much appreciative and accommodative of the need
for certain reallocation of the loan proceeding required during the execution of the project.
6.    Lessons Learnt from the Execution of the Project
6.1   The main infrastructural facilities which could not be developed, matching with the construction
of the port which are lacking even today are as under:
-   the construction of the road, national highway - NH-4B link; and
-   development of Dronagiri Node.
6.2   The port, however, tried its best to make contingent arrangements to overcome the delays in
above areas. The lesson learnt from above is that preferably the port itself should have been made
responsible for completion of very important infrastructure facilities which may have a direct bearing on
its success. All infrastructure facilities like, port users building, transportation facilities have not been
thought of at project stage. Delay in their implementation caused dissatisfaction with the port users.
Such operational requirements should have been part and parcel of the project.
6.3   In a project of this magnitude, where it is to be concluded through a number of contracts, with
interdependency between contracts, litigation could be a big hurdle throwing the complete project out of
gear. Litigation in one contract could have crippling effect on the progress of a number of other
contracts. In this project, in Contract C-1, there was litigation, when one of the bidders was disqualified
at the stage of opening of technical bid. This led to a delay of six months. In spite of the best efforts
by the port, by bringing to the notice of the judiciary that even a day's delay of such a mammoth project
could mean a loss of lakhs of rupees per day, six month's time was lost. Ultimately, the judgement was
in favor of JNPT. However, the resultant delay in completion and commissioning and rise in escalation
costs were inevitable. There was also litigation with regard to the acquisition of land, some of which has
not been sorted out till today, but fortunately clearance was obtained at least for the possession of the land
subject to the compensation to be sorted out subsequently, so that the construction work could be started
as planned.



15
6.4    All the bids prepared by the consultants were sent to the World Bank for review of the conditions,
specifications, commercial and technical details, etc. Present technical audit on conta'ner and bulk
terminal points out certain major planning and design deficiencies in the tender itself and as such the
review of the tenders at the port, the Government and the World Bank levels do not appear to be fool-
proof. Unfortunately at that point of time the port also did not have senior staff with the requisite back-
ground and experience in the facilities planned to scrutinise and monitor the proposals. As such the
World Bank may like to think of suitable controls in future projects to avoid such planning and design
lapses in major investments.
6.5   It is for consideration whether the design and planning of such large projects should also be
required to be reviewed by another senior consultant before and during implementation.
6.6    For haniling a project of this magnitude and with the latest state of-the-art technology, the port
could not get consultants with requisite experience for execution of the same. Though the consultants
had back-up arrangements, with other international consultants, on certain specialized areas, the overall
performance of the consultants had not been up to the mark, as could be borne out by the outcome of the
technical audits. It is, therefore, necessary to ensure that for projects of this magnitude, selection of the
right consultant is important. Though this apprehension was spelt out by the port in 1983, the port was
asked to continue with the same consultant by the Ministry, as otherwise, it would have led to further
delays.
6.7   In bigger projects there are always needs for going in for certain left out items which are required
to be tied up through similar contracts with a tight time schedule. The World Bank should permit LCB
for such low value works, but yet time bound requirements and accordingly fix the total monitoring limits
under the loan agreement. Our experience is that low value works do not attract global participation and
lead to loss of more time at pre tender acceptance stage.
7.     Suggestions for Consideration by the World Bank for this Project at the Present Stage
7.1    A project with state-of-the are technology in a developing country requires proper training of
personnel and also technical assistance for its effective management. No doubt, the Bank had stressed
the need for training of personnel in its appraisal report and also in its subsequent missions. To this end,
even training was included as a part of certain contracts in the supply of equipments. In reality, it was
found that such stipulations in the contract in terms of adequacy, duration and quality of training was not
found to be satisfactory. Training through supply contracts had to be done at a time when staff had not
been recruited. Language problems were also a barrier for importing training to tile different levels of
the staff. With regard to technical assistance, it is felt that this should have been visualized as a part and
parcel of the original project. Likewise a properly equipped training institute with facilities for simulator
type of training should also have been planned as a integral part of the project.
7.2    The World Bank may like to consider whether these areas can be funded, if needed, through new
operation. This can also include the cost of the rectification measures required as a follow up of
Technical Audit and the augmentation of equipments for the container terminal which are needed
urgently.



16
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
NONE
2.    Project Timetable
Date         Date        Date
Item                       Planned       Revised     Actual
- Identification
- Preparation                                              06/16/81
- Preappraisal                                             10/29/82
- Appraisal Mission              7/83                      05/10/83
- Post-Appraisal Mission                                   07/27/83
- Loan Negotiations               1/84                     01/16/84
- Board Approval                 3/84                      03/13/84
- Loan Signature                 5/84                      05/25/84
- Loan Effectiveness             8/84                      08/23/84
- Loan Closing                   6/89          06/92       06/30/92
- Loan Completion                03/89         12/92       12/31/92



17
3.    Loan Disbursements
Disbursements (in $ MiMion)
Bank Fiscal Year                 Estimated               Actual               Actual % of
and Quarter                      Cumulative            Cumulative             Estimated
1983184       1
2 
3
4
1984/85       1             .60                   .62                  0.2
2           2.00                  1.02                  0.4
3           12.00                 2.08                  0.8
4          30.00                  3.70                  1.S
1985186       1           50.00                  4.12                  1.6
2          70.00                  14.05                 5.6
3          95.00                  14.59                 5.8
4          120.00                 15.28                 6.1
1986/87       1           145.00                15.48                  6.2
2          170.00                 24.57                 9.8
3          190.00                 49.91                20.0
4          205.00                 96.04                38.4
1987/88       1          215.00                 96.04                 38.4
2          223.00                105.17                42.1
3          230.00                120.38                48.2
4          235.00                122.70                49.1
1988/89       1          240.00                 156.29                62.5
2          245.00                157.75                63.1
3          250.00                171.38                68.6
4          250.00                175.08                70.0
1989/90       1          250.00                 194.59                77.8
2          250.00                194.59                77.8
3          250.00                222.10                88.8
4          250.00                223.37                89.3
1990/91       1          250.00                 223.37                89.3
2          250.00                226.66                90.7
3          250.00                228.44                91.4
4          250.00                229.19                91.7
1991/92       1          250.00                 229.19                91.7
2          250.00                229.19                91.7
3          250.00                229.19                91.7
4          250.00                230.74                92.3
1992193       1          250.0
2          250.0



18
4.     Project Implementation
Project                               Planned      Actual    Months of
Components                            Completion  Completion   Delays
Civil Works
- Main Civil Works                             3/89        4/90       13
- Container Freight Station                   12/89        5/89       5
- Residential Colony                           3/89       12/90       21
- Electrical Distribution System               9/88        6/90       21
- Dredging                                     3/89        6/88       -9
EquiDm9g
- Bulk Handling Equipment                      3/89       12/92 1/    45
- Container Equipment                          3/89       12/92       45
- Workshop Equipment                           3/89        6/90       15
- Floating Craft                               9/88        7/90       22
Technical Assistance
- Taining                                     12/88        91922/     33
- OMF Study                                    6/87       10/89       28
- Intermodal Study                             6/87        7/89       25
- Container Manual                             9187        9/89       24
1/ Expectd
2/ Training financed by the Netherlands included.



19
5. Prolect Costs and Financinf
A. Prg!Mc l;g$t
*  Appraisal Estimate ----.--.-.-----.-.------......  Actuat --------------
Local   Forefgn     Total      Local   Foreign     Total      Local   Forefgn      Total
Costs  Exchange                Costs  Exchange                Costs  Exchange
Costs                          Costs                          Costs
- -- -- - (USS M)  .-.-- ------ ------  (Rupee M) -          .- ---------- (USS R) ------
A. Land Acquisition                            20.5       0.0      20.5      175.0       0.0     175.0       12.1        0.0      12.1
B. Civil Works                               154.7       62.6     217.3    1325.1      231.2    1556.3       91.6      16.0      107.6
C. Dredgfng                                    6.0       24.3      30.3       85.0     147.8     232.8        5.9      10.2       16.1
0. Plant and Equipment                        44.0       70.7     114.7      793.3     581.7    1375.0       54.8      40.2       95.0
E. Container Freight Station                   4.3        1.3       5.6      139.8       0.0     139.8        9.7        0.0       9.7
F. Sulk Storage Facilities                    13.8       13.4      27.2      264.7     115.4     380.1       18.3       8.0       26.3
G. Electric PAwer Distribution                 11.1       5.0      16.1      128.2       0.0     128.2        8.9        0.0       8.9
R. Utilities and Services                     25.5        1.0      26.5      455.1      23.2     478.3       31.5        1.6      33.1
1. Residential Colony                         24.6        0.0      24.6      705.8       0.0     705.8       48.8       0.0       48.8
J. TA and Training                             3.0        2.5       5.5       72.7       7.9      20.6        0.9        0.5       1.4
K. Engineering Services                         7.9       2.6      10.5      174.0       5.6     179.6       12.0        0.4      12.4
Base Estimate                             315.4      183.4     498.8    4258.7    1112.6    5371.3       294.3      76.9      371.2
L. Contingencies                              13.8       10.6      24.4       55.9      20.8      76.7        3.9        1.4       5.3
Physlcial                              52.4      30.4       82.8    1547.8     664.5    2212.3      107.0       45.9     152.9
Price
Total Project Cost                        381.6      224.4     606.0    5862.4    1798.0    7660.4       405.1     124.3      529.4
M. Interest during Construction               115.4       0.0     115.4    1224.8        0.0    1224.8       84.6        0.0      84.6
M. Front-end Fee on ISRO Loan                   0.0       0.6       0.6        0.6       0.0       0.6        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing Required                  497.0      225.0     722.0    7087.8    1798.0   8885.8       489.8      124.3      614.1
Overall average exchange (USS1nRs. 14.47) was calculated by using the actual Bank disbursements prof iLe and the yearly exchange



20
B. Proect Einancn
Sources                     Planned   Final
(US$'000) (US$'000)
Bank Group                   250.0    230.7
Bombay Port Trust    205.0    234.9
Kandla Port Trust    0.0               34.6
GOI and Co-Financier  267.0    160.4
Total                      722.0    660.6
C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Original          Final             Actual
Category              Allocation         Allocation        Disbursements
(1) Civil Works
(a)               70,000,000         70,021,558        70,021,296
(b)               54,000,000         32,740,000         25,920,470
(2) Equipment            100,000,000       131,475,000        118,808,612
(3) Technical Assistance,
Engineering Services
and Training         16,000,000         15,140,000         13,635,360
(4) Fee                    623,442           623,442
(5) Unallocated          9,376,558             0
Total                250,000,000        250,000,000       228,385,738



21
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicator     Appraisal             Esimate at            Estimated at
Estimate             Closing Date          FlI Development
Reduced ship   $20 million          $67.0 million        $100.5 miUion
waiting time   (1988)              (1992)                (2000)
Faster cargo    n.a.                $16.7 million        $25.1 million
handling                           (1992)                (2000)
Larger vessels
- Bulk cargo   $30 million         $5.6 million         $8.4 million
- Containers   $14 million         (1992)               (2000)
Reduced cargo loss                  $3.0 million         $4.5 million
(% of the cargo value) 0.4%
B. Economic Imnac
Appraisal     Estimated
Estimate              Actual
Economic Rate of
Retutn         20%                  11.5%
C. Pinancial Imnact
Appraisal            Actual
Estimate
Financial Rate of Retum             FY 92 13.5%          FY 92 1.7%
FY93 15.2%           Est. FY93 5.6%
FY 94 18.5%          Est. FY 94 7.7 %



22
D. Studie
Studies                         Purpose as Defined at        Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal
1.   OOrganition,             Development of optimal      Completed as          Finance Accounting Study is
Management and          struture and systems        planned              being utilized. Others are
Fincial Study           enabling JNPT to function                        under testing.
smoothly and efficiently
2.    Contaier Operations     Development of efficient     Completed as         Container Operation Manual
Manual and Training     operation in handling       planned               is being utilized. Training
containerized cargo                              improved productivity.
3.   Intermoda Transport      Development of efficient     Completed as         Too early to evaluate.
and Traffic Allocation    inlnd transportation of   planned
Study and Traffic       containers
Forecast



23
E. Traffic
('000 Tons)
JNP                          .mbayo Pat
at Appr                           Actual                         Actu
90   2,452ln                          Bumk     cAT*lcontjn           BUlM     jC     tainer
..BuRlkjI  Coitaher                           ld                            ICQI__=
1988189        1,000              780                                         29,342           3,600
90        2,452            X1,400            291            407           27,746          3,870
91        2,604             1,700          1,370            657           2s,500          4,286
92        2,756             1,900          1,443          1,314           24,070          3,433
93        2,908             2,200
94        3,060             2,500
95        3,279             3,000
96        3,496             3,300
97        3,715             4,000
F. Vessel Size
Average Tons (DWI)
JNP                                     Boay (- JNP
aI Appraisa                Acta                 at Ap .ail                Adual
BWlk j Coutini                   _                   R nl lr BIWk  coatu
_                                                                        -,
1987/88     22,000        20,000
89      23,000        21,000
90      24,000        22,000    30,404        18,794
91      25,000        23,000    40,470        17,564    16,800        15,000    13,233       5,580
92      26,000        24,000    34,140        14,688
93      27,000        25,000
94      28,000        26,000
95      29,000        27,000
96      30,000        28,000



24
7. Status of
Brief Descrtion                        Selstion
of Covenant                            Apptioable               Conpliane             Remarks
Lending rate for 8ank iunds to be not less   LA 3.01        Yes
than 11.5%, vith 25 years repayment
including 5 years grace period.
BPT to lend an amount of Rs 2 biDion at    LA 3.02          Yes
10% with 15 years repayment inoluding S
years Prace perW.
Other loans required to be made available   PA 2.09         No          The tenns and conditions are under
at 10.25% with repayment period of 25                                   consideration by the GovL
years including 10 years grace period.
Ports acounts are to be audited by    PA 4.02               Yes
auditors and to be furnished with 9
months.
Port is not to incur debts exceeding US$10  PA 4.03         Yes
million per annum for purpos  other than
port constucdon if debts service ratio is
below 1.2.
In 1989-90 and 1990-91 port to achieve an  PA 4.04          No          The operating ratio for 1991-92 is
operating ratio of .6.                                                  0.7. As the traffic did not
materalize the ratio of 0.6 could
not be achieved during 1989-90 and
1990-91. The ratio of 0.6 to be
achieved in 1992-93.
From financial year 1989-90 onward                          Yes
rvenues to cover operating expenses and
debt service.



8. Use of Bank Resounxs
A. StaffJnmus
1979     1988 2 I                    X 983     1294     198S     1986     1987     1988     1289     19       .1221    1922      giull
Preappraisa         13.00    10.4     19.0     30.3      118.3                                                                                       191.00
Appraisd                                        0.2      51.3      32.2                                                                              83.70
NcgotiairOs                                                        11.9                                                                               11.90
Supervision                                                         2.5     17.7     22.3     30.8     17.0     14.3      12.9     8.1      6.5      132410
U,
C'4



B. Mission Data
Month/                   No. of           Days in      Specializations        Perfonnance       Rating         Type of
Year                    Person            Field        Resented              Status at         Trendb/       Pblems c
IdantiPrep                4/79                3                30                EC, EGR, PA             -
Appraisal                 10/82               6                60                EC,EGR                  -                 -
Supervision 1             9/84                 2                15               EC,EFR                  2                 2
Supervision l             12/84                1               6                 EGR                     2                 2             P
Supervision III           4/85                 1               4                 EGR                     2                 2             p
Supervision IV            10/85                1               5                 EGR                     2                 2
Supervision V             2/86                 2               6                 EC, EGR                 2                 2
Supervision VI            10/86                2                16               EGR, PA                 2                 2
Supervision Vi            5/87                 1               7                 EGR                     2                 2
Supervision VIll          11187               2                6                 EGR                     2                 2
Supervision IX            6/88                3                 15               EC, EGR,                I                 I
Supervision X             10-11/88            3                IS                EC, EGR, EC             1                 2
Supervision Xl            5/89                 1               5                 EGR                     1                 2
Supervision XII           10/89                1               5                 PA                      2                 3
SupetvisionXIII           1-2/90              3                30                FA, EGR,EC              I                 1
SupervisionXIV            4/90                2                6                 PA, EC                  1                 2
SupevisionXV              11/90               3                 15               FA,EC                   2                 3
Supervision XVI           7-8/91              2                10                FA, EC                  I                 1
SupervisionXVII           10-11/91            3                 12               FA, EC, EGR             2                 2
Supervision XVIII         2/92                2                4                 FA, EC
Completion                10192               3                20                EC, FA, EGR
Total                                                          292
Comments
If 1 = problem frie or minor problems; 2 = moderate problms; 3 = major problems.
bl I = iinmving; 2 = staionary; 3 = deteriorating.
 P = Proceent.



27
@X0  2 -J  p   S A      tE    =  {    :[f 
C-
44
S   t   -        Y0                   X    
t   ffi   g   |   t  g~~~ SfJo
S~~~ 0                        0        
-J          -  e > "       
-J       '0   4         -   -   -1       It 



28
Page 1 of4
AWAI{ARIALNMERU PORT TRUST
NUAVA SHVA PORT PROJECT - LOAN 2387-IN
PROIRCS C)MPLE1ON RPR
PbunitlHiilb
FY90        PY90         PY91        FY91         FY92         FY92
Apprsal                  Apprsl                   Apprais
Year nded Much 31                         Edimes         Actal    Eia             Actul    Etima            Acta
C-tale CPo (Mu to-)                            1.7         OAI          1.9         0.66         2.2          1.21
Bu  cgo    (multons)                           2.6         0.29        22.7         137          2.9          1.44
Contaior RVue                                  S71         126          66S          IS1         770          347
Bulk Revem                                     422         114          446         324          471          325
BataeReatal                                     46          15           46          26           46           38
O&srOpmtinglRsvue                                0           0            0           0            0           21
TOaW Operatg Expenses                         1039         255         1157         531         1287          731
Dtmo Operat   Expeneas:
Ctanr Cago                                                   4                       26                        36
Bulk Cago                                                    3                       SO                        61
Ca!e Drdging                                                25                       37                        35
sub.ot                                     0           32           0          113            0          132
Indie  Operatng EBens                                       21                       62                        94
sub-total                                215           53         231          175         249           226
Oener Admigsation                               10          57           12          65           14           72
DepecIadon                                     173          183         173         255          173          282
Toetl Operatig EpB                             398         293          416         495          436           580
opentig &S lu                                  641          -38         741           36         851           151
Add: hwveablaerest                              16          37           29           47          49           1IS
Las: Ie_t an LIW-tem Debt                      791           6          791          28          790           74
Net Rcve                                      -134           -7         -21           55         110           195
Opatg Ratio                                   38.3        114.9        36.0         93.2        33.9          79.3
ROR a   isLt. VsIed Pxud Asse %                9.6           _         11.5          OA          13.5          1.7
Soue    PT and Bank Staff



29
Pago2 of4
JAWAHARLAL NU PORT TRUT
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT -  OAN 23S71N
PROJECI COMPLEION RBPORT
pinRcl Mi1haiRb
p.b=)
BALANCE 8T
FY90      FY90        FY91       PY91        FY92         FY92
Appraisal             Appraisa               Appai
Yeaw Cded Mrch 31                    Edtim         Actal   Esimat        AcU       Estinmts       Actul
Ors sFid Asaa                            7075       $287       7075       8781         7075        9150
Len Accmmated Deprqcatio                  520        IS5        693        441          867         753
Net Fix Aets in us                       6555       S102        6382      8340         620S        8397
Woc im pwgreg                               0       350            0        220           0          14
ToaWl Fixed Amets                        65S5      84S2         6382      8560         6308        8411
!    1vesmiat                              75       449          207        638         468         999
Cob St Bob                                 36         IS          39        28           42          SS
nwentaries                                 35          1         37          3           39          16
Aconta Recivabl                            87        SD           96         36         107          56
OlberCat ASSU                               0       748            0        692           0         787
Totl Cufeat Ass                           158        814         172       759          188         914
Les Curet Liabilities                      18       304           19        199          21         176
NdtCureutAaels                            140       510          153        560         167         738
Tot Ase                                  6770      9411         6742      9758         6843       10148
PaidUpCapit                                26         0          26          0           26           0
Rtaind  Enlgs                             659        102        -631       IS3         -571         349
Toa EqlW                                 -633        102        .60         153        -54S         349
S1 ffoPovideI Funds                         0          1           0         4            0          10
IAX Tam Deb:
Govu     01 India                        sm        4782        5452       5094         5649        S332
BombaylKadla Pot Tre                     2131      4525         1944      4507         1739        44S7
Toal LAog Tam Dekt                       7403      9307        7396       9601         73S8        9789
Toal Liabities & Equity                  6770      9411         6791      9758         6843       10148
Sorce 3p'r and Back Staf_



30
Psge 3 of 4
IAWAHARAL NEHRU PORT T U
NHAVA S$EVA PORT PROJBC - LOAN 23S7-lN
PROJPT COMPLMON AM3OR
Fogrcast Ttaffk. Raiue v   s   xu
RBVBANINIJR
Year ended March31                     FY93      FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY9S    FY99               7Year
Container cawgo   Onil tons)            1.44      2.40      3.42     3.60      3.96      4.38     4.80       24.00
Bulk Cargo          tam)               2.20       2.50      2.81     2.82      2.82      3.03     3.20       19.38
Canainr Reve                            412        686       978     1030      1133      1253     1373        6865
Bulk Revenu                             497        565       635      637       637      685       723        4379
Pate Relb                                53         65        SO      100       125       155      190         768
Oth  Opatig Revevuw                      21         23       26        30        35       41        48         224
Toa Op0at  Reveue                       983       1339      1719     1797      1930     2134      2334       12236
Tald Cub qO a*g Eqmn                    347        409       490      521       530       541      560        3398
Cah Opeting Supbus                      636        930      1229     1276      1400      1594     1774        8838
Add, lavin aatlowed                     130        150       160      150       140       150      170        1050
Tta Cash aurphus                        766      I108       1389     1426      1540      1743     1944        9888
Log4tm Debt _ters                       280        564       853     1031      1041      983       987        5739
Decox                                   228        249       271      283       302      366       411        2110
Net Rvenu                               258        267       265      112       197       394      546        2039
9oeue aad AvoUnlioai of FunQ
Siou of :anis.
TOWal Cu    plus                        766       1080      1389     1426      1540      1743     1944        9888
001 COpfIal Grant                       975        980      1135      640      1100     2580      1795        9205
Total                                  1741       2060      2524     2066      2640     4323      3739       19093
Dirpositlo of Foods.:
Long-m  Debt _nrt                       280        564      853      1031      1041      983       987        5739
Ln-tm Debt Ropoyten                     160        262      38S       503       563      621       702        3199
Toal Debt S&vice                        440        826      1241     1534      1604      1604     1689        8938
c       _ptalipediue                    975        980      1135      640      1100     2580      1795        9205
Inrae   in in_ea  t                     304        230       I20     -142      -103       95       204         708
I_ea is Woddn  Ca     l                  22         24       28        34        39       44        51         242
TOal                                   1741       2060     2524      2066      2640     4323      3739       19093
Seoues RIFT and Bank Stff



31
P4e 4 of 4
JAWAHARLNENRUPR
NH&VA SHEVA PORT PROjET - LOAN 23S7-lN
ERO=0 CMIQp
.~ ~ ~ ~~(o _                   .a
Yewa on    Marc31               F3    FY94    PY9            FY9S       FY97       F9         FY99
Grosw Ped Aseb                  10139    11119    12254    12894       13994      16574       IS369
Len Accumuled Dqeciatic           981     1230      1501     1784       2086       2452        2863
Net Fixd AWa  in uae             9158     9889    107S3    11110       11908      14122       15506
Walk imprcge                        0        0         0        0          0          0           0
Toa  Fixed Asset                 9158     9889    10753    11110       11908      14122       15506
Inweatmu                         1303     1533      1653     1511       1408       1503        1707
Net CurrtA  s -                   760      784       812      846        SSS        929         9S0
Ttal Aae                        11221    12206    13218    13467       14201      16554       18193
GO! capitalGrAl                   97S     1955      3090     3730       4830       7410        9205
Retiwd Eanings                    602      864      1124     1231       1422       1810        2348
TOa Equity                       157      2819      4214     4961       6252       9220       11553
Staff Pnsa ldontPFu   nds         is        20        25       30         36         42          50
Total Log Tem Det                9629     9367      8979     S476       7913       7292        6590
Tol Liabitl    & EquIB          11221    12206    13218    13487       14201      16554       18193
DcbEquib Ratio                  86114    77/23    86/32    63/37       56/44       44/56      36/64
Finci Rat of Rear a
Hirially Valud FIed             5.6%      7.7%     9.5%      9.1%       9.2%       9.0%       8.5%
Sourcc INFr and Bank Staff



32
JAWAHARLAL NEIRU PORT TRUS
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT - LOAN 2387
PROJECT COMPILETON REPORT
Caruo Trafric in Terms of Prinoipal Commodities
('000 tonnes)
r_                        -            ---                                        _ _                                                       -                                            -            E_---: 
POW                    Po              Om             bv                                                     r                                                       X .T  1  1
olW                                2892 19M                                          73 w7                          2am 92  1720                                 (6            22U           1X
191                UV57                          21               St             2n8            1251             N0           (7V           1299          O2
P-6                              N12                    2          124              87                ff            3369           IS                  3                       too630        7297
199t                            1748             tOo               195            19"            610                                        1227           a4
V1.aldispim,                       1892              6384        6161              1so              949            3014           2194              79           (0           1780          21522
1991               197         549S              4#0             1044            2182           270?              02           ()           1855          19121
1992              10124        134               53t              279            4971             81            2003         (100           261           25041
199t               91J6        1S49              509              343            4t              IS9           1132         (100           28            24518
Tiada                            m1992                 496                         302               304            2S0                             202          (28)          1659           SW6
1991                472                          268              226            237                             119          (2M 1599                    5075
Cdidn                             2192               1834                           148              466                                            286          (5             721           7455
1891              5004                           181              434                                            27m         (49)            581            m
Newmw  p2m                        1992                62          692 m41                                                                            i5 s         (            1004          8274
1991                8t2        6121              6                                                                10           (1)          12203          0S3
Mamu                               1992              1no6    12517                  122                                                                                         590          15i
199t               1369       12266              166                                                                                         190          14911
ombhy                            21902              27077                           22               484                                           3433        cm74                         275
1991              19985                           36              674                                           4286         (2n            495           29786
314??                              192                                              a2s              820                                           1314         (10             3s            2701
1991                                             121              845                                            657          (5)              4           207
i  lb                             1992              law4                            366              21                              54             "3           (2)           346           21003
1991              Ila                            10               316                             32             102          (43)          3466          19481
?OTAL                              1899             49618        32088  I          1125            S3W6            16101           d1m             7188                      n19n75        15781
1991             4#i83        315J4  |          181              4182           13669           5849            8043        (49            20241         112855



33
TABLE 2
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT (LN. 2387-IN)
Project CoDmpletion Renort
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analwis
(1992 prices, million US$)
Base Case
Capital                                         Total        Net Cash
Year    Investment  Maintenance             Total        Benefits        Plow
1985          9.2                              9.2                         (9.2)
1986         28.2                             28.2                         (28.2)
1987        198.4                            198.4                        (198.4)
1988         65.7                             65.7                        (65.7)
1989        128.3                            128.3                        (128.3)
1990        118.5                            118.5                        (118.5)
1991         14.7                             14.7                         (14.7)
1992          3.7         12.3                16.0             92.3        76.3
1993         47.4         12.3                59.7             97.1        37.4
1994                      12.3                12.3            102.2         89.9
1995                      12.3               122.3            107.5         95.2
1996                      12.3                12.3            113.1        100.8
1997                      12.3                12.3            119.0        106.7
1998                      12.3                12.3            125.2        112.9
1999                      12.3                12.3            131.7        119.4
2000                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2001                      12.3                12.3            138.5        120.0
2002                      12.3                12.3            138.5        120.0
2003                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2004                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2005                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2006                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2007                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2008                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2009                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2010                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
2011                      12.3                12.3            138.5        126.2
Total       672.5                                           2S00.1       1.677.
ERR =           11.5 %
NPV (10%)=          4.6
Notes: (i Benefits projected for only 20 yean.
(ii) Maienance costs assumed to be 2% of capital costa.
(iii) TraffLo and benefits assumed to grow 5% p.a. to the year 2000, when additional facilities,
pattiaclay for cotainers, may be needed; so fAther grwth assumed.
(iv) Ship time valued at US$5,700 (Bombay) and USS11,200 (Nhava Sheva) per day for
onainer ships and US$3,710 (Bombay) and US$10,190 (Nhava Shwva) for bulk ships
(from the Bank's ship Cost User Manual).



