Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I71LE W'CY
Report No. P-3724-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250.0 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
February 17, 1984
g This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 30, 1984)
tJS$l.00     =  Rs 10.775249
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.09280528
Rs 1 million = US$92,805
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 9.75,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BPT       -       Bombay Port Trust
dwt       -       Dead weight tons
GOI       -       Government of India
grt       -       Gross (Registered) tons
HIPL      -       Howe (India) Private Limited
ICB       -       International Competitive Bidding
LCB       -       Local Competitive Bidding
m         -       Meter
MOST      -       Ministry of Shipping and Transport
NSPT      -       Nhava Sheva Port Trust
PIU       -       Project Implementation Unit
POL       -       Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants
SLA       -       Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Ton-kml   -       Ton-kilometers
.i



(ii)                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             The Nhava Sheva Port Trust (NSPT)
Amount:                  US$250.0 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                   Repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace
at the applicable rate of interest; front-end fee
of 0.25% of base loan amount.
Re-lending Terms:        From the Government of India (GOI) to NSPT, with
repayment over 25 years, including five years grace
at an interest rate of 11.5% per annum. GOI would
bear the interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Project Description:    The purpose of the project is to ensure that the
Bombay area can accommodate the expected growth in
marine freight through that area by the year 1993.
The project would construct a new container and
bulk freight port with associated dredging of
access channels at the Nhava Sheva site, about 20
kms distance from the existing, overcrowded Bombay
port. Also included is the necessary mechanical
equipment, linkages to the Indian Railway (IR)
network, land acquisition, staff housing, and
training in port operations. The new port is
expected to move an annual volume of 250,000
containers and 3.7 million tons of bulk cargo
(foodgrain and fertilizers) by 1993. The project
return is sensitive to traffic forecasts and
delays in completion of the construction and
commissioning of the port. Traffic forecasts have
been conservatively estimated, however, and ade-
quate provision for additional financing of the
NSPT's operations in the critical early years has
been arranged. The risks are therefore considered
to be adequately covered and are acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(iii)
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Item                           Local         Foreign         Total
Land Acquisition                             20.5            --             20.5
Civil Works                                 154.7          62.6            217.3
Dredging                                      6.0          24.3             30.3
Plant and Equipment                          44.0          70.7            114.7
CDntainer Freight Station                     4.3           1.3              5.6
BUlk Storage Facilities                      13.8          13.4             27.2
Utilities and Services                       36.6           6.0             42.6
Residential Colony                           24.6            --             24.6
Technical Assistance and
Engineering Services                       10.9           5.1            16.0
Base Cost Estimate                        315.4         183.4           498.8
Physical Contingencies                       13.8          10.6             24.4
Pi-ice Contingencies                         52.4          30.4             82.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                     381.6 1/      225.4           606.0
Interest During Construction              115.4            --           115.4
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                   --           0.6             0.6
Total Financing Required                  497.0         225.0           722.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      50.0          200.0           250.0
Bombay Port Trust                        205.0             --           205.0
GOI and Cofinancing                      242.0           25.0           267.0
Total                                  497.0          225.0           722.0
1/  Including an estimated US$76.0 million in taxes and duties.



(iv)
Estimated Disbursements:                      (US$ millions)
FY85     FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
*            Annual                               30.0 1/  90.0    85.0    30.0    15.0
Cumulative                           30.0 1/ 120.0   205.0   235.0   250.0
Rate of Return: About 20%
Appraisal Report: No. 4826-IN, dated February 16, 1984.
1/ Including payment of Front-end fee of about US$0.6 million.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE NHAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India for an amount equivalent to US$250.0 million on standard terms to help
finance the construction and commissioning of a new container and bulk freight
port at Nhava Sheva, near Bombay, and associated equipment and infrastructural
items. The proceeds of the loan will be onlent by the Government to the newly
formed Nhava Sheva Port Trust at 11.5% per annum interest for 25 years includ-
ing 5 years' grace. The exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by the
Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Karnataka Social Forestry Project
(No.P-3683-IN), dated November 21, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion o4 lt)mestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 a,veraged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growvth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output.  As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and ldomestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
fooclgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tiorn of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/31 and 8.6% in ]L981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where nornal weatlier helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of iaflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83.  This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, tne effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthe!a extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% ia 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two precedtig years was creditable.  There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important



-4-
that: India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a sitiiatton of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenoni of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon t:he enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sect:or enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
frorm 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to £L more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$1.3 billion or 2.1% of GDF. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment: and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
starntial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond th-
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers  and export credits.  India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted
commlercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development



-5-
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been dIrawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth FLve-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottleaecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks il key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if so[ne increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. I'Iuch of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-



-6-
ing tv higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments oE thIe rcest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment.  While the gap between domestic
consunption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated oEftake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energJ prospects.
l8.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to worlcd financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account cdeficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyonid levels expected to be available from norma'l
concsssional sources.  Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on ccmmercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorablea or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate oE growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of



-7-
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
nealth and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty reraains the central goal of Indian economic
growtha.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
smnall farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
crecdits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 9 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million lias been repaid, US$56 alilion sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loars and US$8 million equity.  A summary statement of IFC disbursements as oE
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objiectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and or-farm developtnent designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to facLaers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, pariticularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions.  Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plaa.  The rontinued
active involvement of the Bank: Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fiel,ds. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural alid indtustrial sectors.  Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investaeiets in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority.  Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
tation infrastructure would mnitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of exter,ial resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Conisequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance oiari be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, india is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvemenl. in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external paymclnts position is still manageable.  The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million relaail to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA-s US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India-s total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Sectoral Overview
29.     The transport sector is a vital link in the growth of the Indian
economy. On-land freight transportl/ has grown at an annual rate of 2.9%
and 6.6% for the rail and road subsectors, respectively, over the last
si.xteen years.  Passenger transport has grown at a faster rate over the
same period, at 5.2% and 8.3% for rail and roads, respectively.2/ The
shipping subsector has not grown significantly during this period and, in
1982, India's merchant fleet comprised 407 vessels of six million gross
tons (grt) of which 68 plied coastal routes and 339 served the overseas
trade. About 33% of India's trade was shipped in national carriers in
1982. 'The other modes of transport for freight and passengers--pipelines,
aircraft and inland waterways, while important, account for less than 3%
of total freight and less than 1% of total passenger movements in India.
3C.     GOI's current long-term investment policy emphasizes further
development of the transport sector so that it can efficiently meet the
increased demand for transport resulting from growth in the economy. The
Government has allocated Rs 101.6 billion--uL 10.4% uf iLb Lotal yu>;i
investment in the current Sixth Five-Year Plan--to the sector and these
funds are being channeled to (a) increase investments in the highway
sector--with the emphasis oni rural roads; (b) improve efficiency in rail-
way operations; (c) increase the capacity of container-handling facilities
at major ports; and (d) decongest the central business districts of large
metropolitan areas.
Shipping and Ports
31.     Within the transport sector approximately 12% of the investment
funds are earmarked for shipping and ports. Historically, this allocation
has been as high as 20%--reflecting the now completed East Coast port
expansion program during 1969-1978, and as low as 7% in the 1961-1966 Plan
period. The major share (in excess of 50%) of India's foreign trade,
which totaled 69 million tons of cargo in 1982/83, is channeled through
the ports of Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras. Both the Calcutta and Madras
ports, which are on the east coast, have recently been modernized.
The Port of Bombay
32.     Bombay is the country's most important industrial, commercial and
financial center. Although Greater Bombay, as defined, is large, at 438
sq. km., 51% of the population of 10.5 million and 71% of the area's
total employment is concentrated on the 68 sq. km. island--map IBRD 17680
1/ Measured in Ton-km.
2/ Measured in passenger-km.



-11-
refers. The Bombay port currently handles 17 million tons of cargo per
year. Port congestion, in recent times, has created situations involving
greater than 90% berth occupancy rates (a 70% berth occupancy rate is
considered a reasonable norm) and average ship waiting times of 40 days.
Dry cargo (general or bulk), which represents about half of this volume,
is moved across the port's three original docks (which were built between
1894 and 1914) and some subsequent additions, which were built in 1962.
The remainder of the freight, which is primarily petroleum, oil and
lubricants (POL) is handled at the marine terminal located at Butcher
Island.
33.     As can be seen from the map, the physical location of the port on
the southeastern tip of the densely populated island inevitably leads to
inefficiency and congestion. All traffic destined for inland distribution
must travel either by road or rail the entire length of the already over-
crowded island. In addition, the port, designed and built in the early
1900's, was not designed to handle the size of ships and the quantity and
type of cargo (particularly containerized cargo) that has become the norm
worldwide today.  Some changes have been made:  in 1956 a new oil terminal
was built and, in 1962, seven additional berths were built with IDA's
assistance. No further expansion is possible at the Bombay port and, in
any event, the port's inherent draft restrictions (22,000 dwt
approximatel/), inadequate staging areas and congested road and rail
access to the docks, all suggest the need for a satellite port.
34.     General cargo is increasingly being containerized--a worldwide
trend that has revolutionized marine freight transport. Although not
designed for container operations, the port is now handling about 11,000
containers a month--up from 2,500 per month just four years ago.
Additionally, bulk cargo volumes (foodgrain, POL, and fertilizers,
primarily) also have continued to increase each year. This dramatic
growth was not matched by improved port management practices and, today,
the port is hampered by low labor productivity, mandatory stuffing and
stripping of all containers inside the dock area, unsystematic handling of
containers and very slow clearance of goods from the docks.
35.     In response to the projected rapid growth of container and bulk
cargo traffic movements through the year 2000, the Government has accepted
the need for a modern container and bulk handling facility near Bombay.
The Nhava Sheva location would accommodate ships up to 70,000 dwt, provide
adequate land for staging and operating areas and easy access to both road
and rail transport facilities. Coincident with the development of the
port, the Government is encouraging the development of New Bombay--a
satellite city near the proposed port, which is in early stages of con-
struction and development.
1/ dwt--dead weight tons: maximum loaded weight and hence draft of a
vessel.



-12-
Bank Group Activities in the Sector
36.     The Bank has participated to the extent of US$160 million in one
shipping project (Credit 328-IN, September 26, 1972) and four ports
projects, two in Calcutta (Loan 198-IN, June 25, 1958 and Loan 294-IN,
August 17, 1961), one in Madras (Loan 199-IN, June 25, 1958) and the last,
in 1962, for the Bombay port as mentioned above (Credit 27-IN, September
14, 1962).  Of these five projects, only one Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) has been prepared, anid that in November 1973 on the second
Calcutta project (Loan 294-IN). The PPAR concluded that the project paid
tco little attention to the port management, and personnel aspects of the
project and concentrated rather too heavily on the technical issues. The
Report also stressed the importance of adequate attention being given to
the determination of traffic forecasts which were significantly higher
than actual traffic. There has been no involvement by the Bank in the
ports and shipping subsectors since 1962, as GOI preferred not to use
international competitive bidding (ICB) for selecting port contractors or
fcr purchasing the necessary equipment. In recent years, however, as
serious delays in deliverieis of locally manufactured equipment, and
rapidly changing technology impacted on port throughputs, GOI has agreed
to a renewed Bank involvement in the sector.
37.     The Bank has also participated in four non-port projects totalling
US$324 million that are aimed at developing the Greater Bombay area. The
Bombay Urban Transport project (Loan 1335-IN, December 20, 1976), and two
Bombay Water Supply project (Credit 390-IN, January 22, 1974, and Credit
842-IN, November 13, 1978) are all aimed at supporting the upgrading of
the urban infrastructure around the city of Bombay--specifically the water
supply and sewerage facilities and urban transport capabilities. The
Maharashtra Water Supply, (Credit 899-IN, June 22, 1979) is upgrading the
supply of potable water inter alia in the areas immediately surrounding
the proposed site of the NhaLva Sheva port. Credit 390-IN was completed
satisfactorily after a short delay and the other projects are all being
imp?lemented satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.     The proposed project results from a decision by GOI to approve the
development of a satellite port facility near the city of Bombay. In 1981
the Ministry of Shipping and Transport (MOST) retained a private consult-
ing fEirm to prepare a detailed project report showing a schematic layout
ancl cost benefit estimates. In May 1982 GOI established the Nhava Sheva
Port Trust (NSPT) as the independent. agency empowered under the Major
Ports Trust Act 1963, to initially oversee the technical preparation of
the! Nhava Sheva port and, now, oversee project implementation. The Bank
appraised the project in October 1982 and again in May 1983. Negotiations
were held in Washington in January 1984 with a delegation representing the
Government of India, MOST, anad NSPT coordinated by Mr. N. Misra of the
Department of Economic Affairs.



-13-
Project Objectives and Justification for Bank Involvement
39.     The purpose of the project is to ensure that the Bombay area can
acconmodate the expected growth in marine freight through that area
through the mid 1990s. The Bank's involvement in the project is justified
on three grounds. First GOI has sought advice on traffic forecasting
methodology and assistance in ensuring that the resultant project is
optimally sized given the most likely traffic forecasts. Second, the port
would make extensive use of modern technology in terms of both design
concepts and equipment to be used and the Bank has experience and exper-
tise in this area that has been, and would continue to be, of assistance
to the Government. Third, the Bank has been emphasizing efficient port
management as a key ingredient in port productivity in an effort to avoid
problems endemic to India's existing ports. Since NSPT is a newly created
organization, the Bank has, throughout project preparation, emphasized the
need for an extensive training component for the project and appropriate
organizational systems and procedural studies for NSPT.
Project Description
40.     The project would involve the construction and equipping of the
Nhava Sheva Port complex comprising a 680 m wharf for handling containers
(sufficient to berth one large and two medium-size vessels simultaneously)
with four access bridges; a 500 m wharf for handling bulk materials (suffi-
cient to berth two bulk carriers simultaneously) with one access bridge; a
service berth some 200 m in length; access channels; paved areas and
storage buildings and offices; a Container Freight Station located about
8 km away from the port site; road and railway sidings; and a residential
colony for staff. The project would provide the necessary plant and
equipment that would be required for container operations, continuous, and
grab unloaders and conveyor belts for bulk cargo operations.
41.     The project vould finance the acquisition of three tugs, three
pilot launches, two mooring launches, a survey launch and appropriate
navigational aids. The project would finance the installation of essen-
tial services (water and electricity primarily) to the complex, the provi-
sion of technical assistance for staff training, an Organization,
Management, and Financial study and for the preparation of a Container
Operations Manual. The project would also finance engineering services
for the supervision and coordination of the civil, mechanical and electri-
cal contracts throughout the project construction period.
42.     The comprehensive training of staff in all aspe'~ts of the new
port's operations, and at all staff levels, is critical to the proposed
project's ultimate success--particularly in the light of the sophisticated
machinery to be introduced under this project. MOST and NSPT agree that
the proposed project should include a well-designed program to provide
extensive formal and practical training to a large number of personnel. A
Container Operations Manual would be developed incorporating the operating
and maintenance procedures to be followed for all major items of equipment
and the operating procedures to be followed at the port complex. The
proposed approach would involve collaborating with a modern sister port,
or ports, abroad in designing the program and for providing both the
formal and practical on-the-job training in operations, maintenance, and
management. Approximately 144 man-months of expatriate and 120 man-months



-14-
of local specialist services at US$12000 and US$5000 per man-month,
respectively, are financed under the Technical Assistance component, as
are about 200 fellowships at: US$6000 each and local training of US$300
each for 500 employees. Agreement would be reached with NSPT and GOI on a
training program that is satisfactory to the Bank (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.08) and understandings have been reached on the
content and timing of the program.
Proiect Costs and Financing
43.     The total project ccst is estimated at US$606.0 million including
US$76 million of taxes and duties. Foreign exchange costs of US$225
miLlion are included in the total costs. Interest during construction
adds some US$115.4 million to the financing required. The principal cost
components, in 1983 prices, net of physical and price contingencies are:
land acquisition, US$20.5 million; civil works including dredging,
US$247.6 million; plant and equipment, US$114.7 million; Container Freight
Station and bulk storage facilities, US$32.8 million; utilities and
services, US$42.6 million; a residential colony, US$24.6 million; and
technical assistance, training and engineering services, US$16 million.
Physical contingencies amounting to US$24.4 million, or about 5% of the
project base cost of US$498.8 million, have been calculated on the basis
of 8% contingency for general civil works and 15% for the dredging
comiponent. Price contingencies amounting to US$82.8 million, representing
17% of the project base cost, were calculated on the expected foreign cost
inflation rate of 6% in 1983/84, 7.5% in 1984/85 and 7% thereafter and,
for local costs, 8% in 1983/84, 7.5% in 1984/85, 7% in 1985/86 and 6%
thereafter.
44.     The proposed Bank loan of US$250 million would finance about
US$200 million of the foreign exchange costs of the project and about
US$50 million of the local costs of technical assistance, engineering
services and civil works. This would cover about 47% of the total project
cost, net of duties and taxeis. The balance of the funding required
(US$472 million) for the project would come from several sources including
a loan from the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) in an amount of US$205 million
with an interest rate of 10% per annum and a 15-year term including five
years' grace (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The BPT is being
required by GOI to provide this funding out of its reserves and the rate
and term of the loan offered by BPT are considered satisfactory.
Cofinancing in an aggregate amount of US$80 million will be sought for the
dredging component of the civil works and some of the equipment supply.
At least one bilateral donor (the Saudi Fund) has expressed interest in
providing about US$50 milliozn for the project. A "balance" loan from GOI
under terms satisfactory to the Bank would be arranged to bridge the gap
between the amount required to finance the project and the amounts being
provided by the BPT, the Bank, and the cofinanciers.  The exact amount of
the GOI balance loan would be determined upon receipt of cofinancing
information following project approval, but would, in any event, be made
to NSPT with an interest rate of 10.25% per annum for 25 years, including
10 years' grace.  If NSPT fails to realize cash flows sufficient to meet
its full debt service requirements, it would meet, in full, its obliga-
tions to the Bank prior to servicing the GOI balance loan (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02). Execution of a Financing Arrangement between
NSPT, BPT and  GOI covering the balance of funds required by the NSPT



-15-
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01). Throughout the life of the proposed loan, NSPT
would require the Bank's agreement to any longer term borrowing in excess
of US$10 million in any year and US$30 million in aggregate (except that
required to complete the project) unless its internal cash generation in
the previous twelve months is sufficient to meet 1.2 times the expected
maximum debt service requirements of the NSPT (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.03).
45.     The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be onlent to NSPT at
an interest rate of not less than 11.5% per annum with repayment over 25
years including a five-year grace period. In the event construction is
delayed beyond the planned four-year period, GOI would be obligated to
provide such additional funding as required by NSPT to cover cost overruns
and/or revenue shortfalls in the early project operational period (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The exchange rate and interest rate risks
would be borne by GOI.  The onlending rate of 11.5% per annum is expected
to remain substantially positive, in real terms, in all years under the
inflation assumptions noted above.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.     The Bank's International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
would be used for the major civil works financed by the proposed loan and
the supply and installation of equipment and plant--totalling some US$463
million or 76% of total project costs. NSPT would use GOI's Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank,
in the supply and installation of the Container Freight Station
(US$7 million), the residential colony (US$30 million) and the supply of
utilities and services (US$32 million), the major portion of the costs of
which will be local costs totalling about US$69 million.
47.     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of
the costs of directly imported plant and equipment or the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured goods; (b) 100% of the costs of technical assis-
tance training and engineering services; (c) 70% of the cost of imported
goods procured locally; and (d) 70% of the cost of the initial US$100
million of major civil works and 22% of the remaining civil works. Indian
contractors competing under ICB would be granted a 7.5% preference and
Indian manufacturers, similarly, a preference of 15% or the current rate
of import duty on imported goods, whichever is less. Civil works con-
tracts of more than US$5 million equivalent and Equipment and Supplies in
excess of US$500,000 equivalent, would be subject to prior review by the
Bank and such prior review would cover 80% of the value of such contracts.
*         All disbursements would be fully documented.
48. Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be retained and
would carry out annual audits of the project accounts and furnish the
audit reports to the Bank within nine months of the end of the financial
year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02). Retroactive financing in an
amount of US$1 million would be provided for the costs of engineering
services incurred since June 1, 1982--the date of NSPT's establishment and
assumption of costs (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1). The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1988 and the Loan would close on
June 30, 1989.



-16-
P'roiect Execution
49,     The NSPT would be responsible for implementing the proposed
project. The consultants who developed the project layout and cost
estimates, Howe (India) Private Ltd (HIPL) have been retained by the NSPT
to prepare the bid documents and assist in bid evaluation and project
supervision. Further specialized expertise may be required and under-
standings have been reached that the staff to be appointed to HIPL's
senior supervisory positioIns would have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank.
50.     Within NSPT, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been estab-
lished and staffed to coordinate and monitor project execution and to
supervise HIPL. Some short-term technical advisory services may be needed
by the PIU to examine alternative proposals from Contractors and Suppliers
of plant and equipment and cargo handling systems. Understandings were
reached that, to the extent that it is judged necessary, NSPT would retain
the necessary short-term technical advisory services. Given the number of
Government Ministries involved in this project's execution, GOI has con-
stituted a special committee comprising the Secretaries of the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Shipping and Transport (MOST), Ministry of Railways
and Ministry of Commerce and Planning. This Committee is empowered to
take administrative and policy decisions as required to resolve any inter-
agency problems.
51.     Adequate utility services including water supply, sanitation,
electric power and telecommunication facilities are essential to the
timely implementation of the project. Given the number of Government
departments involved, GOI w,ould agree to establish, by June 30, 1984, a
coordinating group consisting of representatives of NSPT and the concerned
sl:ate and central government agencies, including the Maharashtra State
Government, the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the
Maharashtra State Electricity Board, and the Post and Telegraphs
Department, (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
52.     It is generally recognized that the NSPT, in owning and operating
a new-style capital intensive facility with sophisticated machinery such
as is envisaged in this project, will require an organization structure
substantially different from that in operation at other MOST-supported
port facilities in India. Furthermore, systems and procedures would also
re!quire modification or redesign to match the NSPT's needs. NSPT would
agree to complete a comprehensive Organization, Management and Finance
(COMF) study by January 1, 1986 with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and implement the approved recommendations thereafter (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.07). Furthermore, the parallel development of tran-
sport linkages (road, rail and coastal shipping) and related facilities is
an important adjunct to the project and understandings were reached that
NSPT would carry out such a review during the project period. Assurances
were also provided that the NSPT has sufficient delegated authority to (a)
award contracts involving foreign exchange, (b) hire appropriately
qualified personnel and (c) provide its Officers with the necessary spend-
ing power to fulfill all NSPT's responsibilities.



-17-
53.     The success of the proposed port depends on efficient inland
transportation of containers. GOI has recognized the importance of estab-
lishing inland container depots (ICDs) linked to the ports by reliable
train services and, in order that the proposed project's full benefits be
realized, unit train services to the New Delhi ICD must be available when
the new port becomes operational. GOI provided assurances that unit
trains would be operational by December 31, 1984 on a regular basis
between Bombay and Delhi.
54.     The Container Freight Station (CFS) would be located outside the
port area and NSPT is undertaking a study to review, inter alia, the
possibility of leasing the operation of the CFS to selected
concessionaries, who would provide the necessary equipment.
55.     Acquisition of the necessary land for the port area and the CFS is
proceeding in accordance with a three-phase program agreed between the
Bank and NSPT. Phase I, acquisition of the initial 820 hectares for the
main port area, including the staging area, container yard and road and
rail accesses, was required as a condition of negotiations of the project
and has been completed. Phase II land acquisition, would involve some 420
hectares for the container freight station and would be acquired by June
30, 1984 and Phase III land acquisition, which would involve a further 412
hectares for the residential colony, would be acquired by June 30, 1985
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.10).
Project Benefits and Risks
56.     The project provides five types of quantifiable benefits--benefits
which accrue in varying degrees to ship owners, importers/exporters and to
port authorities and, ultimately, to India as savings resulting from the
more efficient movement of goods through the Bombay area are passed on to
the economy by the various parties. There are also non-quantifiable
benefits that, though very significant, are not included in the economic
evaluation. These include reduced traffic congestion and improved acces-
sibility to, and within, the city of Bombay, and improved "quality of
life" for the city residents as pollution is reduced. The quantifiable
benefits, and the contribution that each benefit stream makes to the
overall 20% economic rate of return (ERR), are as follows:
Contribution to
20% ERR
(a)  Reduced ship waiting time          --      35%
(b)  Reduced cargo handling costs    --         21%
(c) Savings resulting from use of
larger vessels                    --       40%
(d)  Reduced cargo delays               --       2%
(e)  Reduced cargo losses              --        2%
If only 75% of the benefits are achieved, the ERR would decrease to 15%.
If costs increase by 15% or 25% the ERR would fall to 18% and 16%,
respectively. If, in the worst case scenario, costs increase by 25% and
only 75% of the benefits are achieved, the ERR would fall to 12%. The
risk analysis undertaken suggests only a 4% probability that the ERR would
fall to 12%--the assumed cost of capital for India.



-I.8-
57.     The port tariffs used in the above ERR analysis for this new port
have! been conservatively assumed to be below the current value of rates
charged by the nearby BPT, after allowing for inflation during the inter-
veni.ng years before the Nhava Sheva Port commences operations. By 1988,
BPT is expectedlJ to be charging Rs 330 per ton for general cargo services
and Rs 195 per ton for bulk fertilizers. The assumed NSPT charges are
correspondingly Rs 300 per ton and Rs 162 per ton for these same
procucts.
58.     In addition, GOI/NSPT would agree to take all measures (including
adjustment of the structure o:r levels of tariffs) in each year commencing
1989/90 to produce (a) gross revenues sufficient to cover operating expen-
ses and net debt service requirements; (b) internal cash generation suffi-
cient to enable NSPT to cover as much future investment as possible under
competitive conditions, and (c) establish the structure of its port
tariffs in such a way as to ensure that activities shall be priced in
relation to their costs. Furthermore, general performance targets for
FY88 and FY89 have been set (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.04).
Although GOI has a firm policy not to revalue assets, it is estimated that
NSPT, in later years of the project period, would be achieving a rate of
return on notionally revalued assets in excess of 9% each year--a level
considLered satisfactory by the Bank. The project has a financial rate of
return of 12.1%, based on the expected cost and pricing structure computed
thrcugh the year 2013.
59.     To enable the Bank to adequately monitor progress of project
implementation and subsequent use of faciliLies, NSPT would agree to (a)
maintain separate, audited project accounts, (b) prepare a Project
Completion Report within six months of the closing date of the project and
(c) furnish quarterly reportis, commencing 3 months after project
completion, that include data on operational efficiency, personnel
productivity, cargo dwell time, vessel turnaround times and berth
occupancy rates in an agreed format (draft Project Agreement, Section
3.04Q).
60.     The project would not adversely affect the environment.
Construction of marine structures and dredging of access channels and
thei.r associated disposal of dredged spoil should not affect the natural
flows in the harbor. Appropriate facilities for collection and disposal
of shipbound and terminal sewiage, bilge water, and spilled bulk products
are to be provided under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.     The draft Loan Agreem,ent between India and the Bank, and the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and the Nhava Sheva Port Trust and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
1/ BPT's charges in effect from April 1, 1984 will be Rs 255 per ton
and Rs 150 per ton for container cargo services and bulk fertilizers,
respectively.



-19-
62.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section (iii) of
Annex 3. Execution of a Financing Arrangement between GOI, BPT and NSPT
would be made a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 draft Loan
Agreement).
63.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
February 17, 1984
.






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT   b           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCQIE
1960-       1970/   ESTIMATE/           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                3287.6       3287.6       3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                         1760.7       1780.5       1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        100.0        260.0               276.7                      1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        114.0        165.0        210.0               398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)-         18.0         19.8         23.7                21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         132.3       166.6        205.3                161.7                      260.7
PER SQ. KIM. AGRI. LAND             247.0       307.5        372.7                363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            40.9         42.7        39.7                 36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                            54.5         54.2        57.2                 59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.6          3.1          3.0                 4.2                         3.3
POPl.LATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.8          2.3          2.1                 1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                 2.5          3.3          3.7                 4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           43.7        40.0         35.4                 29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           21.8         16.7        13.3                 10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9          2 . 7        2.4                 2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            64.0      3 782.0      682 6.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         12.0        23.0                 48.1                       46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOO  PROD. FER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          98.0        102.0       107.0                111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0         90.0        87.0                 98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.0         50.0        47.0                 56.7                       57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.0         15.0        13.0/c               13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2         20.7        17.0                 12.2                         7.6
REAL TR
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.2         48.1         52.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         165.0       139.0        121.2                 96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..         17.0        33.0/d               32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                  ..         60.0        83.o7-               70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                  *           6.0        2o.07o               22.2                        26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.0        20.0/e               18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                  . .        85.0        87.0/e               72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                  *           1.0          2.07;               4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4850.0      4890.0       3640.0/f             3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             10980.0/g    8300.0       5380.07f             4797.9                     2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2180.0       1650.0      1310.0/d             1100.6                     1047.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..       370.07;              298.4                      651.1
RURAL                                  * -          * -    10410.07d             5941.6                     2591 .9
AOMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..           ..                  ..                        27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          5.6          5.2/e
URBAN                                 5.2          5.6          4.87*-
RLRAL                                 5.2          5.6          5. 37..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.8           . .
URBAN                                 2.6          2.8
RURAL                                 2.6          2.8           .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..          ..
----------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCC2E
1960/-       1970/   ESTIMATE/b          ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
ED2CATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      61.0         73.0         76.0/f              96.1                        101.2
MALE                      80.0         90.0         90.07?             107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                    40.0         56.0         61.077              82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     20.0         26.0          28.0/f              30.2                         44.9
MALE                      30.0         36.0         37.07?              37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                    10.0         15.0         18.07?              22.2                         44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              2.8          1.0          0.7/e                2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               46.0        41.0          43.0/f              34.4                        32.7
SECONOARY                            16.0          21.0           ..                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 27.8         33.4         36.0                 53.5                        72.9
Co015lNPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6          1.1          1.3/f               1.6                          9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9         21.5         44.4                96.8                        113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          0.0          1.7                 9.9                         50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DATLY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6         16.2         19.7                16.4                         54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2          4.1          3.7/e               3.6                          3.4
LA3OR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     30.7         32.5          31.8                33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 74.0         74.0         69.3                69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0          13.2                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8         40.0         39.3                42.5                         38.6
MALE                                  57.0         52.4         51.9                54.4                         50.7
FEMALE                                27.3        26.9          25.9                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.1          1.1                 1.0                          1.1
INtOKE DISTRIBUT ION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUISEROLDS             26.7         26.3/h       22.2/e              16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7        48.97h       49.47;i              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          6.7Th        7.07o               6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 405 OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6         17.27W       16.27;i             17.3                         15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ,.       132.0                133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..       114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                      178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                      164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                   .      .      .        40.3                 43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         50.7                51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
. /a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of dat.a and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1993



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS O? SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes   Al though the data ar  dren fr- oucs.generaly judged Ihe cm   ateihtsnboel and ref lbalte  in, ahotlo eo ha noted tro  they may not be  fneretsnl by
-omarble becus o.        he  eso   tnadcd de fnisiun.  and concpts used by dffeen  cone e  In co,leotISg  he data.  The dataore  noehees    seu  so
de-icabe order  of esgotuIde  . tdo_r  "ratd, and oha-anente  -ernab  .aJor diff-e-enabten   nere
T      ..ef ..t.rop.a Il   hees   gone  group of the eabjeob  -nunly and (2) u  -c-rY  grop airh s-rh.t hbghrra--rgrooe  tt-                         t Ilhe coun.iy grop of  hbe
eubjeo  county leocor fo   nigh   oose'Oilrpcoe  grupoer-   Midl .o-c  rornh udrbca an  OddieSa'fcor    .e..e  o  o..g.....-.itr
affinities).  Inbte refarenra, gop data tthe averges ar  poptIlitbu   argtdaihefobaefrec                               d Scto  atI     ho   nyar   aoit   rtecutisi
e       Irbedc   eatSgsergso  one bocao   oaohr    hm   crgsaeol   cflI   oprn   he oaloe of one bodroetor an a  t_e  nn   h   one   n
osto Ithosseo   s~.ke. I                                                                  Poylat ion Pt C  byu bOar - Ppulation d foded  byfrusherof oruotboih
toa d-Tnl.  sotf.    rm,    ~ recgln   trs  end          - inlad .waera   _9h         ~            tscae-ntbl iod    Ifo  a e.diclrbo  i            0       -nirain   local
urbe, ad rral .dicdadby  hei  rdserodtd  nubby       foPitlbd
caclndb  aecneabcnto    iWrdSn  tala  197-O    basic)                                             chisaincet-o    .  nosbnal   ar-sh bbbenapccenl.sa  e
190 917.8n  iP1d-ere.ya P,                                                                           lemon one . pyiciaersn.- tPtahl-atse dts       nin    rnIpli   unia
1970 ..d                                                                                                                     id~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rr   rennboldd.rrl  optas   oeoeb, Inciod    Iflb 
A0007iC-1lf-11-h5, P .. COITf - Artualapparent  o..m.tbon o                   cluscl                    a   Icd centr  not pennn  ystfe    yaphsca   hnsb                         eia
friac -epg      -otso kinie    etoen,Id          tanurh-   gasd andl hydlo-, 1o  etuastn,nre  cdie6t.  cIoofrinptetaccndn                                                            n
iota                                                                                             fro   Ssl taIeddaimd h  thenhrr ofbeds
Iphac  otolanon I cccent  f rona) -  uIcdfura  to 9tna    pupuatbo;                          -l9                                       fl
cifeem    def98tnn   ofd hnaea.alfec    oprbbiyo   an .h
ENRGuCNgcMPTINci; pE060.T -970Acd  11   .a.. ..eod  hIocIhwcrdbdcaRa...e h.pecca-                                                                        cd-ticuca.nd
I                  kiaIcoeicl,adfmlelire enI tnf   tblsi5a -P.                         delipg,  omec iufip   n.alcn0rhnch lode ncc-pasteteruir                        n
ysar.  Te paacerce  or  eyti li  car  alo haeeecer  errs..n.c.piedparn.                      
196    in0   eoie  nfetlIyacod9o70                 ors  Io   anddain9builyd-csit  Elctecbd   I                                  f -ro Mt of dello)-tcIra,od rural
plnigpefotne.fcocoo    atacrsge   oeo   tea   r                                           onetbnl-nd          og    u    tctb  t   c  iigSctesa  pretg
roshoatorsof  ortlin   an   fetlt   trends fcc p96ojo970ine po 9p81t                     ofttl   ra,ndr                l dori cdsrpetto
dncfl-tnefnct -erlcon   louRlof              1 ,b.P,.               p cotnoopPduebrrtlorc            rdarsco idtrledaylean-beaaIFae-Cns bu.ar dfaI
year stttocarycocuimion is  reched- 7cr  earorm  sta fon     y                                                                             _ynors   uiaao   oo.c to   h  ofIca  school age.
pnnlniosroilbreced                                                    hcndoychid           rou.s,cndmlb-Cerneaabneaeoda
Popuutia  agetnru ruerorn)-Cldnt-iyan, _oi-ne-ogPe,Il                                              eldtrncl   o ouI            cl  or   -ho   r cae  tc   ocrae   acro-b
pepfai lei161  1970  onOOlily -data                                                         ruiltret   ani P. -        btc0dicdrpo ltdeicoledI
focubahlon troato oct)poocmntl-ronai-agnuigoc  dsoat           t ffnnc lncl                prnscyodsccndaybrn Ifccidbpansaoiaceo    lrer
porp P'.ar    inc.. 15-bC   -96-70   n  h97-f.                                                cospodict ode
coculcnionouarhcott(oaconnydorba - enuogrnbotef_                uha                           iullreaccaolcpcnt- inrurdlialtondoaiea
yaar, pplb,c;  90  17,anb9h aa.ChlnTQ
fetlla   aom-     rali   in-er  nrge   tIg nhb.                      91,adbaacstngnco    uli   r  onn_do   opltic;ecldrn
;     yeei.                                                                                    Oucanaodotctbhcr20   iucnucnhtletanddd. IeonI'l h.r..gittoanbnofesdlo
progran-.    --b toc-lueps, Ida thous'd   yopdiu-lut lcg) hevrc pclu... fo  hondos Io
P.l.iIl_in r          hunraar prap                                                      ocycc           'Po.lt," Icohodld,uoIco-hcnjtc Pu
rod coci. cl-t 710                                                                                       lo-Id _uc IiTiclo  nocu    rorftto.cdlcdauync;n
loe   fPn  ycmninCP   at   1h-i-Ol-dno  pen  oc---n If                                                    V-li- ,ncc,Ibdcscn1   coolcr,n                        pa. 10rcue
iedafsll      eadaparaaa.Cnsdstsonr   caaygn"l..                                                   cnrywoacttinc d-ay  aY,Oc-  mecc'                            hoPb.n
boatrd o  soarloIchoebiudosacuret   a..                                               oe     I   orc   h   er   nlulgoatittdpl_y-I ..i.....a.
haond   161 no 9na 0una  1c9r8g prduc-   pcie  aigor  19ib- 07, ad  90
for cyire-   ol o.     oloriI eer...ont~-IP~5-   ofld crcr( on0-   enue1in                           nf1n    oc  crocus upon)-  to--da...pec    epcs,inldso   rs
day.  inbtabto  uppliescampoYe-  domestic -ePr-is -g- Ifspb ite  yets                             .. p ..ot .t.o al  ct . f meinYtcrns  o re    r   o
Orfurnea  sc  ecI-ac   yPchae   nppnu ta   eisfrncs                                        Oarhcul-re Ipeccno I- Caicdfrc                  -Tn-fesiod    fn -   Iry  ts1t fo in
en bothood  enet;  950-65, I10-70 modlod  data1                                                 ".,  ..acolacrbct    y sae-r an  ~degsa  pmbcy tg   of t-h-ol  labr hoe; lYc
tanubreseots fo  allc 7cro   sotallso   hrOl   rod   o  eoeotrlprue   c   optda  tn_al_, sole, ird  foma                                                      d ab d force a
poles pontoOn, ofonc   C umsol   eaia   rti.Tee1960, 1970,                                                         at   S1daodtre1cohne  o   LC    ccbdpn-crae
Thpco-        ro  Sue; SP -b,d ih  co::.dt.Cooi  hceac   ol    hnui   coaloce    fadhh and  -oco 
Per cmybrs ornorOn eupply finn otmal and pmIsm  - Pro tam   nucyly1u "`fond: thed co            lap  ore
dorboed  frm  arloahsand pulse  to ironsper dap;   i1-Oh, 190 and.101
dmts.                                                                                     InClot ofoCii  pO-lIe       iltILOn
V                        otb~~~~~~~~~~~~.idlooma-iCf OtorcOa-tri   ari rnbswo-wenuu    Pnte   pohuadnfeo_otol  ofI coihtc                                dp-T    . icoebc   nahckelmoIud....c..a
idtnp1-   er,tchiro   nhcae  ru;fomn    malpnlooen cces   0pooo  pncs   lprcn    n   ncen4  cpeno
ouonnrlor iwoc icciyd  Pros life  nahlc   1960, 1070 acd...9 dec. .....                              Pe rtalda."'                  _JI,
atex2 blrnt;  SbO- 190  r  lftdra                                                                     tnlih  iorpotdmIt-oocr-ha   un-n
ifect Onricropucodlrccnh busucd)-Cd... deaths  ifl rfoEtsCinemac hstlIune                                            -nd-lot pyonoc py-o Pesn    tellctIomCcacfoa   -    bphcudcuul
pep  f  g  per thouandfin   birhs;- ff60, 197  end19J1 daca             gAh                             -Iu I o doarcy  hc e yburl 1,in dihoInc   entOo  sthsoto
nubon:d      cl   r-tob   uran   cod   ura              961no 6a5calea7e0sooun                      afordble
detaspy7tcldetcuOoRtcooiasFORcCsihrtsiaEdcalePapy uc OLoblnnoail-rtuauC -
eemoouyoIs   as pIclal           so  rorceoic   Pua              rcs   Icon                         po-noa I.ocoe ofl the Ccun          i. ubnOolI   obodfo   h   oa
opsncrcphbctontb   n  iononaloatd  o  nrmthu00  sren                       eelobO   duanet  o  Sstr  os   f  ccnglcoenr_s
the day On fehobng, th   -sely' 5, sanecorod.:,Iee                                                     p be'11119              n
racot-tuchopnfcoole)tocrl,orban    -cdcuo'.loccuOhpocret
eap incladaiS a ocltec for and dipanol, sothor with outeceatonnt  Y_ihl                                                   tocroncog.   I-Ll..   rod- hu9u0 197to-   19`stn
hoarcnto. lonecneb          hw..-h..aatr odthacee  ofb                                                                        Poomcwlytudpn)tloiearnn
po dss  c   lelbiaccotslofnnap .i                                                                                                                 noy.IPI   .l  ld-     p--   l-  .   IJi   1900. 



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82-                                                         ANNUAL RATE CF GROrTH (%, constant prices) -
US$ Bln .     X                  1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices           165.38    100.0                          3.7              3.6              3.6               2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving           37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08      -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force i/           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bin.            X             Mil.        Z                  US$      X of National Average
Agriculture                     39.8               39.6           180.6      70.7                220            56
Industry                        25.2               25.1            32.2      12.6                783           199
Services                        35.5               35.3            42.6      16.7               833            211
Total/Average                  100.5              100.0           255.4    100.0                 394           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government            e/                          Central Government
Rs.Bln.         %  of  GDP                                    Rs. Bln.        X  of  GDP
1981/82      1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                       1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                    285.77        19.4         19.1                               149.28      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures                280.34        19.0         18.2                               155.0'      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               5.43         0.4          0.9                                -5.75      -0.4       -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/             116.91         7.9          7.8                                83.66       5.7        5.5
External Assistarnce (net) d/        16.45         1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982               February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5    615.5                           711.7
Bank Credit to Gcvernment(net)    54.6         69.2     77.6      76.4      94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4    292.2                          53-
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2         156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4    422.2                           487.7
(percenitage or Index Numbers)                            AprLl-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Mcney
as X of GDP                      27.4       30.3      34.6      36.5      41.2     44.1      43.3      42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 1OC)                 100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3                281.7                 287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       -1.1      2.1       5.2       -        17.1      18.2      9.3             10.0               3  2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0           6.3     11.1      16.3      16.0      25.6      29.6     19.1            22.7 g/           t   21.0
Bank Credit to Cocmercial Sector  20.5          22.7     20.7      12.6      20.3      21.5      17.0     18.7            20.9 yl                15.5 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market trices, using Wiorld Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessariLy consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
fl  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/  Percentage change from  end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/  Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annextre Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                     US$ Mln.    %
Exports of Goods j/              7,948    8,504    8,511    8,800                 Engineering Goods              901       11
Imports of Goods a1            -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                 Tea                            457        6
Trade Balance                   -3,435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                 Gems                           759       10
NFS (net)                         1,042    1,365    1,120    1,088                Clothing                       556        7
Leather & Leather Products    470         6
Resource Balance                -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                 Jute Manufactures              279        4
Iron Ore                       352       4
Interest Income (net) k/           287       600      212      -128               Cotton Textiles                319        4
Net Transfers  1/                 1,852    2,771    1,577    1,668                Sugar                           104       1
Others                       3,789       47
Balance on Current Account         -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                      Total                        7,986      100
Gross Disbursements              1,218    1,629    1,821    1,933                 EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                     1,894    2,338    2,475    2,569
US$ billion
Transactions with IMF              -       1,035      690    1,980                Outstanding and Disbursed                18.3
All Other Items  o/               -740      -130   -1,075      -358               Undisbursed                               8.5
Outstanding, including                  26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)          -224       345    2,397      -182                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204    6,859    4,462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/       7,204    6,532    3,498    1,703                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 i/  o/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) g/           4,046    6,657    5,570    4,686                                                       US$ million
IBRD         IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed          1,357         6,688
Undisbursed                        1,896        4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                      3,253       10,958
RATE OF EXCNANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 = Rs 7.50                      Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 = US$0.13333                                               Rs 1.00 = US$0.0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:        US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Es 1.00 = US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                 :      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981        :      US$1.00   E Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 ' US$O.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982        :      US$1.00   E Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = US$0. 104
j/ Estimated.
k/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
1MF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
o/ Includes commercial borrowing.
p/ Excluding gold.
a/ Net of crude petroleum exports.



1



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
t No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                               1,688.0          -              -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                  -       4,759.0             -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -          30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -          83.0            6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -           27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -           16.4          -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmnission IV                -          150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0         -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0         -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0         -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -          150.0           7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5         -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Stcrage              -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -           87.0           6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -              2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Hlorticulture           -           14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -           85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -          30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -           46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigaition II                -          175.0        121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -           22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0        213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0        170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Developmient                  30.0         -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0            -             7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0         29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0        128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0        281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0         20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0         35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -         125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0        367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0        199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -            61.58
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry            -           29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0         21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                             190.0          -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada IrrigatiLon                  20.3          -            20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0         45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -         127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5         -           158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         197.01
2241-lN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       222.3          -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -         150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II                         101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power            -         170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*       -          147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -          32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*         250.7          -           250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management        46.2         -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                 24.1         -            24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                 -          105.0         105.00
Total                                    5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid               1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                    3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed ia terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree ChenLicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjunla Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8        -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -      15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -        8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                           53.0       3.4      56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -      30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
UndisbuLrsed                  82.9         -       82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NEAVA SHEVA PORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About four years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Shipping and Transport (MOST) assisted by
the Nhava Sheva Port Trust (NSPT).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and
date of first mission to consider the project
June 1979
July 1982
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
January 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1984.
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) Execution of a Financing Arrangement between GOI, BPT
and NSPT is a condition of Loan effectiveness
(para 44).
(b)  NSPT would require Bank's concurrence to any long-
term borrowing over specified limits unless its
internal cash generation in a previous 12 month
period is sufficient to cover at least 1.2 times the
expected debt service requirements (para 44).



(NE  !I N D I A
0i s t t) v>                                                     C    )r-   rpsdDr
7:  i \., ioD_l 0;; W  ;    Jl  \                                  RT                          8                    SliPfI- (CFSI
>7 -; -fi       ~9       %     |                                    5n                                                  Poopoose Boot  okpevelopmt Am,,
.w-       - PrP-sedBoo
Poopo-d Rojr_d
Nil                                                                            orS0  P'I Tno,poI    -o oo C,,,-,
57S                                                                                                       S   S     h X ,,,, , t/-  P  oNtoo -
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... B-; S[, C, /,C,\i                                                   o
?   t   f  '   v #   f   b_}    ;  A   t     <               I _,               W       _   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B- .,R.,.
Vi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
if }i iBOMBAY:itS.J p .9 4 \t \ l,
ISLAND! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A~&I
CIT
ISLAN1 5                                       =N-IA
NHAVA SHEVA~~~HVASHV   PRTPOJC
-PORB                                                                    tropoli tan Region
l ; t  ff  3   f:,<  j t-- 19HAQ4SF1EYAWN-- -. /                        /   /             2            j~~~~~~~~~~~~
0S  :S    6';5a!    S t3t2T   1,°yi<                           , Zl 
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~HV  SHV  POR PROJE;CITZ  
=ymdMvr i # i; ,7 / // h _ ~~~~~~~~Bomnbay Metropolitazn Region 



