OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2387 IN
DOCUNIENTS
Loan Agreement
(Nhava Sheva Port Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2387 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             2- 5    , 1984, between India,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL   BANK    FOR   RECONSTRUCTION   AND   DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by Nhava Sheva Port
Trust with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Nhava Sheva Port
Trust the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Nhava Sheva
Port Trust;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "NSPT" means Nhava Sheva Port Trust, established under
the Major Ports Trust Act, 1963 of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b) ' "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and NSPT of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(c) "BPT" means the Bombay Port Trust, an autonomous trust
established under the Major Ports Trust Act, 1963 of the Bor-
rower; and
(d) "Financing Arrangement" means the arrangement made by
the Borrower to finance the Project pursuant to Sections 3.01 and
3.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Banik shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to six hundred twenty-three thousand four hundred
forty-two dollars ($623,442).


﻿-3-
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"  means:   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.


﻿Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause NSPT to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NSPT
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NSPT to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
NSPT bearing terms and conditions which shall include interest at
an effective rate of not less than 11-1/2% per annum on the prin-
cipal amount so relent and withdrawn by NSPT (such amount with-
drawn shall be determined in Rupees as of the time of withdrawal
from the Loan Account) and outstanding from time to time and re-
payment over a period of twenty-five years, including therein a
period of grace on payment of interest and repayment of principal
of five years (interest shall accrue during the grace period).
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower speci-
fically undertakes to: (a) cause BPT to lend to NSPT an amount of
Rs two billion, bearing terms and conditions which shall include
interest at an effective rate of not more than 10% per annum on
the principal amount withdrawn by NSPT outstanding from time to
time and repayment over a period of fifteen years, including
therein a period of grace on payment of interest and repayment of
principal of not less than five years (interest shall accrue
during the grace period); and (b) provide such other loans as re-
quired by NSPT for timely completion of the Project, bearing
terms and conditions which shall include interest at an effective


﻿-5-
rate of 10-f% per annum on the principal amount withdrawn by NSPT
outstanding from time to time and repayment over a period of
twenty-five years, including therein a period of grace on payment
of interest and repayment of principal of ten years (interest
shall accrue during the grace period). It is agreed that the
repayment obligation of NSPT for the loan provided under Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement shall have priority over that for the
loan provided under paragraph (b) of this Section, in servicing
of debt by NSPT.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.


﻿- 6 -
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NSPT to prepare, by
September 30, 1986, a plan for the performance of services with
reference to the container freight station to be provided under
Part A.3 of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall from time to time review
the tariff of NSPT in order to enable NSPT to meet the require-
ments stipulated in Section 4.04 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. In order to ensure adequate and timely supply
of water, power and other services required for the Project,
the Borrower shall establish, by June 30, 1984, and thereafter
maintain, a coordinating group consisting of representatives of
appropriate agencies and authorities.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) NSPT shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that NSPT will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower, NSPT or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or liqui-
dation of NSPT.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) an event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and NSPT; and
(b) an event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
the Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Financing Arrangement shall have become effec-
tive.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by NSPT, and is legally binding upon
NSPT in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date    p- 2-  0V?  , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General. Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          cJV     Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil and allied
works:
(a)      70,000,000         70%
(b)      54,000,000         22%
(2) Equipment,              100,000,000        100% of foreign
materials                                 expenditures;
and spares                                 100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory); and
70% of other
items procured
locally
(3) Technical                16,000,000        100%
assistance,
engineering
services and
training
(4) Fee                        623,442         Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               9,376,558
TOTAL             250,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may
be made on account of payments made with respect to Category (3)
before that date but after June 1, 1982; and
(b) under Category (1) (b), until the amount allocated to
Category (1) (a) shall have been fully disbursed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-


﻿- 11 -
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is the construction of modern
port facilities at Nhava Sheva near Bombay to accommodate the
growth in maritime traffic in the area.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Construction of Container Handling Facilities
1.   Construction of 680 m of offshore wharf with four
access bridges.
2.   Construction of container yard behind the berths.
3.   Construction of container freight station.
4.   Construction of storage and office buildings.
5.   Provision of equipment.
Part B:   Construction of Bulk Cargo Facilities
1.   Construction of 500 m. of offshore wharf with one
access bridge.
2.   Construction of a 212 m. of wharf to serve as. port
craft berth and service berth.
3.   Construction of storage buildings for bulk and bagged
cargo.
4.   Provision of electrical distribution system.
5.   Provision of equipment.
Part C:   Construction of Ancillary Facilities
1.   Land  and   land  development   including  reclamation,
leveling and fencing.
2.   Dredging.


﻿- 13 -
3.   Construction of a landing jetty.
4.   Provision of infrastructure facilities and services
such as provisions of water supply, power supply,
sewerage, bunkering, firefighting, port area lighting
and environmental protection.
5.   Construction of roads and railway facilities.
6.   Construction of residential township.
7.   Construction of administrative and operational build-
ings.
8.   Communication system for operations and maintenance.
Part D:   Provision of port craft and navigational aids.
Part E:   Provision of Technical Assistance for:
(i) a comprehensive staff training program;
(ii) an Organization, Management and Finance Study;
(iii) a Container Operations Manual; and
(iv) other advisory services.
Part F:   Provision of engineering services for detailed engi-
neering and supervision of contracts.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1989
through   July 1, 2003                         8,335,000
On   January 1, 2004                                8,285,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  2i      day of #' A 0V,7198  .
FOR SECRETARY


