Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 17199 DO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FORA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH
SERVICES PROJECT
December 15, 1997
Caribbean Country Department
Human Development Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1997)
Currency Unit = Dominican Peso
US$1.00 = RD$ 14 Dominican Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CMIJ                 Country Management Unit
DALY                 Disability Adjusted Life Years
ECHSR                Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform
ENDESA               Demographic and Health Survey
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GNP                  Gross National Product
HINP                 Health, Nutrition and Population
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
1DB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IDSS                 Dominican Social Security Institute
IMCI                 Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding (Licitaci6n Publica Nacional)
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NBF                  Not Bank Financed
OECD                 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAHO                 Pan American Health Organization
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
PEU                  Provincial Implementation Unit
PNMRE                State Modernization and Reforrn Program
SESPAS               State Health Secretariat
STP                  Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Unit Director       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Country Sector Leader      Jamil Salmi
Task Manager                Patricio Marquez



Dominican Republic
Provincial Health Services Project
Table of Contents
Project Financing Data ........................................................................1
Block 1: Project Description ........................................................................2
1. Project Development Objectives ........................................................................2
2. Project Components ........................................................................3
3. Benefits and Target Population ........................................................................3
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ..................................                                  ,           .3
Block 2: Project Rationale ........................................................................6
5. CAS Objectives Supported by the Project .........................................................................6
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ........................................................................6
7. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ..........................................8
8. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ......................................................8
9. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies .................                                                        9
10. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design ............................................................9
11. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ...........................................................                                        10
12. Value Added of Bank Support .......................................................................                                                 10
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments .......................................................................                                                     11
13. Economic Assessment ........................................................................                                                        11
14. Financial Assessment ........................................................................                                                       11
15. Technical Assessment .......................................................................                                                        11
16. Institutional Assessment .......................................................................                                                    12
17. Social Assessment .......................................................................                                                           12
18. Environmental Assessment ........................................................................                                                   12
19. Participatory Approach .......................................................................                                                      13
20. Sustainabity .......................................................................                                                                 13
21. Critical Risks .......................................................................                                                               13
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .......................................................................                                              13
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions .......................................................................                                                            14
23. Effectiveness Conditions .......................................................................                                                     14
24. Other .......................................................................                                                                        14
Block 5: Compliance wh Bank Policies ........................................................................                                                    14
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary ........................................................................                                                         15
Annex 2a: Detailed Project Description .......................................................................                                                   18
Annex 2b: Subproject Cycle and Eligibility Criteria .......................................................................                                     25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .......................................................................                                                        29
Annex 4: Summary of Cost Benefit and Cost Effectiveness Analyses ....................................................                                            30
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements (Tables A through D) ......................................    37
Annex  7:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .......................................................................                                       44
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .......................................................................                                                  45
Annex 9: Dominican Republic: Status of Bank Lending Operations in Dominican Republic                                                                             47
Annex  10: Dominican Republic: Country  at a Glance ..................................................................                                           49






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Caribbean Country Department (LCC3C)
Human Development Department (LCSHD)
Project Appraisal Document
Dominican Republic
Provincial Health Services Project
Date: 12/15/97                                                                         []  Draft          [x]  Final
Task Manager Patricio Marquez                                   Country Manager: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Project ID: DO-PE-7015      Sector: Health                                  POC: PA
Lending Instrument: Investment Loan                             PTI:          [x]  Yes              [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                          [x I  Loan         [   Credit      [   Guarantee        []  Other [Specify]
For Loans/CreditstOther:
Amount: US$30 million dollars
Proposed Terms:               [] To be defined    []   Multicurrency          [x]  Single currency
Grace period (years):  4                [xl   Standard Variable     []   Fixed               [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:  17
Commitment fee:  0.75%
Service charge:
Financing plan (US$m):  [] To be defined
Source                                         Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                                     12.0                                   12.0
IBRD                                                                            9.7                20.3               30.0
Other (specify)
Other (specify)
Other(specify)
Total         21.7                 20.3             42.0
Borrower: Dominican Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (STP)/State Secretariat of Health (SESPAS)IExecutive Commission for Health
Sector Reform (CERSS)
Estimated Bank disbursements (World Bank FY/US$m):     1998   1999  2000  2001  2002   2003  2004
Annual:                                                  .77    .77    3.0   5.3    8.4    8.5    3.2
Cumulative:                                             .77    1.54    4.5    9.8   18.2  26.7   30.0
Note: Figures may not add to totals because of rounding.
Expected Effectiveness Date: November 30, 1998                                              Closing Date: June 30, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 2
Country: Dominican Republic                                                      Provincial Health Services Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The proposed project, in parallel with a IDB-supported project, would help operationalize the Government's medium-
and long term Health Sector Reform Program. The overall objective of the proposed Provincial Health Services
Project is to improve the health status of the population, particularly among poor pregnant and lactating women and
children under 5 years of age, in selected peri-urban and rural areas. To this end, the project would: (i) assist in the
expansion of health care coverage to reach the poorest population groups, focusing on mother and child health care,
by developing new health care organization, financial, and managerial models at the provincial level; (ii) assist in
improving the quality of health care services already provided to the poor; (iii) assist in strengthening policy-making
and management capacity of provincial health units under SESPAS, that would work in coordination with Provincial
Development Councils, as well as of participating health facilities; and (iv) assist in fostering community
participation in the health system. The project represents the first stage in the World Bank's planned assistance to the
health sector in the Dominican Republic. Policy and institutional reforms to improve health status of the population
at the provincial level are the centerpiece of the proposed project. It would also facilitate the actual decentralization
of decisions and management of resources by delegating to the provincial units and staff in the participating facilities
in the project area the analysis of needs, as well as the programming and utilization of financing for improving health
care organization and delivery.
2. Project components:
Component                               Category   Indicative Costs  % of Total
__ USm         _
Provincial Subprojects: Would improve the quality and coverage   Physical,        33.5            80
of health care services in project areas, with special emphasis on    Policy,
targeting  low-income and underserved population  groups in  Institutional
provinces located initially in Regions 0, 3, 4 and 7, by  - Building
transforming current health care delivery systems from isolated
providers into provincial integrated delivery systems (i.e., closely-
related public/private individual and institutional providers that can
provide a full range of health care services to a defined population).
The subprojects would be sponsored by Provincial Development
Councils.  Subprojects would include: (i) essential health care
interventions, centered around maternal and child care activities, to
reinforce the capacity of health programs at the provincial level to
provide appropriate and timely care, particularly for low-income
mothers and children, on an ambulatory and in-patient basis (e.g.,
maternity wards and neonatal units of local hospitals); (ii) develop
new health care organization, financing and managerial models to
create provincial integrative delivery systems; (iii) institutional
strengthening to reorganize and enhance the capacity of provincial
health offices of SESPAS, as well as health facilities, to plan,
program, implement and monitor health programs, including the
design and implantation of information systems that link providers
in order to facilitate continuous improvement in service delivery
and health outcomes of the population; (iv) training and continuing
education of health personnel to raise clinical and managerial
capacity at provincial level, so as to assist in the improvement of
quality of health care and the decentralization of health care
organization and financing; and (vi) monitoring, impact evaluation
and dissemination of local level experiences. Subprojects would
finance rehabilitation of infrastructure, equipment, training,
technical assistance, and incremental recurrent costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 3
Country: Dominican Republic                                                Provincial Health Services Project
Policy Development and Studies: Related to and complementing    Policy,      2.7           6.4
the above component, and in coordination with the IDB-financed  Institutional-
project, support would be provided for undertaking additional  Building
policy/institutional reform studies, including diagnostic and
implementation design stages, to further decentralize health care
management and delivery. Approximately eight studies would be
financed by the project.  Specific research topics would be
established by mutual agreement between the PCU and the World
Bank. Additionally, technical assistance would be provided to
integrate the Plaza de la Salud into the provincial networks as a
referral center and to set a precedent for an autonomous and
financial independent medical complex.
Project Administration:   Management of overall project    Project           2.2           5.2
implementation by national, provincial, and area units.   Management
Physical Contingencies                                                        1.2          2.8
Price Contingencies                                                          2.4           5.7
(Figures may not add upto totals because of rounding)    Total          42.0          100
3. Benefits and target population:
. The project would help alleviate poverty in the medium term and increase human capital among the poor (particularly
women and children), thus improving the country's human capital stock and strengthening the bases for economic and
social development. These benefits would result from improved health status of the population in the participating
provinces through the reduction of the disease burden, particularly among low income peri-urban and rural families
that currently lack or have limited access to health services. It is expected that project interventions would improve
infant and child survival and maternal health, and reduce the prevalence and severity of the most common diseases. It
would contribute to improved income distribution by targeting basic health services to the poor. Specifically, at the
policy and service delivery levels, the project would support the design, pilot testing and adoption of new health care
organization, financing and service delivery arrangements and instruments, for providing a package of integrative
health services and for decentralizing health care administration. In addition, the project would improve efficiency
and effectiveness of public resource use by strengthening the capacity and improve the quality of decision-making,
resource allocation, management and evaluation within SESPAS' provincial and area levels, and foster public and
private, as well as community participation, in the organization, financing and delivery of health services.
. The potential total beneficiary population in areas covered initially by the project is estimated at about 3.8 million or
about 48% of the total population in the country. The initial project areas are: Regions 0 (Health Areas in the Santo
Domingo National District), 3 (Duarte, Maria Trinidad Sanchez, Salcedo, Samana and Sanchez Ramirez Provinces), 4
(Barahona, Independencia, Bahoruco and Pedemales Provinces) and 7 (Valverde Mao, Monte Cristi, Santiago
Rodriguez and Dajabon Provinces). The project would be implemented in provinces and areas with the highest
concentration of poor with eligible subprojects (about 30% of the total beneficiary population in the four regions of
the project are below the poverty line). In order to introduce flexibility in implementation, the PCU in agreement with
the World Bank would contemplate the option of including other eligible provinces located in regions not covered
initially by the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: S years
Executing agencies
The project will be executed by the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and SESPAS through the Executive
Commission for Health Sector Reform's Project Coordinating Unit (Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos-PCU). The



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 4
Country: Dominican Republic                                                  Provincial Health Services Project
Executive Commission for Health Sector Reforrn was established by Presidential Decree No. 308-97 of July 10, 1997
as a body responsible for integrating government policy-making efforts within a state modernization and reform
framework, providing political support for undertaking substantive change within the health sector, leading the reform
effort, coordinating external assistance, and orienting executing units. The members of the Commission are the
leading sectoral institutions as well as the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency. The PCU would be assisted by
Provincial
Implementation Units (Unidad de Ejecuci6n Provincial-PEU), to be located within the Provincial Health Offices of
SESPAS. The UCP would be headed by the Executive Coordinator of the Executive Commission for Health Sector
Reform. The UCP's main functions are: (i) lead, coordinate and monitor project implementation; (ii) coordinate
technical assistance for designing organizational, financing and service delivery arrangements and instruments to be
utilized in the networks; and (iii) coordinate technical assistance for the development of sectoral policies to be
implemented at the provincial level as part of the project. The Commission's PCU would also be organized to
manage the parallel implementation of the IDB-supported project.  Technical teams, headed by Technical
Coordinators, would be responsible for coordinating and supervising specific technical activities of the project as set
forth in the Operations Manual for the project. The PCU would also include a Financial Administrative Unit, headed
by a Financial and Administrative Director and staffed with professional and support personnel as needed, responsible
for providing administrative and financial support for all project activities, including the maintenance of accounting
records, processing disbursements, maintaining administrative records, contracts, and the carrying out of related
activities. The Unit would review all contracts, make payments for activities related to the project. The PCU would
contract a procurement agent for goods and services, and coordinate and monitor project implementation in
consultation with  SESPAS.  During project preparation, PCU staff developed expertise in technical and
administrative and financial aspects of investment projects supported by the World Bank and IDB. Also, UNDP
served as the procurement agent for the PCU.
Qperations Manual
. It will be a condition of effectiveness of the project that the PCU shall have drawn up an Operations Manual
satisfactory to the World Bank, and be adopted by the Government. It would include the conditions for project
implementation, including guidelines for preparing and implementing provincial subprojects, as well as technical
norms and administrative, budgetary, disbursements and procurement procedures to be followed during project
implementation, which would be reviewed and found satisfactory by the World Bank.
Project Implementation Aegremnts
. For the preparation and implementation of provincial subprojects, Participatory Agreements between the
Commission's PCU and Provincial Governors, representing Provincial Development Councils, and Executing
Agreements between the PCU's Provincial Implementation Units, to be located at, and working in coordination with,
the Provincial Health Offices of SESPAS, and Health Providers (e.g., hospitals, ambulatory facilities), would signed.
Such agreements reflect the institutional structure of the Government's reform program for the health sector and aim
at fostering the decentralization process at the provincial level and the participation of major stakeholders in the
sector, reserving to the Commission's PCU the tasks of supervision and assistance to the provincial authorities.
Agreements between the Executive Commission for Health Reform's PCU and participating Provinces and Areas.
The formulation and implementation of provincial subprojects would require a great deal of autonomy from the
central policies of SESPAS. Increased autonomy would be linked with greater financial and managerial flexibility at
the provincial level and accountability to clearly-defined milestones of quality, user satisfaction and cost-
effectiveness. To these ends, the drafting by the PCU and the adoption by Government of a model umbrella
participation agreement between the Commission's PCU and the Provincial Governors in representation of the
Provincial Development Councils in each participating province with terms and conditions satisfactory to the World
Bank would be a condition of effectiveness. Said participation agreement would establish the overall framework for
the activities to be carried out in each province under the provincial subprojects; such subprojects would be prepared,
evaluated and executed in accordance with the Operations Manual for the project. The Commission's PCU would act
as a liaison agency with the World Bank and, with the support of a procurement agent, would be responsible for the
procurement and disbursement process pursuant to the World Bank's applicable rules; in case of non-compliance by
any province of any of its obligations the Commission's PCU may suspend or cancel the financing of any of the
activities originally assigned to such province, and reallocate the respective resources to other provinces. The first
disbursement for each provincial subproject in participating provinces located in project regions would be subject to



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 5
Country: Dominican Republic                                                Provincial Health Services Project
the signing of a specific subproject agreement between the Commission's PCU and the Provincial Governor in
representation of the Provincial Development Councils.
Executing Agreements between Provincial Implementation Units and Health Care Providers.  The Executing
Agreement would allow the involvement of hospitals and ambulatory facilities in the decentralization process and in
the establishment of the provincial integrated health care networks. Such hospitals or ambulatory facilities would
benefit from the activities financed under the provincial subprojects in areas like infrastructure, equipment, and
technical assistance, provided that they undertake to achieve specific performance indicators in matters of coverage
and quality of services.
Decentralization Framwork
In addition to the above agreements, during negotiations the Government committed to take all actions necessary or
advisable to establish the framework for a decentralization process at the level of the integrated health services
network in the participating provinces. Such framework would be furnished to the World Bank not later than
February 15, 1998, and would include an exceptional regime for hospital and health centers to participate in the
networks, receive financing under the proposed loan and undertake commitments on improvement of quality and
covesrage of services.
Accounting. financial reporting, and auditing arrangements
The financial administration of the project (including contracting and disbursement) would be coordinated by the
PCU, with the support from UNDP. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account with a 90-day advance would be
established. The project will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank.
Monitoring and evaluation
The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring and analysis. The supervision of the provincial subprojects
would be carried out by provinces or areas supported by PCU staff and consultants. Progress reports regarding
project implementation results and expenditure for the preceding six months and a related review of achievements and
shortfalls based on established plans and objectives, would be sent by the PCU to the World Bank every six months.
The two reports covering the immediate prior calendar year shall be consolidated into an annual review held by the
World Bank and the PCU in the third quarter of each calendar year during project implementation. Each such review
shall conclude with the preparation of an annual plan of action to be carried out by the PCU during the year following
the review. A mid-term review would be carried out at the beginning of the third year of project implementation to
conduct a comprehensive review of the project components. It would include, in addition, an evaluation of the
effectiveness of provision of project inputs in achieving key targets for improving sector performance.
The project is anticipated to require intensive supervision especially in the initial implementation phase because of its
decentralized nature and the fact that this would be the World Bank's first operation in the health sector of the
Dominican Republic.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 6
Country: Dominican Republic                                                Provincial Health Services Project
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:                     CAS last discussed on April 4, 1995.
Report No. 14260-DO
.The proposed project would directly support the CAS's objectives of reducing poverty and improving the country's
human capital base. As envisaged in the CAS, the project in conjunction with an IDB-supported project, would help
to reconfigure the health system, promote integration of public and private services within a decentralized context,
and reallocate health expenditures to basic health care for the poor. In addition to the IDB, as contemplated in the
CAS, the World Bank is working with other donors to support reforms and ensure complementarity in lending and
technical assistance (e.g., USAID, UNDP, PAHO/WHO, European Union).
. The proposed project is also fully consistent with the World Bank's Strategy in the HNP Sector as stated in the Sector
Strategy Paper: Health, Nutrition and Population Sector (HNP SAS) of September, 1997. More specifically, the
policy advice and financial support to be provided under the proposed project would help operationalize in the
Dominican Republic approaches to the three major HNP development priorities described in the SAS: (i) improve the
health, nutrition and reproductive outcomes of the Dominican poor, and protect other segments of the population from
the impoverishing effects of illness, malnutrition, and high fertility; (ii) enhance the performance of health care
systems by promoting equitable access to preventive and curative care, particularly maternal and child health care,
that are affordable, effective, efficient, of good quality, and responsive to clients; and (iii) secure sustainable health
care financing by mobilizing adequate levels of financial resources and by improving resource allocation and
utilization.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues:
Widespread Poverty and Low Health Status.
. The Dominican Republic, with 7.8 million people, is one of the more densely populated countries in the Americas.
Although about 45% of the population still resides in the countryside, rural to urban migration is very rapid. The
country suffers from widespread poverty and a highly unequal distribution of wealth. More than one in four
Dominicans live in poverty, and almost in ten, in extreme poverty. Poverty grips rural Dominicans the tightest,
especially children. Health indicators in the Dominican Republic are among the worst in the LAC Region, comparing
unfavorably with countries of similar per capita income (US$1,460 in 1995). About 48 of every thousand infants die
before the age of one (a rate four times higher than in Costa Rica and Chile), and it varies from 39 per 1,000 in urban
areas to over 65 per 1,000 in rural communities reflecting regional disparities and income levels. Mortality for
children under 5 years of age, an indicator that measures the combined effect of nutrition, access to immunization and
curative health services, and local conditions, is over 44 per 1,000 live births (more than three times higher than in
Chile or Costa Rica). Communicable diseases (infectious and parasitic diseases) and conditions originating in the
peri-natal period (diseases of the mother and obstetrical complications that affect the fetus, respiratory problems of
the fetus, and infections specific to the neonate period) continue to be the chief causes of infant mortality;
communicable diseases and external causes such as injuries due to accidents are the main causes of mortality among
clhildren under 5 years of age. For every 100,000 children born, 180 women die in childbirth (about three times the
rate of Chile). Since toxemia and hemorrhages account for more than 50 percent of maternal deaths in the Dominican
Republic, this situation reflects deficiencies in coverage and quality of both prenatal care and care provided during
childbirth and in the immediate postpartum.
Intrasectoral Fragmentation, Inequitable Access and Coverage, and Institutional Weakness.
. The heath sector is not poised to respond effectively to the above challenges. Equity is a serious concern; about 20
percent of Dominicans and 33 percent of the poor lack or have limited access to health care, particularly in rural and
peri-urban areas. Although total health care spending represents a modest 5% of GDP per year ( below the average in
the LAC Region of 7.2%), in comparison with other Latin American countries public spending on health as a
proportion of GDP is among the lowest (about 1.2%). It is also inequitable and inefficient The Secretariat of Public
Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) and the Dominican Social Security Institute (IDSS) account for 0.8% and
0.4% of GDP, respectively, or 13% and 10% of total health care spending, allowing average per capita spending in
the public sector of only US$27, well below the average in the LAC Region of US$97. Direct household
expenditures amount to about 2.8% of GDP or 49% of overall health spending; this situation implies that the poorest



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 7
Country: Dominican Republic                                                   Provincial Health Services Project
40 % of the population in addition to suffering a disproportional high burden of disease spend a significant portion of
their income on health care, which averages about 9%, as opposed to less than 3% for the non-poor. Expenditures on
private health care insurance account for 1% of GDP or 18% of total health spending. Other public and private
arrangements, including NGOs, account for the remaining 10% of total health spending.
The current health and social security legislation is archaic. While the Health Code, dating from the 1940s, is
strongly centralist, the social security law excludes public and private workers earning over a relatively low income
level from health insurance protection, does not mandate coverage extension or family health coverage, and melds the
financing and administration of pension, health and work injuries programs into a single fund. Institutional
arrangements for policy, financing and service delivery are weak and disorganized (i.e., they reflect a mix of poorly
coordinated public and private institutions). This intrasectoral fragmnentation implies that different institutions make
policies, set plans, and implement programs more or less independently, resulting in duplication of investments and
activities. In principle, SESPAS is responsible for providing health care to 70 percent of the population. Yet with the
47 percent of public health spending it controls, SESPAS provides services to only about 45 percent of the population.
IDSS controls 29 percent of public health spending and serves about 6 percent of the population. The private sector
serves about 20 percent of the population. Although SESPAS is the major provider of care for the poor, the poor are
also major users of private outpatient and hospital facilities.
Important services are neglected, resources are allocated inappropriately, and efficiency is low in the public sector.
Public services are mainly curative and located in urban hospitals, depleting resources from primary and preventative
services for patients in rural and peri-urban areas. The pyramidal referral flow between levels of care does not work
efficiently. Poor coordination and complementarity between primary care facilities and hospital services are major
functional defects of the SESPAS network. As a result coverage of basic health services such as prenatal care is
inadequate and the quality of care is poor (e.g., unfamiliarity with basic treatment protocols, erroneous diagnoses and
treatment patterns). About 600 health centers and clinics are underused because of physical deterioration, supply
shortages, staffing deficiency, and poor quality of care. Additionally, management and technical weaknesses at the
different levels of the system constrain the implementation of programs and activities. The incentive structure is
perverse, as financial resources are allocated to personnel and facilities regardless of their performance or the quality
of services delivered using annual budgets determined centrally on a historical basis. Public resources are also
inequitable distributed. For example, nearly two-thirds of SESPAS non-administrative spending is concentrated in
two regions containing large metropolitan areas (Santo Domingo and Santiago), where about 50% of the population
resides. All of the above translates into a high consumer dissatisfaction with Government health services. Poor
quality medical care is also provided in private settings due to the lack of accreditation standards and monitoring
practices to ensure that minimum quality standards are met by health providers. Risk selection and exclusion of
costly treatments and chronic diseases are common among private health insurers, as commercial insurers, pre-paid
group practices, and self-insurance plans operate within a regulatory void.
Governiment Development Strategy:
The new Administration has formulated a pro-active agenda of poverty reduction, particularly for woman and
children, wide-scale privatization, social security and pension reform, judicial reform, health sector reform, civil
service reform, and anti-corruption. The new Administration has set a top priority of reforming the role of the state,
by reducing its total presence in the economy, while increasing transparency, combating corruption, and directing
expenditures to social sectors.
Goverment State Modernizarategy:
Soon after taking office in August 16, 1996 the present Government launched the National State Modernization and
Reform Program (PNMRE). It seeks to transform the role of Government and its relation with civil society through
the redefinition and transformation of public institutions.  Presidential Decree No. 484 (1996) created the
Commission for the Reform and Modernization of the State. The Commission is responsible for developing a global
framework and action plan to guide, oversee and coordinate the modernization efforts in public institutions. Fully
consistent with PNMRE, Presidential Decrees No. 613-96 and No. 312-97, established Provincial Development
Councils and regulated their organization and operation, respectively. Said Councils, comprised of provincial and
municipal authorities as well as community representatives, are responsible for promoting social participation in
plaming, administering and implementing development programs at the provincial and municipal levels, as well as
for strengthening public and private collaboration. Presidential Decree 313-97 established a Presidential Commission



Project Apprisal Document                                                                        Page S
Country: Dominican Republic                                                   Provindal Health Services Project
for supporting provincial development, including the promotion of rapid social assessments for subproject
formulation and the systematization and dissemination of experiences.
Health Sector Strategy:
As described in its Policy Letter of August 12, 1997, addressed to both the World Bank and the IDB, the
Government's Health Sector Reform and Modernization Program, that serves as a framework for the implementation
of the World Bank-and the IDB-supported parallel projects, aims to improve health and nutrition status of the
population, particularly the poor, by facilitating access to quality health services in an efficient and sustainable way.
To this end, the following sector strategies are contemplated: (i) development and strengthening of national health
policies, including those geared to the redefinition of institutional roles, decentralization, inter-institutional
coordination, public-private linkages, human resources development, financing and resource allocation, and
monitoring and impact evaluation; (ii) restructuring of SESPAS, focusing on human resources management,
decentralization of service provision, reorganization of budgetary and fnancial management, development of new
resource allocation mechanisms and development and implantation of management information systems; (iii)
reorganization of the national medical supply system; (iv) expansion of health care coverage following new financing
and service provision arrangements; (v) hospital reform and modernization; and (vi) reform of the medical program
under IDSS.
The project, in conjunction with the IDB-supported parallel project, is consistent with Government strategies,
including: (i) reorientation of government social spending to target resources to special population groups with a
focus on poverty reduction; (ii) reorganization of public agencies as a means to improve their efficiency, quality and
coverage; (iii) revamping of legal and regulatory sectoral frameworks; (iv) establishment of linkages between
government and the private sector; (v) decentralization of decision making on social service delivery and resource
allocation; and (vi) community involvement and participation. If implemented successfully, the proposed projects
would in effect represent the vehicles for achieving Government goals in the health sector.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Overall, the project would help improve the quality and efficiency of basic health care, particularly maternal and child
health care, by supporting the reform and strengthening of health care organization, financing and delivery at the
provincial and area levels. The project would help expand the coverage of basic health services by targeting vulnerable
groups (i.e. pregnant and lactating women and children under 5 years of age) in provinces in which the greater
concentration of poor. exists. The project would build upon the Government's public policy ad institutional reforms in
accordance with local needs and conditions, while putting in place the necessary safeguards for ensuring efficient use of
resources. To help create a system that is more equitable, efficient, and integrated, that provides high quality of care, and
in which the distinct character and autonomy of the various institutional providers are preserved, integrated
public/private delivery systems would be designed and pilot-tested in project areas. In addition, the project would
support Government's decentralization efforts through the direct involvement of provincial and area teams in the
preparation and implementation of provincial subprojects.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
. op:-Down Approach. One alternative design would have been a top-down, fully-detailed blueprint design. However,
in the context of this project, a blueprint project for each province located in the project's regions would have been
too rigid. It could have resulted in non-performance by some provinces on account of changes in the fiscal and
political situation, causing changes in priorities and rotation of key personnel. Instead, the project is designed as a
broad common fund to finance in a gradual and incremental manner a essential program of services and policy and
institutional reforms at the provincial and area levels according to an agreed set of criteria and procedures. This
allows for participatory approaches to engage different stakeholders, including potential beneficiaries at the local
level, test out a wider range of policy and institutional reform instruments on a small scale to learn and incorporate
lessons of experience, and build implementation capacity through human resources development.
. Larger Project. The second alternative would have been a larger project. Given the IDB-supported parallel project, as
well as support provided by other international agencies, this may have put excessive pressure on the institutional
capacity and human resource base in the Dominican Republic's health sector, and would have increased project risk.
As currently designed, it responds directly to the request of the Government, is highly decentralized, and would be
implemented directly by the participating provinces and areas. As some provinces will be weaker and will need more



Project Appral Document                                                                        Page 9
Country: Dominican Republic                                                  Provincal Health Services Project
assistance, entrance of new provinces would be phased under the project. In addition, the project would benefit from
a strong element of social participation at the provincial and area levels. In all subprojects, major stakeholders (e.g.,
health workers, beneficiaries, NGOs, government institutions, and other actors) would be closely involved in their
design and implementation. This approach would ensure project sustainability.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned).
. Dominican Republic-Health Sector IDF Grant (28730-DR): In 1993, the Government of the Dominican Republic
received an institutional development grant from the World Bank (US$248,000) to assist in the strengthening of
SESPAS. Two main sets of items were actually financed by the grant: (i) the elaboration of studies and proposals;
and (ii) the acquisition of computer and office equipment. The studies looked at the following themes: administrative
reforms of SESPAS; implantation of the civil service law and administrative career at SESPAS; and decentralization
of health care management and delivery. The studies and proposals were completed during 1994-96, but no follow up
activity was undertaken due to a series of ministerial and senior staff changes and lack of consensus on a concrete
action plan (a completion report prepared by PAHO/WHO Country Representation in March 1997 is in the project
files).
* IDB-supported Projects: The IDB has implemented one health project in the Dominican Republic (Ln. 680/SF and
ATN/SF-2057), disbursing approximately US$20 million between 1983 and 1987. This project supported the
construction and equipping of small hospitals and rural clinics. The Technical Cooperation aimed to strengthen
institutional capacity to operate and maintain the facilities constructed under the loan. An auditing report highlighted
the low technical and managerial capacity of SESPAS to implement program activities. This was particularly the
case for items such as consultancies and training. Delays of government contributions of matching funds stalled
implementation considerably.  Similarly, in Ln. 930/SF-DR and 825/OC-DR for the Social Investmnent Fund
(Procomunidad) small medical centers were constructed, yet in some cases the absence of personnel and recurrent
cost financing by SESPAS jeopardized this part of the program. An important lesson learned relates to the need to
link infrastructure and equipment investments to changes in how delivery systems are organized, managed, paid and
supervised.   An important corollary is that the most effective way to  assure high  benefits from
infrastructure/equipment investments is to reform the policy and institutional framework and augment institutional
capacity to respond to health care needs.
. Recent World Bank/IDB support for the preparation of Health Sector Reform Program: Since July 1995, the World
Bank, through a Japanese Grant Agreement (TF No. 029364; effective in September 1995) and Advances from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF No 310-0-DO; effective in November 1996, PPF No.310-1-DO, effective in October
1997), and the IDB, through ATN-501 1-DR, have supported the preparation of a broad health sector reform program
that would serve as a medium-term framework to guide sectoral reforms and investments. In addition, said assistance
has supported the preparatory work for the proposed project as well as the IDB-financed project. This has been a
successful experience in part because of SESPAS's delegation of program execution to a technically competent but
external coordinating unit. The key lesson from this experience is the need to establish a stable but technically
competent team to facilitate project implementation.
Proposed IDB-financed Health Sector Modernization and Restructuring: The project consists of four components: (i)
policy development; (ii) institutional reorganization of SESPAS; (iii) restructuring and institutional modernization of
the IDSS medical program; and (iv) strengthening of basic and hospital services in regions not covered by the
proposed World Bank-financed project. Total project cost is estimated at US$75 million.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design: The project design builds on the experience of
relevant operations financed by the World Bank group over the past decade. Lessons learned from these projects
indicate that successful implementation is closely associated with: (i) linking the definition of project objectives and
scope to a clear policy framework; (ii) obtaining strong and pervasive government commitnent; (iii) designing simple
projects with focused and modest objectives; (iv) linking financing of critical investments to the implementation of
policy and/or institutional reform; (v) periodic evaluation of the project is essential to allow adjustments to be made
to the project design and its implementation arrangements; and (vi) conducting intensive technical supervision by the
World Bank. Review of outside literature provide evidence on improved performance of integrated health systems.
Specifically, the Health Systems Integration Study (Shortell, Gillies, and Anderson 1994; Shortell et al. 1996) found
that more integrated systems performed better financially relative to their competitors. Other findings included: (i)



Project Apprisal Document                                                                      Page 10
Country: Dominican Republic                                                  Provincial Health Services Project
greater physician-system integration was significantly related to higher inpatient productivity and to higher levels of
clinical integration; (ii) a greater percentage of system physicians practicing in primary care groups was positively
related to a system's total operating margin; and (iii) greater perceived clinical integration was related to greater
system net revenue and to higher inpatient productivity. Also, a recent study of California hospitals found that those
belonging to integrated delivery systems had higher price-cost margins and higher profitability than random
collections of independent hospitals (Dranove and Shanley 1995).
The Government's Policy Letter of July 1997 provides the overall foundation for project activities. Given the limited
institutional capacity of sector agencies, their lack of familiarity with World Bank procedures, and the complexity of
health sector reform, the design of the project is simple but relevant, particularly in terms of advancing the
decentralization strategy in the health sector and the integration of service providers. Project preparation has given
particular attention to sharpening the focus of project objectives, specifying the scope of the components, and refning
the contents and timetable of implementation arrangements. Political support for health sector reform is manifested
by the establishment of the Executive Commission for Health Reform by Presidential Decree, as well as by the ample
participation of different stakeholders in the preparation of the project.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The enactment of the above-mentioned Presidential Decree establishing the Executive Commission for Health Sector
Iteform, and the submission of a Health Policy Letter to both the World Bank and the IDB outlining the
Government's medium-term goals for the sector, the sector reform program, and the commitment to finance and
implement these reforns, establishes Government commitment to health sector reform.
12. Value added of Bank support:
The World Bank
. hbas helped transfer the experience from similar projects worldwide, both in the technical design of the project and in
the introduction of implementation arrangements that ensure a successful operation, as well as supported the
establishment of technical cooperation arrangements with other countries in the region, such as Chile, Colombia and
Ecuador;
. would provide stronger oversight on the use of funds, consistent with World Bank procurement and disbursement
guidelines;
. would permit on-going evaluation of the project during project implementation. and adjustments, if necessary; and
. would facilitate coordination with other health and poverty reduction programs.
Expected continuity of Task Manager and team members with appropriate skill mix will help project implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 11
Country: Dominican Republic                                                  Provincial Health Services Project
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment 03 Cost-Benefit Analysis:         0  Cost- Effectiveness Analysis:   a] Other
(see Annex 4)   I: NPV=US$62.0 million; IERR=77%
II: NPV=US$84.1 million; IERR=64%
Cost-benefit analysis: Estimating a 10-year stream of benefits    Cost-effectiveness analysis: The project is
and costs, the net present value of the benefits (NPV) under    expected to reduce the burden of disease by
Scenario I (benefits in terms of reduction in infant and maternal    approximately 130,000 disability adjusted life
mortality) is about US$62 million, with an internal economic    years (DALYs), with over 60% of the reduction
rate of return (IERR) of 77%; and under Scenario II (benefits in    among the poorest population groups covered
terms of disability adjusted life years (DALYs), the NPV is    by the project, at an average cost of about
about US$84.1 million, with an IERR of 64%.                US$314 per DALY saved. This in line with
Sensitivity Analysis: Under Scenario I, if the project were   the average cost per DALY estimated in the
delayed by 2 years, the NPV and IER would be reduced to    1993 World Development Report (US$20 to
US$47..3 million and 72% respectively. If the benefits were to    US$350), as well as in other World Bank
be reduced by 20%, NPV and IERR would be reduced to    projects.
US$41.8 million and 53%, respectively. Under Scenario II, if
the project were delayed by 2 years, the NPV and IERR would
be reduced to US$25.4 million and 52% respectively. If the
benefits were to be reduced by 20%, NPV and IERR would be
reduced to US$59.4 million and 47%, respectively.
14. Financial Assessment:
Upon project completion, the burden of recurrent spending generated by the proposed project on total public health
spending is estimated at US$5.2 per year, including the additional operating costs generated by the investment,
maintenance costs of 5% per year, and an annual depreciation of 10% per year for equipment. As a share of existing
health expenditure levels, estimated recurrent expenditures are projected to reach a maximum of 8% of total SESPAS
spending, with similar levels of recurrent spending projected in each of the four regions covered under the project.
15. Technical Assessment:
. The project is technically justified on the basis of the importance of the problems it addresses, its vulnerability to
cost-effective interventions, their affordability, and the political consensus on the need for health sector reform and
modernization.
. To help reduce high infant and child mortality and morbidity, the project would adopt a new strategy, Integrated
Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI). The implementation of IMCI worldwide is supported by different
international cooperation agencies as one of the most cost-effective public health strategies. Indeed, the World
Bank's 1993 World Development Report, confirmed that IMCI is the most efficient health intervention in terms of its
impact on the burden of disease and death in the population, and is the most cost-effective health intervention. The
approach in this new strategy is to treat the child as a whole instead of directing attention to parts of the problem.
IMCI teaches health workers how to evaluate major problems and diseases that affect the health of the children, to
detect and treat specific diseases or sign of danger, and also includes educating parents on how to care for children in
the home, to prevent diseases and improve their general health conditions.
. The project goes beyond IMCI, as it addresses reproductive health problems. The delivery of a package on
integrative health services would also be geared to address the poor health of women and to curb maternal mortality
through services such as prenatal care, referral of high risk pregnancies, family planning, and cervical cancer
screening. In addition, the capacity of provincial health systems to manage appropriately complications of delivery
would be improved by upgrading physical infrastructure and equipment, training personnel, and strengthening the
referral network.
. Additionally, the project, in accordance with some general lessons that have been learned elsewhere, would raise
efficiency in the provincial systems under SESPAS through improvements in policymaking, governance,
management, incentives, and accountability (encouraging decentralization and health services integration), and raise
the quality of care through the establishment of quality assurance systems and training of personnel. The project
would foster in the medium and long term a more balance participation by NGOs, local communities, and the private
sector in health care delivery systems at the provincial level, secure adequate levels of financing, improve budgeting
practices and allocate resources according to priorities. Although worldwide evidence is still incomplete, improved



Project Appraisl Document                                                                       Page 12
Country: Dominican RepubUc                                                    Provindcial Health Services Project
integration of patient care has shown to enhance overall performance of the healthcare organization. Evidence also
exists indicating that coordination and integration of information flows across stages in the patient care process,
lowers total system costs, or enhances overall performance in other ways.
16. Institutional Assessment:
The institutional capacity of the public health institutions is weak at both the national and the provincial levels, and
this would limit the scope and rapidity of the proposed policy and institutional reforms. Decentralization, widely
perceived in the Dominican Republic as a means to foster greater local participation, is constrained by the absence of
subnational government levels with elected officials and the authority to raise revenue. In response to these
challenges, project implementation would emphasize pilot activities and incremental changes, and be linked to
decentralization and public sector reform and modernization strategies and programs for the country as a whole.
Institutional capacity of participating provincial institutions would be reviewed as part of provincial subproject
preparation and a technical assistance program would be designed and included as part of each provincial subproject
to strengthen their institutional capacity during implementation. Coordination with other donor agencies would be
promoted to avoid duplication of efforts and to maximize support for policy and institutional reforms. Technical
assistance to be provided under the project would help: (i) improve preparation of subprojects; (ii) strengthen the
management of the UEPs, so as to improve the implementafion of subprojects; this would result in increases in
efficiency through better programming, management, and monitoring of subprojects; and (iii) help provinces set up
and consolidate multisector teams.
17. Social Assessment:
The strategy for project preparation has been participatory and emphasized broad consultation. Active involvement
by institufional representatives was achieved. A political mapping and stakeholder assessment, with technical
assistance from Harvard University School of Public Health, as well as a household survey assessing consumer
perceptions of the quality of health services (ESU-96 Utifizaci6n de Servicios de Salud y Satisfacci6n de los
Usuarios), were conducted during project preparation. Both the political mapping and stakeholder assessment and the
household survey demonstrated considerable support for reform among health service users, private sector providers,
NGOs, business community and labor groups. Over half of survey respondents agreed that the system requires a
complete transformation. However, pressure to maintain the status quo is strong among some sectoral actors. Many
benefit from the chaotic nature of the sector and the well-documented disorganization, inefficiency and
ineffectiveness of its public institutions. As a result, the effectiveness and viability of the reform process will require
strong political support from higher levels of goveriunent and broad stakeholder consultation and participation. The
par-ticipatory activities initiated during preparation would continue during implementation, particularly to inform and
mobilize the beneficiaries and their representatives in the Provincial Development Councils and in Congress.
18. Environmental Assessment             Environmental Category    B
The infrastructure works of the provincial subprojects would be limited to rehabilitation and equipping of existing
health facilities, and are expected to have no negative environmental impact. Environmental construction and
management norms for health facilities, including internal waste management, personnel health and safety provisions
for the operation of equipment would be part of the Operations Manual for the project.
Given the deficient environmental situation observed in public health facilities, as documented in two assessments
prepared during the preparation of the investment program (Informe Ambiental y Social, dated August 4, 1997,
prepared for the IDB-supported project, and Informe de Situacion del Manejo de Residuos Hospitalarios para la
Ficha Ambiental del Proyecto, dated October 3, 1997, prepared for the World Bank-supported project), the project, in
conjunction with the IDB-supported project, would support the following specific activities: (i) as part of an overall
accreditation/quality assurance process, the formulation and approval of norms, policies and enforcement mechanisms
to control and manage liquid and solid waste in hospitals and ambulatory facilities; (ii) development and
implementation of training and environmental education programs on waste management for health authorities and
personnel of hospitals and ambulatory facilities, and (iii) under provincial subprojects, rehabilitation of infrastructure
and the installation of equipment and systems for the 'self-contained" treatment of liquid and solid wastes in hospitals
and ambulatory facilities located in areas in which municipal systems lack infrastructure for adequate treatment.
Also, hospitals and ambulatory facilities receiving project financing would be required to establish training programs
and systems for waste management. All of the above measures would be included in the Operations Manual for the
project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 13
Country: Dominican Republic                                               Provincial Health Services Project
19. Participatory Approach    Identification paron       Impmtation                Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups   IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL            IS, CON, COL
Intermediary NGOs     IS, CON, COL           IS, CON, COL           IS, CON, COL
Academic institutions     IS, CON                IS, CON                IS, CON
Local government     IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL            IS, CON, COL
Other donors    IS, CON. COL           IS, CON, COL            IS, CON, COL
Note: information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL)
20. Sustainability:
The project would be sustainable because it enjoys support at the highest political levels; major sectoral stakeholders
have been involved in project preparation and would participate in project implementation assuring country
ownership; the fiscal impact of the investments is very modest (see financial analysis); and project implementation
would be managed by a strong technical group at the PCU with support from provincial bodies. In addition, strong
commitment of Government for counterpart financing has been obtained.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1)
RRk  R Rskating                                      anemizoM
Project outputs to development objectives:
Frequent  political  and  administrative  Medium       Continued involvement of major stakeholders
changes at the central and provincial levels           (e.g., provincial and municipal authorities,
that may affect ownership and management               beneficiaries).
capacity;
Project compmnents to utputs:              Low         Assigning clear project management
Number and variety of actors involved                  responsibilities to the PCU. Flexible project
(central level, provinces, and                         design; clear definition of major participants'
municipalities);                                      roles in the project.
Insufficient provincial or municipality    High        Project implementation would follow a gradual
capacity                                               and incremental approach to allow for
institutional building; project implementation
would proceed independently in each province,
diminishing the risk of administrative bottlenecks
affecting the project as a whole; substantial
technical assistance; periodic monitoring and
supervision; a procurement agent would provide
administrative and financial management support
Limited funds to finance recurrent costs    Low        Financing of recurrent costs on a declining basis;
modest fiscal impact.
Approval of poor-quality subprojects on the  Low       Using transparent eligibility and evaluation
basis of political patronage                           criteria for the selection of subprojects;
independent monitoring, and financial audits.
Potential conflict and duplication of efforts,  High   High political commitment for both projects,
as well as excessive pressure on the                   guided by a single Policy Letter; projects tackle
institutional capacity and human resource              different areas of reform program and concentrate
base in the health system, due to the parallel         in different levels of the health system and
implementation of two projects                         geographical regions; management of both
projects under same PCU.
Overall project risk rating               Medium
22. Possible Controversial Aspects
None



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 14
Country: Dominican Republic                                                 Provincial Health Services Project
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions:
Drafting by the PCU and adoption by Government of a model umbrella subproject implementation agreement betwee
the Commission's PCU and the Governors, representing the Provincial Development Councils in the participating
provinces, as well as executing agreements between Provincial Implementing Units and Health Care Providers, wit
terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank;
. Drafting of Operations Manual satisfactory to the World Bank, and be adopted by the Government.
24. Other
The main conditions are:
 Implementation of the project in conformance with an Operational Manual covering provincial participation criteria,
and subproject eligibility and evaluation criteria
. Maintenance of PCU acceptable to the World Bank
. Timely allocation of counterpart funds and adequate source for financing recurrent costs
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable World Bank policies.l
Patricio Marquez                                               Jamil Salmi
Task Manager                                             Acting Director CMU



ANNEX 1
Project Design Summary
CAS Objective
Poverty alleviation and  Human resources development ENDESA surveys; Central
human resources         (HRD) indicators; poverty   Bank surveys and data
.,development           indicators .
Project Development                                                          (PDO to CAS)
Objectives
lmproved maternal and   *  Reduce by 30% infant,    SESPAS health statistics;   Overall economic
child health status in      under 5 child mortality,    ENDESA surveys; health   stability, political
participating provinces     and maternal mortality    status monitoring surveys.  support for policy and
rates in project areas  Pre-project; Year 3; Post-  institutional reforms,
project.                and adequate
financing of social
sector programs.
Outputs
Financing/              *  Number of agreements    Project records           Main assumption
implementation of           signed between the PCU                           would be:
provincial subprojects      and Provincial                                   administrative and
Development Councils                            political stability at
granting fnancial and                           the provincial level;
managerial flexibility to                       provincial capacity to
the participating                               prepare and
provinces from the                              implement
central policies of                             subprojects; SESPAS-
SESPAS for subproject                           provinces defne and
implementation                                  adopt arrangements
*  Number of completed                              for establishing
provincial subprojects in                       integrative delivery
project regions.                                systems;
adequate and effective
coordination,
complementarity and
cross-fertilization
arrangements with
IDB-financed project.
Enhanced organization   *  New methods for          Project Records
and management capacity     allocating funds to
of provincial health        providers selected,
systems                     developed, tested, and
adopted at provincial
health systems
*  Cost accounting and
financial management
systems selected,
developed, tested, and
15



adopted at provincial
health systems
*  Prototype medical records
model designed, tested,
and adopted at provincial
health systems
*   Quality assurance systems
selected, developed,
tested, and adopted at
provincial health systems
*  Number of administrative
and fmancial personnel
trained
*  Number of service
delivery
agreements/contracts
signed between Provincial
Development Councils
and SESPAS health
facilities, NGOs, and
private providers
Inproved access to, and    *   Increase to 60% the      SESPAS health statistics;
quality of, essential health  proportion of mothers that  ENDESA surveys; health
interventions package         receive four prenatal     status monitoring surveys;
targeted to the poor in       visits during most recent   quality of care
participating provinces       birth                     assessments; patient
*   Increase to 90% the       satisfaction surveys. Pre-
proportion of             project; Year 3; Post-
professionally attended   project
deliveries
*   Increase to 95% the
proportion of children
with complete
immunization schedule
*   Clinical standards for
interventions in the
essential package of
health services defmed,
tested and adopted at
provincial health systems
*  90% of health facilities in
project areas in
compliance with
standards for essential
health interventions
*   Increased client
satisfaction with access
to, and quality of
provincial health systems
16



Greater community       *  Number of community    Project records
participation               groups involved in the
preparation,
implementation,
monitoring and evaluation
of provincial subprojects
Components:             Inputs:                                             (Components to
Outputs)
1. Provincial subprojects  1. US$33.5 m
Main assumptions
2. Policy development    2. US$2.7 m.                                       would be:
and studies
(i) Clear project
3. Project administration   3. US$2.2 m                                     management
responsibilities
coordinated by the
PCU with flexible
project design and
clear definition of
major participants'
roles in the project
during project
preparation;
(ii) Sufficient funds to
finance recurrent
costs;
(iii) Quality of
provincial subprojects
(e.g., technical design,
implementation
arrangements) is
adequate;
(iv) Provincial
subprojects are
implemented at an
acceptable level of
efficiency.
Baseline values would be defined as part of subproject preparation.
17



ANNEX 2a
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Project Description
The main objective of the proposed Provincial Health Services Project is to improve the
health status of the population, particularly among poor pregnant and lactating women and
children under 5 years of age, in selected peri-urban and rural areas in low-income provinces
located initially in Regions 0, 3, 4, and 7. To this end, the project would: (i) assist in the
expansion of health care coverage to reach the poorest population groups, focusing on mother
ancl child health care, by developing new health care organization, financial, and managerial
models at the provincial level; (ii) assist in improving the quality of integrated health care
services already provided to the poor; (iii) assist in strengthening policy-making and
management capacity of Provincial Health Offices of SESPAS, as well as of participating health
facilities; and (iv) assist in fostering community participation in the health system.
Project Areas
The project would cover initially low-income provinces and areas in Regions 0, 3, 4 and
7 (Table 1), where 48% of the country's population resides. A parallel project financed by the
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) covers the rest of the country (four additional regions).
Participating provinces would be selected on the basis of eligibility criteria as described in Annex
2b. In order to introduce flexibility in implementation, the PCU in agreement with the World
Bank would contemplate the option of including other eligible provinces located in regions not
covered initially by the project.
18



Table
Distribution of the Estimated Total and Poor Population in the Regions Covered by the
Project, by Province'.
1997
Region 0                        2,389,937       11.8%                   282,013
Region 3                         773,970                                395,235
* Duarte                         289,645        40.9                    118,465
* Maria Trinidad Sanchez         130,860        51.4                     67,262
* Salcedo                        102,194        55.6                     56,820
76,569        70.5                     53,981
* Sanchez Ramirez                174,702        56.5                     98,707
Region 4                         333,377                                204,526
* Barahona                       165,205        48.6                     80,290
* Independencia                   39,090         89                      34,790
* Bahoruco                       113,194        74.5                     84,330
* Pedernales                      15,888        32.2                      5,116
Region 7                         399,803                                198,785
* Valverde Mao                   170,978        36.1                     61,723
* Monte Cristi                    99,284        58.2                     57,783
* Santiago Rodriguez              61,828        58.9                     36,417
* Dajabon                         67,713        63.3                     42,862
TOTAL                           3,897,087      27.73%                  1,080,559
Project Components
Component 1: Provincial Subprojects (US$33.5 million, 80% of project costs)
Provincial subprojects would include: (i) essential health care interventions, centered
around maternal and child care activities; (ii) develop new health care organization, financing
and managerial models to create provincial integrated delivery systems; (iii) institutional
strengthening to reorganize and enhance the capacity of Provincial Health Offices of SESPAS, as
well as health facilities, to plan, program, implement and monitor health programs, including the
design and implementation of infonnation systems that link providers in order to facilitate
continuous improvement in service delivery and health outcomes of the population; (iv) training
and continuing education of health personnel to raise clinical and managerial capacity at
provincial level, so as to assist in the improvement of quality of health care and the
The unsatisfied basic needs data are from: SESPAS/OPS. Evaluacidn conjunta de la cooperaci6n tecnica OPS-RD. Informe de
la situacidn de salud. Santo Domingo, D.N., November 30, 1996.
19



decentralization of health care organization and financing; and (vi) monitoring, impact evaluation
and dissemination of local level experiences.
To the above ends, the project would finance the expansion, refurbishing and equipping
of existing facilities, purchasing of drugs, medical supplies, training of personnel and technical
assistance. Funds would also be allocated for staff supervision, maintenance, and health and
nutrition information, education and communication.
Essential Health Care Interventions. In line with the recently-launched National
Mobilization for the Reduction of Maternal and Child Mortality, 1997-2000 (May 1997), a
priority initiative of the Government, as well as with the Integrated Management of Childhood
Illness (IMCI) strategy, the project would support the delivery of women's reproductive health
and child health care interventions.
Women's reproductive health care interventions would include: pre-natal care,
including nutrition surveillance of pregnant women and detection of possible gestation and
delivery complications; tetanus vaccination; delivery; post-partum care; breastfeeding promotion;
birth spacing; control and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases; and cervical and breast
cancer screening.
Child health care interventions would help reduce infant and child mortality and
morbidity through infant care, growth monitoring, breastfeeding promotion, vaccination against
measles, diphtheria, pertussis, polio, tuberculosis, tetanus, oral rehydration therapy, prevention
and early treatment of gastrointestinal and acute respiratory diseases, oral health, as well as
injury control and prevention.
Health and nutrition education and promotion activities would provide information,
education, and communication about prenatal care, breastfeeding and infant feeding, dietary
quality, hygiene, family planning, sexually transmitted diseases, environmental health risks,
injury prevention, and appropriate management of childhood illness. The objective of these
activities would be to improve health and nutritional practices among the general population,
particularly changing behaviors, and prevent the onset of illness and disease. To this end, the
project would support in-service training for health personnel so that they improve the quality of
service delivery, disseminate health and nutrition messages effectively, and the development of
health and nutrition-related messages and materials, including radio and television campaigns.
Health Care Organization Model. The package of essential health interventions would
be delivered through an improved network of existing health centers and maternity wards of
local hospitals. To this end, the project would assist in the transformation of current health care
delivery systems operating at the provincial level from isolated and uncoordinated providers into
integrated delivery systems. The term integration refers both to "vertical integration" within
the SESPAS network, whereby the project would enhance coordination among ambulatory and
inpatient facilities by developing unified goals and incentives; and "virtual integration" or the
promotion of interinstitutional alliances between SESPAS, NGOs, IDSS and private providers
operating through contracts, agreements, franchise arrangements, or formal affiliation.
Underlying this proposed approach is the value chain concept (Porter, 1995) or in health services
20



the continuum of medical care concept, that refers to the sequence of related health service
production processes (from the most basic inputs of labor, capital, and materials to the next stage
of creating the service, and, finally, to the distribution of the service to the end-consumer or
patient).
Under this health care organization model, the first level of care will be provided by the
rural and peri-urban health centers or physician offices, while the most complex health care
services will be provided in a few hospital facilities in order to reduce cost and assure high
quality of medical care. Health centers or physician offices will become the entry point to the
provincial integrative delivery system by providing pre-natal care to pregnant women, and would
refer patients to higher complexity providers (e.g., specialists) or hospitals with obstetrics and
neonatal units for child delivery. After delivery, mothers and children would be referred back to
the health center, where they would receive post-partum care and health and nutrition education
and promotion, particularly for improving breastfeeding and infant feeding practices, and
periodic growth monitoring, checkups, and vaccinations. Health personnel would also undertake
outreach activities (e.g., home visits would be conducted to detect those beneficiaries failing to
meet their scheduled visits to health centers and motivate them to do so). As demonstrated
elsewhere, the two critical determinants of the success of integrated health systems are the
efficiency and effectiveness of the coordination of the medical care process and of information
exchange.
Assessments of individual situations in each of the participating provinces would
determine which form of integration to be pursued under the subprojects for the provision of the
essential health care interventions package. Although initial efforts would focus on increasing
efficiency within the SESPAS network, eventually contractual relationships could be established
with other providers, particularly with NGOs. In the long run, the integrated delivery system
must develop an explicit system of referrals between the SESPAS facilities and other institutions
(e.g., NGOs, IDSS, private providers). The overall objective in the initial phase of the reform
process is to support through the subprojects institutional building for the conversion of the
SESPAS network at the provincial level into self-standing operational entities able to compete
successfully for patients in a managed and capitated environment.
The subprojects would require a great degree of autonomy from the central policies of
SESPAS. Increased autonomy would be linked with greater financial and managerial flexibility
at the provincial level and accountability to clearly-defined milestones of quality, user
satisfaction and cost-effectiveness (these conditions would be specified in the subproject
agreements between the PCU and the Provincial Governors representing the Provincial
Development Councils).
The subprojects would finance technical assistance to:   (i) define the
organizational structure for the integrated delivery system on the basis of participatory
discussions and agreements at the provincial level; (ii) conduct rapid assessments of the
demographic and health care characteristics of the population to be covered by the system, as
well as the province's service delivery capacity for the provision of the essential package of
health interventions; (iii) determine investment needs for rehabilitating physical infrastructure
21



and reequipping of facilities, as well as medical supplies, staffing and training needs; and (iv)
test, adapt, and implement medical care quality assurance mechanisms.
Improvement of Health Services Network. In each province covered by a subproject,
the project would help rehabilitate and equip existing health facilities participating in the
integrated delivery system, improve staff mix, train existing and new staff, and provide related
medical supplies.
Institutional Modernization and Strengthening. The integrated delivery systems
would be sponsored by the Provincial Development Councils and would be under the
administrative authority of Provincial Health Offices of SESPAS, which would need to develop
and implement appropriate management systems for performing policy-making, programming,
resource allocation, supervision and control tasks. The management capacity of the facilities in
the integrated delivery systems would also need to be modernized and strengthened. In
particular, support would be provided for testing, adapting and implementing locally-based and
operated information systems with the capacity to identify service users, monitor utilization, and
provide cost information. The information system must connect all local providers participating
in the system, including physicians, health centers and hospitals, for the maximum continuity of
care. Data regarding members, utilization and costs would be collected and analyzed in order to
facilitate continuous improvement in service delivery and health outcomes of the population.
The process of institutional modernization and strengthening to be supported under the
subprojects would comprise the following activities:
3 Definition and development of management structures, decision-making levels, management
service agreements, and resource allocation mechanisms.
* Testing, adaptation and implementation of cost recovery systems and contracting
arrangements for the provision of services.
. Testing, adaptation and implementation of data collection systems for identifying and
registering users of integrative delivery systems.
* Strengthening of medical records.
* Testing, adaptation and implementation of health programming, supervision and control
systems, as well as epidemiological surveillance, health statistics, and health services
production and utilization systems.
* Testing, adaptation and implementation of financial management systems (accounting,
budgeting, costing, auditing and control).
* Testing, adaptation and implementation of medical supply and maintenance systems.
* Testing, adaptation and implementation of human resources management systems.
22



Training and continuing education of health personnel. Continuing education and
training of health personnel to raise technical and administrative capacity is an essential
precondition for the development and sustainability of the process of building integrated delivery
systems at the provincial level. The subprojects would support continuing education and
training programs related to maternal and child health care; health care policy and management;
health care financing; and medical care quality assurance.
Communication and Dissemination of Experiences.  Development and phased
consolidation of integrated delivery systems at the provincial level would require a broad base of
social support together with firm political commitment at the national and provincial levels. In
order to assure these conditions, the subprojects would provide assistance for activities aimed at
mobilizing broad support for policy and institutional reforms. To this end, the proposed
integrated delivery system's organizational and operational characteristics, and, most important,
the possible benefits to the population, both in terms of improved access to and quality of
medical care, and user satisfaction, would be publicized. The activities to be carried out fall into
two main groups: social communication through the mass media and other mechanisms; and
analysis, discussion and exchange of national and international experiences for policy-makers
and health sector officials and personnel.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision. The project would also finance monitoring,
evaluation and supervision of subproject implementation.
Strategy for Subproject Implementation. Critical activities for the subprojects would
be organized in stages over an average 3-year period. Before progressing from one stage to the
next, it would be necessary that the goals identified for the first stage be fulfilled. If these goals
are not achieved, remedial actions would be taken. If, within a reasonable time period, the
remedial action does not accomplish the goal, the subproject would be canceled or reformulated.
The stages are:
-  Qualification: establish Health Units within the Provincial Development Councils; select
staff for the Provincial Execution Units (UEPs); identify components of the provincial
integrated system (e.g., health centers, hospitals) and processes for collaboration; conduct
assessments and feasibility study to confirm readiness, in terms of capacity of existing
infrastructure (e.g., personnel, facilities, information systems); identify action plan and
timeframes for remediation.
*  Preparation and Development of Infrastructure: identify current population in catchment
areas; develop estimates of per capita annual costs of essential health interventions package;
develop first year budget and test and adapt method for allocating funds to providers and
facilities; establish performance measures by which the network would be evaluated,
including cost, patient satisfaction, quality; develop specifications and implementation plan
for information systems; develop specifications and implementation plan for cost accounting
and financial management system; test and adapt prototype for medical records; test and
23



adapt revised physician salary guidelines; define performance expectations for all members
of the integrated delivery system-physicians, administrators and staff- based on clinical
results, use of financial resources, and patient service satisfaction.
Implementation Phase: initiate continuous education and training activities related to the
above policy and institutional reforms; study tours within the Dominican Republic and
abroad to observe and absorb best practices; seek commitment and support from stakeholders
to support subproject.
* Evaluation and Expansion: establish contracting strategies with providers outside SESPAS
network (e.g., NGOs); identify additional provincial subprojects.
COMPONENT 2: Policy Development and Studies (US$2.7 million, 6.4% of project costs)
The project would finance workshops, seminars, study tours, and studies to design and assess the
feasibility of additional policy and institutional reforms. and processes. The undertaking of these
activities would be coordinated with the IDB-financed project and be geared towards
guaranteeing the implementation and sustainability of the changes proposed under the project.
More specifically, they would support the development of proposals to further decentralize
health care management and delivery. Approximately eight studies would be financed by the
project. Specific research topics would be established by mutual agreement between the PCU
and the World Bank.
A large unfinished medical campus -called Plaza de la Salud - located centrally in Santo
Domingo is a monumental construction hastily initiated about one year before the change over
the current administration. Large amounts of money have been invested. Under this component,
technical cooperation would be provided : (i) to minimize any further investments while
optimizing its use for the benefit of the health of the Dominican population; (ii) to integrate the
Plaza de la Salud into the provincial networks as a referral facilities; (iii) to take advantage of its
autonomy to give it a corporate status as a financially independent referral facility; and (iv) to
protect and guarantee the access of the poor referred for medical care. A business plan would
included and implement a mission statement, definition of the target population, relationships
with provincial networks, economic/financial and reimbursement study, financial management
systems (budgeting, cost accounting, billing and collections, auditing), human resources
programs, quality improvement processes, and management information studies. Experiences
gained and lessons learned would be applicable to other medical facilities and health delivery
systems.
Component 3: Project Administration (US$2.2 million, 5.2% of project costs)
This component would help finance the administrative and operating costs of the PCU
over a five-year period (1997-2003). This includes: (i) financing of PCU consultants; (ii)
provincial subprojects preparation costs; (iii) travel; (iv) training; and (v) other administrative
expenses (materials, cleaning, etc.).
24



ANNEX 2 b
Subproject Cycle and Eligibility Criteria
Participating Agencies and Procedures
The PCU, which reports to the Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform under
the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and SESPAS, would be responsible for project
coordination, including resource allocation for provincial subprojects.
Subprojects would be formulated by Provincial Implementation Units (UEPs), sponsored
by the Provincial Development Councils and located in the Provincial Health Offices of SESPAS
using: (a) the eligibility criteria agreed with the World Bank; (b) the methodology designed for
subproject preparation; and (c) the guidelines for subproject presentation, implementation and
evaluation.
The subproject cycle and eligibility criteria would be included in an Operational Manual,
satisfactory to the World Bank. They are summarized below.
Subproject Cycle
Promotion. The PCU would invite the provinces in the four Regions covered initially by
the project to identify subprojects for financing under the project. Representatives from the PCU
would visit provinces to transmit and explain subproject eligibility criteria. Technical assistance
would be provided to provinces for subproject preparation.
Preparation. Providers or groups of providers and local coordinating agencies would
present subproject ideas and proposals to the UEP which would prioritize and consolidate them.
Subproject documents would include notably a diagnosis of issues to be addressed, proposed
solutions, activities to be carried out, estimated cost, and arrangements to ensure sustainability.
Subproject preparation activities would be financed by the project; technical assistance would be
provided by the PCU.
Evaluation. The PCU would analyze proposals using the eligibility criteria.
Approval. The PCU would: (i) approve subprojects; (ii) suggest changes; or (iii) reject
them if they do not conform to the eligibility criteria. Approved subprojects would be sent to the
World Bank for its no objection.
Signing of Implementation Agreements. For the preparation and implementation of
provincial subprojects, Participatory Agreements between the commission's PCU and Provincial
Governors representing the Provincial Developments Councils, and Executing Agreements
between the UEP, to be located within the Provincial Health Offices of SESPAS, and Health
25



Providers (e.g., hospitals, ambulatory facilities), would signed. Such agreements reflect the
institutional structure of the Government's reform program for the health sector and aim at
fostering the decentralization process at the provincial level and the participation of major
stakeholders in the sector, reserving to the Commission's PCU the tasks of supervision and
assistance to the provincial authorities.
Agreements between the Executive Commission for Health Reform's PCU and participating
Provinces and Areas. The formulation and implementation of provincial subprojects would
require a great deal of autonomy from the central policies of SESPAS. Increased autonomy
would be linked with greater financial and managerial flexibility at the provincial level and
accountability to clearly-defined milestones of quality, user satisfaction and cost-effectiveness.
To these ends, the drafting by the PCU and the adoption by Government of a model umbrella
participation agreement between the Commission's PCU and the Provincial Governors in
representation of the Provincial Development Councils in each participating province with terms
and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank would be a condition of effectiveness. Said
participation agreement would establish the overall framework for the activities to be carried out
in each province under the provincial subprojects; such subprojects would be prepared, evaluated
and executed in accordance with the Operations Manual for the project. The Commission's PCU
would act as a liaison agency with the World Bank and, with support from a procurement agent,
would be responsible for the procurement and disbursement process pursuant to the World
Bank's applicable rules; in case of non-compliance by any province of any of its obligations the
Commissions PCU may suspend or cancel the financing of any of the activities originally
assigned to such province, and reallocate the respective resources to other provinces. The first
disbursement for each provincial subproject in participating provinces located in project regions
would be subject to the signing of a specific subproject agreement between the Commission's
PCU and the Provincial Governor in representation of the Provincial Development Councils.
Executing Agreements between Provincial Implementation Units and Health Care Providers.
The Executing Agreement would allow the involvement of hospitals and ambulatory facilities in
the decentralization process and in the establishment of the provincial integrated health care
networks. Such hospitals or ambulatory facilities would benefit from the activities financed
under the provincial subprojects in areas like infrastructure, equipment, and technical assistance,
provided that they undertake to achieve specific performance indicators in matters of coverage
and quality of services.
Implementation. For each subproject, the procurement of goods and equipment and the
contracting of consultants will be handled by the PCU with support from a procurement agent,
following the guidelines and procedures of the World Bank. Civil works contracts would be
managed by the PCU through a committee which would have majority representation by the
UEP and local level health care providers. Civil works contracts may include the rehabilitation
of existing facilities to enable the delivery of the defined package of essential services. The
majority of health facilities under the project are health centers in various municipalities. There
will be relatively little financing of hospitals, except for the rehabilitation and expansion of
maternity and pediatric services in a limited number of hospitals (about 1 or 2 per health region).
Equipment financed under the project would include minimal equipment for health centers, such
26



as personal computers, refrigerators, medical supply cabinets, stethoscopes,
sphygmomanometers, scales and measurement tapes, scissors, basic laboratory equipment,
among others. Hospital equipment might include beds, cabinets, delivery tables, operation room
lamps, x-ray machines, etc. Training and technical assistance may cover the cost of training
health staff, such as physicians, nurses and technicians, as well as administrative personnel.
Monitoring and Supervision. Supervision of the implementation of investment
subprojects in the provincial health service networks would be carried out by the UEPs and the
PCU, based on two different dimensions: (i) the implementation of the rehabilitation and
reequipping of facilities should be supervised and monitored in order to ensure compliance with
implementation schedules and the quality of materials (independent consultants could be hired to
carry out this task); and (ii) the transformation of the service delivery model through the
establishment of decentralized, autonomous and pluralistic integrated health networks, including
monitoring results indicators which would enable measurement of the improvement and impact
of services on the subproject's target population, and project performance indicators (Annex 1),
including the in-service training program.
Eligibility Criteria
Project Size. Subprojects would be provincial or area level in scale, i.e., at a minimum
they would cover a network of health care facilities that provide services to the target population
in the province.
Targeting. Subprojects should cover provinces or areas in the project regions in which
the poor represent at least 30 percent of the population.
Organization. A subproject should involve existing organizations, including provincial,
municipal, and non-governmental organizations, as well as existing facilities. The UEP should
remain in place for the duration of the subproject, and is responsible for all liaison with the PCU
at the national level. This involves intersectoral and interjurisdictional coordination of the project
relative to carrying out its objectives and establishing and conforming to project norms.
Sustainability. The province should have the political commitment to undertake policy
and institutional reforms for improving the delivery of basic health services as well as possess
the administrative capability to carry out the subproject, as demonstrated in the analysis
undertaken as part of subproject preparation. The capacity of a province to implement a
subproject would be based on existing capacity in the following areas: (a) types of existing
programs similar to the proposed subproject; (b) capacity of local organizations to manage
existing programs in the subproject area (quality, number, and experience of management staff of
local institutions); and (c) the province's experience in implementing other health and nutrition
programs.
Basic Package. Agreement to implement proposed package of essential health
interventions and proposed policy and institutional reforms.
27



Accounting and Audits. Establishment of separate subproject accounts, accounting, and
audit.
Counterpart Funds. Agreement to assign the required resources to the project, including
advance annual funding allocations and adequate cash releases to cover incremental recurrent
expenditures. Redeployment of staff or, when required, recruitment of incremental staff.
Performance Monitoring. Performance monitoring indicators (Annex 1) would be used
to monitor progress in subproject implementation and impact.
28



ANNEX 3
Estimated Projects Costs
(US$ million)
Provincial Subprojects                  17.5            16.0            33.5
Policies Development and Studies         0.5             2.2             2.7
Project Management                       2.0             0.2             2.2
Total Baseline Costs                    20.0            18.4            38.4
Physical Contingencies                   0.9             0.3             1.2
Price Contingencies                      0.8             1.6            2.4
29



ANNEX 4
Summary of Cost-Benefit and Cost-Effectiveness Analyses
The present annex presents the summary results of the cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness
analyses of the proposed project. The costs considered in the analysis include the expenditures
of the proposed World Bank loan and the cost of increasing the production and quality of
maternal and child health care services for the project's population of approximately 3.9 million
people. The benefits, and the overall economic rate of return, have been evaluated under two
scenarios. Under the first scenario, the project's benefits are estimated using reductions in
maternal and infant mortality as proxies for the return on the investment. In the second scenario,
the benefits are estimated based on the results of detailed estimates of the total number of
disability adjusted life years (DALYs) potentially saved by the project for each of the
interventions. The following tables summarize the results of the analysis for each of the two
scenarios.
Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
Total Potential   Net Present     Total    Impact on
Benefits:         Value:      Internal  the health of
Life of Project    10 year stream   Economic   the
5 years       of benefits and   Rate of   population
(US$ million)        costs       Retur
(US$million)
Scenario I: Benefits in       75.6             62.0         77%      1,687 Infant
tersm  of reduction  in                                             and maternal
infant  and  maternal                                               deaths averted
mortality
Scenario II: Benefits in      53.4             84.1         64%        130,000
terms of DALYs                                                        DALYs
averted
30



Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Snsitivity Analysis                      NPV                IERR
(US$ million)
Scenario I: Reduction in Infant and Maternal Mortality
Base Case                                         62.0               77.%
2-year delay                                      47.3                72
3-year delay                                      40.0                66
20% reduction in benefits                         41.8                53
40% reduction in benefits                         21.5                29
20% reduction in benefits and 2-year delay        3.5                4.0
Scenario II. Reduction in DALYs
Base Case                                         84.0               64.%
2-year delay                                      25.4                52
3-year delay                                      18.4                45
20% reduction in benefits                         59.4                47
40% reduction in benefits                         34.7                29
20% reduction in benefits and 2-year delay        20.7                50
Discount Rate
A discount rate of 12 percent was used for the analysis.
Assumptions
The analysis of the Dominican Republic Provincial Health Services Project considers the
following benefits: (i) direct economic benefits of a reduction in outpatient consultations and
hospital discharges resulting from reductions in morbidity; and (ii) indirect benefits resulting
from reductions in infant and maternal mortality (scenario I) and indirect benefits resulting from
the DALYs saved from package of infant and maternal health care services (scenario II).
In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers two basic elements: (i) the
investment costs of the World Bank project; and (ii) the investment and recurrent costs to be
incurred as a result of extended coverage of a basic package of services through the existing
network of public and private providers. The cost of providing the basic package, includes the
31



fixed and variable costs necessary to increase coverage of basic health services, such as
immunizations and prenatal care.
While the project would lead to an initial increase in services provided to the population as the
basic health package is deployed, it is expected that the preventive nature of the services will
eventually lead to a reduction in the demand for ambulatory and hospital care.  Given the
medium-to-long-term effect of these changes, the estimates presented in terms of reduced
morbidity are very conservative. The following table summarizes the estimated reductions in
morbidity of the 3.9 million inhabitants of the project regions.
Summary of Estimated Reductions in Morbidity
Area of Reduction                 Outpatient    Emergency   Hospital Discharges
Visits        Visits
% reduction   % reduction       % reduction
1. Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI)  31%          31%               0%
2. Acute diarrhea                   31%            16%              31%
3.. Intestinal Parasites            26%            12%               12%
4. Vaginitis                        26%            0%               40%
5. Other Causes                     15%            15%               15%
TOTAL                              17%           16%               16%
The estimates for the reduction in demand in each category are then paired with existing data
from the project regions to determine the total reduction in outpatient visits, emergency visits,
and total bed days that could be averted due to the project interventions. Total direct benefits are
then estimated by multiplying the average variable cost per consultation (outpatient and
emergency) and the average variable cost per bed-day by the total outpatient and emergency
visits and total potential bed-days averted, respectively. The costs per bed-day are based on a
detailed cost analysis carried out in the Dominican Republic for each of the categories of
avoidable morbidity.
To estimate the indirect benefits, two distinct scenarios are considered. The first scenario
evaluates the indirect benefits of the project in terms of the expected reduction in maternal and
infant mortality. The second scenario evaluates the indirect benefits in terms of the DALYs
saved.
The following table summarizes the expected impact of the project in terms of reductions in
infant and maternal mortality, as the basis for the project's expected indirect benefits.
2The additional costs of increasing the maternal and child health care services are reflected in the
investment costs.
32



Scenario I
Summary of Estimated Inidrect Benefits: Reductions in Mortality
0
2,356,014    57,722          369            20                   389
798,840     19,572          88            7                     95
IV
345,043     7,729           132            3                   135
vii
4019217     9,549           75             3                    79
TOTAL
PROYECTO         3,901,114     94,572         1,654          32                  1,687
Note/i: Number ofdeaths averted is based on maternal mortality of 229 per 100,000 live births per region.
In total, it is estimated that the project will save nearly 1,700 lives as a result of the reductions in
infant and maternal mortality. The reduction in mortality is taken as the base line assumption to
calculate the indirect benefits of the project. The estimates of reduced mortality are based on
conservative estimates that would reduce the levels of infant and maternal mortality in the
project's regions to levels equal to the regions not considered under the project. The estimated
number of deaths averted as a result of the project are shown in the above table. The discounted
life years saved attributable to these reductions are then converted to monetary terms by using
estimates of the discounted life time earnings lost from each death, as reflected by the use of
average wage levels for the poorest 40 percent of the population and the number of years of life
lost for each death.
Under the second scenario of indirect benefits, the analysis is based on detailed estimates of the
total number of disability adjusted life years (DALYs) potentially averted by the project for each
of the interventions. This analysis is based on the existing levels of coverage, the total number
of cases to be avoided under each intervention, and the expected effectiveness of the
intervention. The discounted life years saved attributable to these reductions are then converted
to monetary terms by using estimates of the discounted life time earnings lost from each death.
The discounted life time earnings gained through the reduction in mortality are then calculated
by estimating the age at death or onset of the disease and the discounted expected earnings as
reflected by the use of average wage levels for the poorest 40 percent of the population and the
number of years of life lost for each death.
33



Cost-Effectiveness
The total disability adjusted life years (DALYs) potentially saved through the project
interventions are based on a detailed cost-effectiveness studies carried out during preparation
(see Table below). It is estimated that the project would reduce the burden of disease by
approximately 130,000 DALYs, with over 60% of the reductions among the poorest populations
covered by the project. The average cost per DALY ranges from US$41 to US$4,000, with an
overall project cost per DALY of approximately US$314 and the majority of the interventions
falling into the range of US$41 to US$220. This is in line with the average cost per DALY
estimated in the World Bank's 1993 World Development Report: US$20 to US$350, as well as
other World Bank projects.
34



Summary of Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Total population in project areas (Regions 0,3,4, and 7) (1997):               3,901,115
PRENATAL CARE AND CHILD DELIVERY         95%          100%         5,465     RD$12,902,412     41,260           53%              21,662         RD$596
PREVENTION OF R. FEVER                   40%           85%        195,446    RD$57,303,911     86,106           80%              51,663        RD$1,109
INTEGRATED CARE FOR CHILDREN             40%          100%        379,434   RD$141,261,299     81,616           56%              45,705        RD$3,091
SEXUALLY TRANS. DISEASES                 40%           85%         3,128      RD$1,356,528       918            49%                337          RD$4,019
FAMILY PLANNING                          66%           90%         81,050    RD$35,296,131      17,879          63%               7,961        RD$4,434
IMMUNIZATIONS (EPI)                      39%           90%         56,388    RD$14,223,514       597            72%               359          RD$39,584
PREV. AND TREAT. CERVICAL CANCER         12%           80%         5,181     RD$80,565,467      5,378           40%               1,662        RD$48,464
PREV.AND EARLY DETEC.OF AIDS             50%           85%         11,216     RD$2,609,988      9,814           12%                824          RD$2,511
Per capita Cost of Package of Interventions RD$      88.43
Per capita Cost in US$*                               6.32
(1) Exchange Rate: I US$=$RD 14.00
(2) DALYs- Disability Adjusted Life Years
35



Fiscal Impact
Estimates of the sustainability of the project are based on an analysis of the recurrent costs of the
project generated by annual maintenance costs and the extension of the basic package to the
uncovered population in the four regions of the project. Upon project completion, the annual
recurrent costs will account for US$5.2 million per year, including the additional operating costs
generated by the investment, maintenance costs of 5% per year, and an annual depreciation of 10
percent per year for equipment. In addition, the analysis assumes an annual incremental costs for
extending coverage of US$25 million in the project's regions.
The total incremental costs of the project, and the extension of the basic package to the
uncovered population, are compared with the projected expenditure in the four regions of the
project and estimates of total health spending for the SESPAS and total central government
spending.
The assumptions include: annual health care spending increases of 6 percent per year, or 2
percent real growth, projected real GDP growth of 3.5% over the next 10 years, and public
spending constant at 14.5 percent of GDP.
Estimated recurrent expenditures are projected to reach a maximum of 8 percent of total SESPAS
spending, with similar levels of recurrent spending projected in each of the four regions. The
extension of the essential services to the uncovered population, however, would account for a
significant burden on the SESPAS finances, increasing the overall burden on public health
spending to nearly 25% in the four project regions. At the same time, the burden on central
government spending would remain in the range of 1% if the basic health package were extended
with an incremental cost of US$25 million per year. Therefore, the key to the sustainability of the
package of essential service would be directly tied to an increase in public health spending in the
four regions of the project or a reallocation of total health spending.
36



ANNEX 5
Dominican Republic Provincial Health Services Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
procurement
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Disbursem
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement Schedule (Table D)
37



TABLE A
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                         5.0               3.3                                    8.3
(2.0)             (1.4)                                  (3.4)
2. Goods
Equipment and              2.5               3.3                2.4                                   8.2
Supplies                  (2.0)             (2.6)              (2.1)                                 (6.7)
Pharnaceu-                 1.6               2.0                1.6                                   5.2
ticals and                (1.4)             (1.7)              (1.3)                                 (4.4)
Medical
Supplies***
3. Services
Systems                                                         12.5                                  12.5
Development/                                                  (11.9)                                 (11.9)
Other
Consultant
Services
/Training
Administrative                                                  2.2                                   2.2
(1.8)                                 (1.8)
4. Operational                                                                        3.8                 3.8
Costs
5. PPF                                                              1.8                                   1.8
(1.8)                                 (1.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NBF = Not Bank-financed
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
*Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies will be procured using Limited International Bidding (llB)
38



TABLE B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$1,000 equivalent)
=S                                                       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
Works                                    < 50       three quotation    SOE
50 - 500     NCB                First two
> 500       NCB               All contracts
Goods
Equipment and Supplies                < 50        Shopping          SOE
50-250       NCB                First two
> 250       ICB               All contracts
Pharmaceutical and                    <50         Shopping          SOE
Medical Supplies***                 50-250        NCB               First two
> 250       ICB               All contracts
Services
Consulting Services
Firns                                > 100        Bank guidelines   All
< 100       Bank guidelines   Review of TORs only
Individual                            > 50        Bank guidelines   All
< 50        Bank guidelines   Review of TORs only
Administrative
Consulting Services (individual)      > 50        Bank guidelines   All
< 50        Bank guidelines   Review of TORs only
Goods and Supplies                    < 50        Shopping          SOE
Operational Costs                       NBF
Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultant contract below the thresholds in the case of single source selection of firms,
assignments of critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising the original value above the threshold.
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NBF=Non Bank-financed
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
*Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies will be procured using Limited International Bidding (LIB)
39



Procurement of works, goods and services, as well as contracting of consultants with World Bank funds,
would be carried out in accordance with guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loan and IDA credits
(January and August 1996) and the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (January 1997). Most
procurement would be carried out at central level by the PCU, with support from a procurement agent.
The PCU would include a full-time procurement officer whose main responsibility will be to prepare
and: (a) submit to the World Bank all procurement documents which require World Bank's prior
review; (b) coordinate with selected procurement agent the procurement of goods and services at central
level; (c) coordinate and monitor procurement requests by the UEPs; and (d) prepare and submit to the
World Bank at the beginning of each calendar year a detailed procurement schedule. The appointment
of the procurement officer would be done in consultation with the World Bank. At project launch, the
World Bank will deliver a procurement workshop to present and explain procurement guidelines.
During appraisal, the Borrower agreed to adopt the World Bank's standard bidding documents for
project implementation.
Civil Works. The project would finance civil works to rehabilitate health care facilities at the provincial
and area levels. It is estimated that about US$8.3 million equivalent of the project's costs would be
allocated to civil works.
Goods. The project would finance equipment and supplies, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies to
support the delivery of maternal and child health care services, for a total amount estimated at US$13.4
million equivalent. Because of the special nature of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, they will be
procured using Limited International Bidding (LIB).
Consultant Services. The project would finance consultant services, including systems development and
other consultant services, information, education and communication services (i.e. media campaigns),
educational materials and training for teachers, health care professionals and community health workers,
for a total estimated at US$14.5 million equivalent.
At appraisal the Borrower presented an initial procurement plan for project implementation. During
annual review meetings the World Bank would review the procurement schedule for the following year,
including international or national tenders, as well as the number and estimated costs of the subprojects
to be financed under the loan.
40



TABLE C
Allocation and Disbursement of Loan
Civil Works                              3.4                  40% total expenditure
Goods (other than                         6.7               80% local expenditures and
pharmaceuticals and medical                                 100% foreign expenditures
supplies)
Pharmaceuticals and medical               4.4               80% local expenditures and
supplies                                                     100% foreign expenditures
Systems development for                  9.3                          100%
Health Services Providers and
other's consultant's services
Training                                  2.6                         80%
Project Administration                    1.8                         80%
PPF Refunding                             1.8                         100%
41. ,.*...
. ....~ . .....* ....*..*...* ..*..*..*. . ~ ~ :..:..:....  *.*.   .... . .   M *~**:.::::.
41



TABLE D
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million equivalent)
FY 98
Jun-98              0.77                     0.77
FY 99
Dec-98              0.77                     1.55
Jun-99
FY 00
Dec-99              1.5                       3.1
Jun-00              1.5                       4.6
FY 01                            2.6                       7.2
Dec-00              2.6                       9.8
Jun-01
FY 02                            4.2                       14
Dec-01              4.2                      18.3
Jun-02
FY 03                            4.2                       22.6
Dec-02              4.2                      26.9
Jun-03
FY 04                             1.6                      28.5
Dec-03              1.6                      30.0
Note: Figures may not add up to totals because of rounding.
Retroactive Financing. The World Bank would finance contracts retroactively for eligible expenditures
incurred up to 12 months prior to Loan signing up to an amount of US$2.0 million. These funds would
be used to finance eligible subprojects approved in line with the eligibility and appraisal criteria
acceptable to the World Bank.
Documentation. The PCU would present full support documentation for all withdrawal applications
with a contract value of US$250,000 or less for goods (other than pharmaceuticals and medical supplies;
for works under contracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent, other than the first two contracts for
works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than US$50,000; for services of consulting firms under
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and for services of individual consultants under
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. The PCU would submit withdrawal applications of
smaller contract values having a statement of expenditures (SOEs), and would maintain the respective
supporting documents for World Bank review.
Special Account. The SESPAS would open a Special Account at Banco Central with all initial deposit
of US$2 million equivalent. This would correspond to about four months of expenditures required
42



under the project. The PCU would forward to the World Bank the necessary documentation for
disbursement (SOEs or full documentation).
Financial management. accounting. and auditing. The PCU would be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to the World Bank. No later than six months after the end of its fiscal year, the PCU would
submit to the World Bank copies of audit reports containing the auditor's opinion on (a) project
accounts, including statement of expenditures and the Special Account.
43



ANNEX 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)       Actual
Preparation, Appraisal and        126,723
Negotiations                                                                 l
B. Project Schedule               AlUl
Time taken to prepare the project  11 months
First Bank mission
(identification)                  08/18/96
Appraisal mission departure       10/13/97
Negotiations                      10/29/97
Planned date of effectiveness     11/30/98
Prepared by:                Comisi6n Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud,
and LCSHD
Preparation assistance:     Japanese Grant 029364
PPF 310-0-DO
Bank Staff and Consultants who worked on the project include:
Patricio Marquez (Task Manager), Oscar Echeverri, Carlos Manzi, Fernando Sacoto, Evelyn Pesantez,
Willy de Geyndt, David Varela, Monique Jouanin and Sonia Rodriguez-Crane.
Initial preparatory studieg conducted under the management of:
Karen Cavanaugh with the support of Jeff Ruster and Richard Moore.
Local Counteart Team:
Alberto Fiallo Billini, Carlos Amor6s Baez, Tirsis Quezada, Miriam Rodriguez, Virgilio Rodriguez,
Fatima Guerrero, Pura Guzman, Amarilis Sanchez, Bruno Calder6n and Fernando Rojas.
er Reviewers: Xavier Coil (LCSHD); Mariam Cleason (HNP); and Willy De Geyndt (HNP,
Consultant). Comments received by Julian Schweitzer (LCSHD); Orsalia Kalantzopoulos (LCC3C);
Efraim Jimenez (LCOPR); H. Weindler (LOAEL); and Edgardo Favaro, Pilar Maisterra, Maria Donoso-
Clark, John Panzer (LCC3C).
44



ANNEX 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Draft Subproject Preparation Guidelines
C. Draft Project Operational Manual
D. Policy Letter
E. Economic Analysis (James Cercone)
F. Project Costs and Financing Plan (Carlos Manzi, Carlos Amoros and Amarilis Sanchez)
G. Organizationa Arrangments (Diagram)
H. Terms of Reference for Plaza de la Salud
I. Informe de Situaci6n Ambiental del Manejo de Residuos Hospitalarios para la Ficha Ambiental del
Proyecto (Carlos Amor6s)
J. Informe Ambiental y Social (IDB Document)
K. Results of the Political Mapping and Stakeholders Assessment
L ESU-96 Utilizaci6n de Servicios de Salud y Satisfacci6n de los Usuarios (SESPAS/GPP)
M. Others:
* Epidemiological and Health System Assessments and Policy and Institutional
* Reform Proposals.
* Salud Visi6n Futuro (Equipo Nacional)
* Asesoria en Recursos Humanos del Sector (Bernard Couttolenc)
*  Propuesta de Acci6n para la Reforma en Area de RR.HH. en Salud (Pura Guzmn/lMaria Diaz)
*  Propuesta de Reorganizaci6n de la SESPAS (Fatima Guerrer/Candida Gil y Maritza Arbaje)
* Reordenamiento y Reestructuraci6n Institucional de SESPAS/IDSS (Hugo Salinas Portillo)
* Descentralizaci6n de SESPAS (Joachim Hahn/Virgilio Rodriguez)
*  Sistema Informaitico Hospitalario (Juan Andres Zavala)
* Reordenamiento del Sistema Financiero de la SESPAS (Luis Rodriguez)
*  Sistema Suministros del Sector Salud (Rafael Solis)
* Modernizaci6n Recursos Humanos SESPAS e IDSS (Richard Moore)
* Analisis de la Reforma e Seguridad Social en Salud en Repuiblica Dominicana (Patricia Mintz)
* Entitades de Negociaci6n Colectiva (Patricia Mintz)
* Piloto de Sistemas Integrados de Salud en Santiago y la Romana (Patricia Mintz)
* Piloto del regimen Subsidiado de Seguridad social en Salud (Patricia Mintz)
* Proceso de Extensi6n de Cobertura de Salud del Sistema de Seguridad Social (Arismendi Diaz)
* Transici6n Institucional del Sistema de Seguridad Social (Arismendi Diaz)
* Analisis de Viabilidad para la Creaci6n del Fondo Nacional de Salud (Nelcy Paredes)
* Plan Integral de Beneficios para el Sistema de Seguridad Social (Nelcy Paredes)
* Modelo Financiero para el Sistema de Seguridad Social (Nelcy Paredes)
* Revision del Modelo de Viabilidad Financiera (Nelcy Paredes)
* Estudios de Servicios Pre-pagados en Republica Dominicana (IEPD)
* Situaci6n Entidades Pre-pagas de Salud en Repiiblica Dominicana (Arismendi Diaz)
* Asistencia Tecnica Aseguradores y Proveedores (Arismendi Diaz)
45



* Articulaci6n de Igualas Medicas (Arismendi Diaz)
* Encuesta Demografica y Salud (ENDESA/96) (CESDEM/Otros)
*  El Financiamiento del Gasto Puiblico en Salud (Miguel Ceara)
* Documento Base para el Marco Legal y Regulatorio del Nuevo Sistema de Seguridad Social (Emilio
Guerra)
* Analisis de la Base del Sector Salud (Emilio Guerra)
* Propuesta Modernizaci6n del Sistema Hospitalario (James Fymier)
* Proyecto de Gesti6n Aut6noma de Hospitales Publicos (Tomas Tenza)
* Estudio Factibilidad Compra-Venta Servicios Clinicos de Apoyo en Hospitales Publicos (Bernard
Couttelenc)
* Plan de Acci6n para el Sub-Componente de Garantia (Jorge Hermida)
* Estudio de Articulaci6n-Contrataci6n entrel el Gobierno y las ONGs para la provisi6n de
* Servicios B6sicos de Salud (Sean Bradley)
* Dominican Republic Health Sector Modernization and Restructuring (DR-0078) Loan Proposal.
Document of the Inter American Development Bank.
46



ANNEX 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominican Republic
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in Operations Portfolio
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
Loan/Credit            Fiscal Year            Borrower    Purpose               Bank           IDA   Undisbursed  Closing
date
Credits
3 Credits(s)                                                                                   22.08
closed
Total Number of Credits =0                    _                         __[ 0.00                           0.00
Loans                                                                                                      0.00
21 Loans(s)                                                                     444.91
closed                                       _
MO500                   1991                              HWY                79.00                     6.85       12/31/97
MAINT V                                                 I
38750                   1995                          IRRIG LAND             28.00                    27.70       12/31/03
& WATERSH                                                l
39510                   1996                             BASIC               37.00                    37.00       06/30/01
EDUCATION  _
41270                   1997                           NATIONAL              7500                     75.00       12/31/01
_ HWY. PROJ
Total Number of Loans = 4                                                       219.00                    146.55
Total***                                                         663.91         22.08 [
of which repaid                                                  301.10         5.73
Total held by Bank & IDA     [                                   362.81         16.35
Amount sold                       0.00
of which repaid                   0.00    1
Total Undisbursed                                                                         146.55
47



Dominican Republic
IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Oct-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1991/94                DTC                     6.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                   Hotel Flamenco          4.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96                Smith-Enron            24.29    0.00    6.00   41.09   24.29    0.00    6.00   41.09
Total Portfolio:                   35.22    0.00    6.00   41.09   35.22    0.00    6.00   41.09
Approvals Pending Commitment
Lian   Eaft   Quad   Paric
.**  _     ..0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
48



Annex 10
Dominican Republic at a glance                                                                82S
Ldl Law
POVum  anid SOCUL                              Dewuidoen   _bnAmuu   niddt-
mPi_lc   1OU&       _noem      DOewopmentd oneud'
PopulaIn mid-1S96 (mNo*n                             7.9       485    1,125
GNPpercaplb 1996 (USS)                             1,570      3,710    1,750              Ufe expectancy
,GNP196 (bWnsUS$                                     12.5      1,799    1,967
Avelug umumil grewil% " M04
PopuIlaton4 '                                         1.8       1.7     1.4     GNP                            Gme
Laborli"s 0                                          2.8        2.3     1.8      per   I            >primary
Meat     I   "   I paloest _tava_b h rbb  t1989)                                 capta                      enrollment
Poveit: hemdco  Irndex (% Vfpxida                     21
hUben pop don%    i o lopWuho                         65        74       56
Uhe keotan    atb bihr &*)                            71        69       67
Inhnt m ot     flowhrl, e how                         37        37       41              Ac        to oewater
Cild maln%onfo (Xf d.nw      r                        10         ..
Aoseuto soe Wat (% of pop.1n)                         79        80       78
* Webroy (% ofpop*On age 15+)                         18        13        .Dw.*an Pepub4
Grow p1imwy enrollment (% of scaf-op  p*Mn)           103       110      104
Mate                                               103         ..    105                  gI        _      gOp
Female                                             104                101
Kf mCONOMIC RATIOS mod LONT11  lUNWO
1Is m    116       136     1966
GOP ,Abuoa USS)                              3,6      4.5      1Zo      13.1     Economic nitlo
Grow domesc          D lrwasbnmn4DP         24.5     20.4      24.2    22.6               p
Exports ofgood andasKioeGWP                 27.7     29.5      27.4    26.1             _
Gossn dosstc wingDP                         22.2     151       24.4    19.5
Grs ndiorns sVGDP                           20.2     15.9      27.8    22.7
rurent oooutbalanncG1P                      -2.0     -4.5       2.0     42
Intest pwymeOnt P                            0.9      3.1       1.9      1.4     Savnu wIngesbnt
Total dbtCP                                 18.7    78.0       34.6    31.4
70ot deb.t arvedcpos                        10.4    225        16.6    14.1
P;wdvalued dettWP.                                             9Z.0
Pres"ent valte ofdobiexports                  9.       .        2.3       ..Ir Wtdneb ss
1576t   Iowa 1#          1     1    1s9746
(ww  annuaY th)                                                                           Donm*an Repubib
GDP                                 3.5      3.5      4.7       7.0      3.0              Lowrm lra4ne group
GNP per capia                       0.4      2.2      2.9       33       1.7
Exports of gw and servloe           7.2     9.2       .3        4.9      3.6
STRUCMotlhd ECONOMY
1076    1966       lo6     1s6
(% ofGDP)                                                                      Growth rts of output mid Inmtbnent p4
Agdluihge                                   21.5     19.7      15.4    15.3   4o
Indusby                                     31.6    256        29.0    2a1
Mantlectring                              20.9     13.6      17.5    17.0    2 0 I         N
SeBvioms                                    4689     545       55.6    56.5     c
Privateconsumpton                           716      76.9      68.9    737    zo             R                        Is
General go ment consumption                  62       6.0       67       6.8              _;O  GDP
Imports d goods and services                30.0     34.8      27.2    29.5
19750619s"           16    lo6
(avawe annualgrowth)                                                             Growth rstaofxporte and Imports (%)
Agrute                                       3.3      0.7       1.2      9.6     2.
Indunby                                      2.4      1.0       1.5      7.0     2   T     A
M anufactr                                 2.3      1.5       1.5      2.9     le.
Service                                      4.2      5.5       6.9      6.5     10.
Private consumpton                           3 3     2.8        6.5      9.8      r                   P.
General government conwmptlcn               11.0      0.0      -1.6      5.8           51   02   It   04             f
Gross domestic instmnot                     42       2.5        0.0      1.5    -'a
Imports d goods and sekves                   4.6     3.8        22       6.4
Gmos nafonal product                         2.7      4.2       4.8      4.9              -              n
Note: 1996 data ame prpilmiry edi    Figures Iiatios ae lbr year other than thoe specifed.
The damonds dsw bur key Indicao  In the country On bld) compared with 1 Income-group avea IH date are mIing, the damiond wl
be moompla.
49



Dominican Republic
1975   N15         109      1996
D * mcp~tce.                                                                      InflotbIn (%)
(% Mawe)                                                                         o0
nsumer prIes                                 145     37.5       1Z4       6.5    so _
ImplicIt GDP dedo                            17.0    38&9       1Z5       5.0    40
20.
tX of GOP)                                                                       o10
Currentrevenue                                                  16.6     152             01   62   93    U        N    n
OCwent buWet balae                             ..       .        6.8      5.0                -GDP(.           P
OveteIl su  ddIdalit                           ..      ..        0.9     -1.5
TSAE
(mus U$)1                                                                         Exportand Import levels(mill. US)
Tolal exports (ob)                              .     738       743       718     4o0i1
sugar                                        ..    159         132      169
Gold                                                 14         45       49      3  x
Manufadures                                   ..
Total Importl (cdo                                   1128      2,786    3,17'6 li)
Food                                         ..       48
Fuel and energy                                      507       606      777
CaplW goods                                          217
Expoitprloelndex(1987=100)                               .       125      118           so  DI   2   93   U   06   M
Import price index (1967=100)                   .       ..       145      153                *Expod      a Inport
Termsof tade (1987=100)                        .        .        86        78
ALANCE of PAYMENTS
19T5    1NS        1995     199S
(nimo  USS)                                                                       Current account balance to ODP rallo %)
Expotso goods and seile                     1,010    1,323     3,258    3,424
Iworts of goods and services                1,009    1,560     3,419    3,871     4
Resource babnce                                1     -228       -161     447      2
Net Income                                  -113    -319        -461     -449
Net currentb tansfe                           39      356                 867
Cutrent acoount balance,                                                         -2..
belore dikll ceptal transler                -73    -200        247      -29
Financirn Ienm (net)                          66      291       -133       21
Changesinrno                                   7       -90 re14 8er
Reserves irdudn gold (mNL USS)               125      346        702      735
*onvesion rte (aWJSS)                         1.0      3.1      13.3     1a7
EXTERNAL DET and RESOURCE FLOWS
176      IS5       195      19Slo
(mhao  USS)                                                                       ComposIton or total debt, 1S99 (mill. US)
Toal debt outstanding and dIsbused           673    3,502      4,171    4,119                         A
lB1D                                        20      152        283      244                 G      A
IDA                                          8       21         17       17                 629    2        C
Total debtNservce                            108      302        540      482
IBRtD                                        4       22         60       56D
IDA                                          0        0                                 1                     785
832.378
Compoalton d net roewooelt os f
Ofical gurts                                 9       97        49        35
Offial crdifto                              34      146        -85      -41
Prvate credtom                              61       20        -24      -23
Foeln dret  hlmmt                           64       36        199      140
Portfdo equlty                               0        0          0        0                         1E12
World Bank pogram
Commllrents                                  8       42         28       37      A-lIBRD                     E - flatral
DIsburuement                                 3       17         36       18      B-IDA    D-Olhsrmut5Mleral  F-P PMet
Prlncipal ym snet                            2       10         40       38      c- IMFOSm
Netfitk                                      0        7         -5      -19
Interest payment                             2       12         21       19
Netbansfer                                   -1      -5        -26      -39
Oewopet EaonomIc                                                                                                   8&28197
50



IBRD 19599R
~~:DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
2O~~~~~~~~~~~~  AT    AN    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-.Infernatioriol boundaries
jips,n"                                                              Province boundaries
Monte crit   ~        --_         -/V-                                                                       NatIonal copifal
<-,Puerto Plato                                     Province capitals
Pa 10C, MOA         R IS TI                                                                                   Main rondo
~~~~ai~~~odo                I         P~~~~~~UFRTO   P/A TA      osnployn                        -.----Railroads
ajabon                                                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA                                                  o Rfe
GO  - t- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I --BcsdYm
5            7 BAA'ARODRIGU A         SanTE JSTeESn9Ares
q1~~~~~edernales ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     e ..Maa
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cs
PEDE//NALES ~~~~~                                                                                                                           netsnAoSAMAN
manci~~~~~~~~COA
H  A   I T I                                               '31~-                                                                                                                     I 
ELIAS PINA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'.PNAA                                                                                                               vauuL
I.   .   ~~~~                        4      '                                .             I                                                                             CnLOM8iO~~~~~~~I   C 
A/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 901



