Report No. PIC5049
Project Name                  Dominican Republic-Health Services and Financing
Region                        Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                        Health
Project ID                    DOPA7015
Borrower                      Government of the Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency           Secretariat of Public Health and Social
Assistance (SESPAS)
Date PID Prepared             April 18, 1997
Expected Appraisal            August/September, 1997
Expected Board                December 1997
Country and Sector Background: The Dominican Republic has a rich
endowment of natural resources, abundant supply of hard-working
labor, a favorable geographical position and a dynamic and
experienced private sector. During 1996, the country experienced
continued dynamic growth of the tourism sector; a robust expansion
of telecommunications; a sharp upswing in construction activity
(owing to a sharp increase in government investment outlays); and a
large increase in agricultural production due to exceptionally
favorable weather. Output climbed more than 7%, inflation
decelerated to 5%, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments registered a slight deficit and international reserves
declined marginally. This performace was achieved despite the
prolonged presidential electoral process. In contrast, value added
in the Free Trade Zones stagnated while the production of the
domestically-oriented manufacturing sector remained listless.
Fiscal plicy was kept relatively tight and the deficit of the non-
financial public sector amounted to about 1.3% of GDP.
Health indicators in the Dominican Republic are poor. Fifty-nine
of every thousand infants die before the age of one; life
expectancy at birth is 67 years old. For every 100,000 children
born, two hundred women die in childbirth. These problems reflect
precarious living conditions among the poor. Yet the heath sector
is not poised to respond effectively. Public spending on health is
low. Equity is a serious concern, as a large share of Dominicans
have no effective access to health care. Institutional arrangements
for policy formulation, financing and service delivery are weak and
disorganized. Nearly 30 percent of Dominicans do not have effective
access to health care. In principle, the Secretariat of Public
Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) should provide health care to
70 percent of the population. Yet with the 43 percent of public
health spending it controls, it provides services to about 45
percent of the population. The Social Security Institute controls
47 percent of health spending and serves about 6 percent of the
population. The private sector serves about 20 percent of the
population.
Important services are neglected, resources are allocated
inappropriately and efficiency is low. Only half of Dominican



children are protected against vaccine-preventable illnesses. Only
thirty percent of pregnant women receive prenatal care. Urban
hospitals absorb 70 percent of the SESPAS budget, yet they operate
at 50 percent occupancy rates, far below efficient levels. Primary
facilities and preventative services receive under 7 percent of
SESPAS's budget.
The Government of the Dominican Republic is formulating an
initiative for health care reform. The emergent program ("Salud
Vision de Futuro: Elementos para un Acuerdo Nacional") aims to
improve health by providing the entire population with access to
high quality basic services in an efficient and sustainable way.
The transformed health system would be led by SESPAS, draw on the
strengths of both public and private sector providers, place strong
emphasis on primary health care, and concentrate public resources
on subsidizing care for the poor.
Project Objectives: The proposed project would constitute the first
phase of a medium and long term sector reform process, and would be
complemented by a parallel operation financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). It is anticipated that reforms would start
from basic changes that would, nonetheless, have significant impact
in expanding basic health care coverage and improving the quality
and technical and allocative efficiency of health care services
while more radical reforms are analyzed, designed and test-piloted.
Specifically, the World Bank-financed project would have three
objectives; (i) improve the health and nutrition status of 2
million poor; (ii) expand access to a program of essential services
of good quality; and (iii) implement institutional reform and
modernization processes, including the modernization of SESPAS's
managerial and operational capacity.
Project Description: The project is expected to have three
components: (i) a Basic Health Services component to finance
innovative arrangements for the delivery of basic services to
under-serviced population groups, such as the formation of
autonomous public hospitals or provider networks or the
strengthening of HMOs and NGOs; (ii) a Health Financing component
to develop mechanisms for improving the financing and resource
allocation within the health system and for local contracting on a
pilot basis and (iii) an Institutional Reform and Development
component to prepare SESPAS to formulate and promote health
policies and to regulate health care.
The proposed project would (i) concentrate in selected peri-urban
and rural areas; (ii) design and provide a program of essential
interventions, both public health interventions, such as
immunizations, and basic clinical interventions, and management of
the sick child, pre-natal, child delivery and post-natal
interventions, including family planning services; (iii) design and
implement service provision agreements between SESPAS and
decentralized, autonomous, and pluralistic service delivery
networks (a public/private mix); (iv) develop new resource
allocation mechanisms to link payment to output in order to replace
historical budgetary allocations; and (v) prepare and implement an
institutional development program at SESPAS. To these ends, the
proposed project would support: (i) the rehabilitation and
- 2-



reequipping of health facilities and the development of human
resources; (ii) the implementation of cost accounting and financial
performance systems, as well as quality assurance systems,
including hospital accreditation; and (iii) the legislation,
functional and organizational changes to strengthen the
policymaking, financial, administration and regulatory functions of
SESPAS and local level agencies.
Project Financing: The projected cost of the first five-year stage
of the reform program is US$ 60 million. The projected cost of the
proposed project is US$ 30 million. The proposed World Bank loan
would finance US$ 24 million (80 percent) and the Government of the
Dominican Republic would provide US$ 6 million (20 percent) in
project financing. The IDB is expected to provide and additional
US$ 24 million in parallel financing with an additional Government
contribution of US$ 6 million.
Project Implementation: The strategy for project preparation and
implementation will be participatory and emphasize broad
consultations. While SESPAS will coordinate project implementation,
efforts will be made to insure active involvement by
representatives of IDSS, HMOs, private sector providers, NGOs,
local government and users. Project implementation will emphasize
small-scale pilot activities and incremental changes. Support for
the reform is being coordinated with other donors. Emphasis is made
on the need to integrate the recommendations of the different
studies by planning well the interactive sequence and process of
ongoing and future activities in order to produce coherent
proposals for the broad health reform project and the two projects.
Project Sustainability: This project has a high potential for
sustainability because it supports a program which is based on a
process of broad consultations over several years. In addition, the
proposed project would help rationalize sectoral spending by
reforming the organization and financing of public health
facilities and increasing operational efficiency, which are likely
to bring cost-savings over the medium term.
Lesson from Past Operations: The key lessons are (i) technical
assistance and health facility rehabilitation projects should be of
defined scope so as to permit adequate preparation, focused
implementation and supervision; (ii) borrower commitment to reforms
is essential to develop a sense of project ownership in affected
institutions; and (c) there should be periodic project evaluations
to permit adjustment in the design and implementation arrangements.
Government Commitment: Overall, the Dominican authorities while
conscious of the health sector's structural deficiencies and the
need to address them soon, have adopted a cautious but transparent
approach in formulating the proposed project. Institutional
capacity of the state is weak at both the national and sub-national
levels and will limit the scope and speed of reforms. Political
consensus building seems to be a key feature of said approach both
for defining required reforms and test-piloting alternative
solutions. Local authorities agree with the conceptualization of
- 3 -



the proposed project and understand that it would constitute the
first phase of a long-term reform process.
Poverty Category: It is expected that this project would be
included in the Program of Targeted Interventions because it aims
to reallocate a greater share of public financing to benefit the
poor. Mechanisms for targeting the poor would be in the Health
Financing and Basic Health Services components.
Environment Aspects: The proposed project would have no significant
environmental risks.
Program Objective Category: The category for this project is
Poverty Reduction and Human Resource.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 2, 1997.
- 4 -



