Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4272-DO
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Health Services Project)
between
DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 9, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4272-DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 1998, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by means of Presidential Decree No. 484 of 1996 (Decree No. 484-96) 
the Borrower established the Commission for the Reform and Modernization of the State, 
such Commission to be responsible for developing a global framework and action plan to 
coordinate and oversee the reform and modernization efforts of the Borrower’s 
departments and agencies;
(B) 
by means of Presidential Decrees No. 613 of 1996 (Decree No. 613-96) and 
No. 312 of 1997 (Decree No. 312-97), the Borrower established provincial development 
councils (Provincial Development Councils) and determined their organization and 
operation, such Councils to comprise provincial and municipal authorities as well as 
community representatives, and to be responsible for promoting social participation in 
planning, administering and implementing development programs at the provincial and 
municipal levels, as well as for strengthening public and private sector collaboration 
in such programs;
(C)
by means of Presidential Decree No. 313 of 1997 (Decree No. 313-97) the 
Borrower established a Presidential Commission for supporting provincial development, 
such Commission to be responsible for the promotion of rapid social assessments for 
provincial subprojects formulation and the systematization and dissemination of 
provincial development experiences;
(D)
by means of Decree No. 308 of 1997 (Decree No. 308-97) the Borrower 
Page  2
established the executive commission for health sector reform (the Executive 
Commission), such Commission to comprise representatives of the Borrower’s Technical 
Secretariat to the Presidency and the State Secretariat for Public Health and Social 
Assistance (SESPAS);
(E)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(F)
the Bank  has received a letter dated August 12, 1997, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve the 
reform and modernization of the Borrower’s health sector (the Health Reform and 
Modernization Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of 
such Program; and
(G)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development Bank 
(IDB) a loan in an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately $65,000,000 (the IDB 
Loan) to assist in the financing of part of the Project, on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB (the IDB 
Loan Agreement);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  3
(a)
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.08 
of this Agreement; 
(b)
“Central Bank” means the Borrower’s central bank (Banco Central de la 
República Dominicana); 
(c)
“Eligible Provinces” means the provinces in the territory of the Borrower 
set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(d)
“Executive Coordinator” means the coordinator referred to in Section 3.03 
(b) of this Agreement; 
(e)
“Executing Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on January 1 
and ends on December 31 of each year; 
(g)
“Health Services Provider” means any public or private health services 
provider operating in the territory of the Participating Provinces (as hereinafter 
defined), including SESPAS and IDSS (as hereinafter defined) networks of health 
centers and local hospitals; 
(h)
“IDSS” means the Borrower’s Social Security Institute (Instituto 
Dominicano de Seguridad Social); 
(i)
“Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
“Participating Province” means an Eligible Province that enters into a 
Participation Arrangement (as hereinafter defined); 
(k)
“Participation Arrangement” means any of the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Performance Monitoring Indicators” means the Project’s performance 
monitoring indicators set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower 
to the Bank (Supplemental Letter); 
(m)
“Peso” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(n)
“Project Coordinating Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter from the Bank dated October 
15, 1996, countersigned by the Borrower on November 1, 1996;  
(p)
“Provincial Executing Units” mean any of the units referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(q)
“Provincial Subproject” means a specific health services project in the 
areas set forth in Part A of the Project to be carried out by a Participating Province 
utilizing part of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million Dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
Page  4
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a  special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in single 
currency for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
Page  5
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Executive Coordinator is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project through the Participating Provinces, and Parts B and C of 
the Project through the Project Coordinating Unit, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, technical, public health and decentralization practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable 
the Participating Provinces to carry out Part 
A the Project; and
(ii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere 
with the carrying out of Part A of the Project by the 
Participating Provinces.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Operations Manual and the applicable Annual Action Plan, with due 
regard to the Performance Monitoring Indicators.
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets during Project 
implementation and make available promptly as needed in Pesos, the counterpart funds 
required for Project implementation.  
(e)
Not later than thirty days after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall:
(i)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
an account 
in a bank acceptable to the Bank and under terms and 
conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, for purposes of depositing the 
counterpart funds referred to in 
paragraph (d) above; and
(ii)
make an initial deposit of $200,000 equivalent in the account 
referred to in 
subparagraph (i) above.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, at all times until completion 
of the Project, a project coordinating unit will perform the following functions and 
responsibilities, under the overall supervision of the Executive Commission:
(i)
coordinating and monitoring overall Project implementation, in 
Page  6
consultation with 
SESPAS; 
(ii)
coordinating the provision of the technical assistance under Part 
C of the 
Project for the design of organizational, financing  
and service delivery 
arrangements and instruments to be 
utilized by the Participating Provinces;
(iii)
coordinating the provision of technical assistance for the 
development of 
sectoral policies to be implemented by Health 
Services Providers under Part B 
of the Project;
(iv)
preparing the reports and plans referred to in Sections 3.07 
through 3.10 of 
this Agreement; and
(v)
administering the withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan and 
related records, 
accounts and audits,
all pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and the applicable Annual Action 
Plan.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Coordinating Unit is, at all 
times during the execution of the Project, headed by an executive coordinator assisted 
by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications, experience, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through the Project Coordinating Unit, shall 
enter into arrangements with Eligible Provinces providing for the participation of 
such Provinces in the execution of Part A of the Project, such arrangements to contain 
provisions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia:
(i)
the establishment and operation, until completion of the 
respective Provincial 
Subprojects, of a unit responsible for the 
carrying out of such Subprojects, 
under the supervision of the 
corresponding Provincial Development Council;
(ii)
the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Loan, on a grant 
basis, to the 
Participating Province for the financing of 
the Provincial Subprojects;
(iii)
appropriate provisions for the operation and maintenance, in 
accordance with 
adequate technical standards, of any goods and works 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and the training of 
the respective Province’s personnel; 
and
(iv)
provisions whereby the Project Coordinating Unit may suspend the 
participation 
of the respective Province in case of non-compliance 
by such Province under 
the corresponding Participation Arrangements.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Participation 
Arrangement in such manner as to: 
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank; 
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Participating Provinces shall enter into executing agreements 
with Health Services Providers for the purposes of carrying out Provincial 
Subprojects, or parts thereof, in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Participating Provinces exercise their 
rights in relation to each Executing Agreement in such manner as to: 
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank; 
Page  7
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06.  By no later than one month after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall hire and thereafter retain, until completion of the Project, procurement 
specialists with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, such 
specialists:
(i)
to assist the Project Coordinating Unit in all procurement 
activities to be 
carried out under the Project; and 
(ii)
to train such Unit's staff and the staff of the Provincial 
Executing Units on 
procurement matters relevant for the Project.
Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30 and December 31 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, starting not later than December 31, 1998, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request on the progress achieved in the execution of the Project during 
the preceding calendar semester.
Section 3.08. (a) In conjunction with the progress report to be furnished to the 
Bank not later than December 31 of each year of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, an annual action plan for the 
following calendar year, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, such plan to include:
(i)
a description of the Project annual specific targets;
(ii)
the schedule of the tasks associated with each such target;
(iii)
terms of reference for all the tasks so scheduled;
(iv)
the resources required to complete such tasks;
(v)
key Project execution benchmarks; and
(vi)
quality and impact indicators of the Project’s outputs.
(b)
Upon the Bank’s approval, the Borrower shall carry out such Annual Action 
Plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.09.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Monitoring 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than three years after the Effective Date, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by not later than one month after the date set 
forth in subparagraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in such subparagraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  8
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such Year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  9
that the Health Reform and Modernization Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out or that the Borrower or any of the Participating Provinces will be able to 
perform their respective obligations or undertakings under the Participation 
Arrangements;
(b)
Decrees No. 484-96, 613-96, 312-97, 313-97 or 308-97 shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the Borrower’s ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement;
(c)
the IDB Loan shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1998, 
or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of 
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement;
(d)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDB Loan 
shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the IDB 
Loan Agreement; or
(B)
the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof;
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under the IDB Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate 
funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that an operations manual, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
adopted by the Borrower, such manual to set forth the guidelines for Project 
implementation, including adequate provisions for preparing and implementing 
Provincial Subprojects, as well as technical and environmental norms and 
administrative, budgetary and procurement procedures to be followed by the 
Participating Provinces; and
(b)
that a model Participation Arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank, shall 
have been adopted by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date June 9, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  10
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Secretario Técnico de la Presidencia is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia
Palacio Nacional
Avenida México
Santo Domingo
República Dominicana
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Juan Temístocles Montás 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn 
President
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  11
(1)
Civil works
  3,400,000
40%
(2)
Goods (other than
  6,700,000
100% of foreign
pharmaceuticals and
expenditures and
medical supplies)
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Pharmaceuticals and
  4,400,000
100% of foreign
medical supplies
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(4)
(a) Systems
  7,800,000
100%
developments for Health
Services Providers
(b) Other consultants'
  1,500,000
100%
services
(5)
Training
  2,600,000
80%
(6)
Project Administration
  1,800,000
80%
(7)
Refunding of Project
  1,800,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
TOTAL
 30,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
“Training” means expenditures incurred for: (i) domestic and 
international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; and (ii) training 
materials; and
(d)
“Project Administration” means expenditures for the operation of the 
Project Coordinating Unit and the Project Executing Units including: (i) office 
supplies; (ii) services rendered by public utilities; (iii) staff of such Unit; and 
(iv) domestic and international travel and per diems of its personnel required for the 
execution of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $2,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (6) in the table in 
paragraph 1 of the Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement; and (b) any 
Provincial Subproject unless the respective Participation Arrangement has been entered 
into.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods (other than pharmaceutical and medical supplies) under contracts 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent;
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent, other than 
the first two contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
Page  12
$50,000;
(c)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent;
(d)
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; and
(e)
Training and Project Administration. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the health status of the Borrower’s 
population, particularly among poor pregnant and lactating women and children under 
five years of age, in selected peri-urban and rural areas of the Participating 
Provinces, through actions aimed at:  (i) expanding health care coverage to the 
poorest population groups, by pilot-testing new health care organization, financial, 
and managerial models; (ii) improving the quality of integrative health care services 
already provided to the poor; (iii) strengthening policy-making and management 
capacity of the Participating Provinces, as well as of the Health Services Providers; 
and (iv) fostering community participation in the Borrower’s health system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Provincial Subprojects
Carrying out of Provincial Subprojects in the following areas:
1.
essential health care interventions, centered around maternal and child care 
activities, aimed at reinforcing the capacity of the Borrower’s health programs to 
provide appropriate and timely care, particularly for low-income mothers and children, 
on an ambulatory and in-patient basis, including maternity wards and neonatal units of 
selected Health Services Providers;
2.
design and pilot testing of new health care organization, financing and 
managerial models to create integrative delivery systems; 
3.
institutional strengthening to reorganize and enhance the capacity of the 
Participating Provinces, as well as that of the Health Services Providers, to program, 
implement and monitor health services, including the design and implementation of 
information systems that link such Providers in order to facilitate continuous 
improvement in service delivery and health outcomes for the Borrower’s population; 
4. 
training and continuing education of the Borrower’s health personnel to raise 
clinical and managerial capacity, so as to assist in the improvement of the quality of 
health care and in the decentralization of health care organization and financing; and 
5. 
monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of provincial experiences.
Part B:
Policy Development and Studies
Carrying out of policy and institutional reform studies, comprising diagnostic 
and design stages, to further decentralize the Borrower’s health care management 
system, and to promote community participation in such system, including the following 
areas: 
1.
strategies and mechanisms for personnel management, such as recruitment and 
compensation schemes; and
2.
corporatization studies for Health Services Providers and health care networks, 
focusing on medical support, demand and supply, staffing, management and ownership 
arrangements.
Page  13
Part C:
Project Administration
Management and supervision of overall Project implementation by the Executive 
Commission, the Project Coordinating Unit and the Provincial Executing Units.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2002
775,000 
October 15, 2002
800,000
April 15, 2003
825,000 
October 15, 2003
850,000
April 15, 2004
875,000 
October 15, 2004
900,000
April 15, 2005
925,000 
October 15, 2005
955,000
April 15, 2006
985,000 
October 15, 2006
     1,015,000
April 15, 2007
     1,045,000 
October 15, 2007
     1,075,000
April 15, 2008
     1,110,000 
October 15, 2008
     1,140,000
April 15, 2009
     1,175,000 
October 15, 2009
     1,215,000
April 15, 2010
     1,250,000 
October 15, 2010
     1,285,000
April 15, 2011
     1,325,000 
October 15, 2011
     1,365,000
April 15, 2012
     1,410,000 
October 15, 2012
     1,450,000
April 15, 2013
     1,495,000 
October 15, 2013
     1,540,000
April 15, 2014
     1,585,000 
October 15, 2014
     1,630,000
TOTAL:
    30,000,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
Page  14
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower .
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, and goods which the Bank agrees can only 
be purchased from a limited number of Suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines: 
(a)
goods (other than pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) estimated to cost 
less than $250,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $4,100,000; and
(b)
works estimated to cost less than $500,000 but more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods (other than pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) estimated to cost 
$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an amount 
not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
Page  15
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods (other than pharmaceuticals and 
medical supplies) estimated to cost $50,000 or more; and (b) the first two contracts 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $50,000 but less than 
$500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for activities under Parts A and B of the Project, in tasks that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  16
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  17
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Executing Agreements
1.
When presenting a Provincial Subproject to the Bank for approval, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank, in form satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)
an assessment of the proposed Participating Province’s implementation 
capacity, an appraisal of the Provincial Subproject, and a list of the Health Services 
Providers identified to enter into Executing Agreements, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(b)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Participating Arrangements and 
the Executing Agreements; and 
Page  18
(c)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.
Executing Agreements shall be entered into on terms whereby the Participating 
Province shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the 
Borrower and the Participating Province, including the right to:
(a)
require the Health Services Provider to carry out and operate the 
corresponding part of the Provincial Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with appropriate technical, financial, managerial and environmental 
standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods, works and consultants’ services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Provincial Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Borrower and 
the Bank, if the Borrower and the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, 
works, plants and construction included in the Provincial Subproject, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Health Services Provider shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound health practice; and (ii) without any 
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable 
to the Participating Province to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Bank or the 
Participating Province shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Health Services Provider and 
to the benefits to be derived from the Provincial Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Health Services Provider to be paid 
out of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Provider to perform its 
obligations under the corresponding Executing Agreement.
