Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20505-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.6 MILLION
(US$2.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
DISTANCE LEARNING PROJECT
June 8, 2000
Operational Quality and Knowledge Services (AFTQK)
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 10, 1999)
Currency Unit = F CFA
1 F CFA = US$ 0.0016
US$ 1 = 630 F CFA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP              Agence d 'Execution des Travaux d 'Interets Publiques
(Contract Management Agency)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CED                 Centre d 'Enseignement a Distance (Distance Learning Center)
c.i.f.              Cost, insurance and freight
DLC                 Distance Learning Center
ENAM                Ecole Nationale d 'Administration et de Magistraturel
(National School of Administration)
FY                  Fiscal Year
GDLN                Global Distance Learning Network
GOS                 Government of Senegal
IDA                 International Development Association
ISG                 Information Solutions Group
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCBS                Least Cost Based Selection
LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO(s)              Nongovernment Organization(s)
NS                  National Shopping
PAR                 Procurement Assessment Review
PMR                 Project Management Report
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
QCBS                Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA                  Special Account
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SOE(s)              Statement of Expenditure
VSAT                Very Small Aperture Terminal
WBI                 World Bank Institute
Vice President:            Callisto Madavo
Country Director:          Cadman Atta Mills (Acting)
Sector Manager/Director:   John A. Roome
Team Leader:               Marc Lixi



SENEGAL
Distance Learning Center Project - LIL
CONTENTS
A.  Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy ...............................................                       ,     .     2
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project ......................... .........3
4. Learning and innovation expectations ..............................................3
C. Project Description Summary ....................................................4
1. Project components ....................................................4
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................                           ,        .       5
3. Monitoring and reporting arrangements .................................7
D. Project Rationale ...............................7
E. Summary Project Analysis .............................7
1. Economic ............................7
2. Financial ...8.........................8
3. Technical ...8.........................8
4. Institutional ............................8
5. Social ...............................8
6. Environmental assessment ...............................8
7. Participatory approach .............................8
F. Sustainability and Risks .............................9
1. Sustainability .............................           .         .         .          .        .         .        .        9
2. Critical Risks ...9.........................9
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................                                                               10
G. Main Loan Conditions ............................                                                                                     10
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................                                                                                10
2. Other ...                                                                                                                  10



H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                                                                   11
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                                                                   12
Annexes
Annex  1.              Project Design  Summary  ..................                            .......................              13
Annex 2.               Detailed Project Description  .........................                            ................    15
Annex 3.               Estimated Project Costs ...............                            ..........................    18
Annex 4.               Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .......................................   20
Annex 5.a              Financial Summary .........................................    22
Annex 5.b              Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities ................. 25
Annex 6.               Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..............................  26
Table A.               Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ...............                              .............    26
Table B.               Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ................ 28
Table C.               Allocation  of Loan Proceeds .........................................                                  29
Annex 7.               Project Processing Budget and Schedule .....................................   31
Annex  8.              Financial Management Arrangements ........................................   32
Annex 9.               Documents in Project File .........................................                                         35
Annex  10.              Statement of Loans and Credits .........................................                                   36
Annex 11.              Country at a Glance .........................................                                               38
Annex 12.a             Technical Specifications .........................................                                          40
Annex 12.b             DLC - List of Technology Equipment ........................................ 42
Annex 12.c    TOR for Distance Learning Information Technology Staff ................. 43



Senegal
Distance Learning Project - I
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
AFTQK
Date June 8, 2000                                   Team Leader: Marc Lixi
Country Director: Cadman Atta Mills (Acting)        Sector Manager/Director: John A. Roome
Project ID: P069198                                 Sector: EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Education; Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes [x  No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [xl Credit      [] Grant       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $2.1
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined     [    Multicurrency     [ ] Single currency
[ ] Standard Variable  [X] Standard IDA     [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:            Standard
Service charge:                0.75%
Government                                                0.12              0.00              0.12
IDA                                                       1.17              0.93              2.10
Other PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                          0.90              0.40              1.30
Total:                                                    2.19              1.33              3.52
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC SERVICE (Minist6re de la Fonction Publique, du Travail et de l'Ernploi)
(project oversight and coordination)
.~~~~~~~~~~ .
Estimated disbursement 'Bank FY/US$M 
Annual       0.5          07           0.5          0.2          0.2
Cumulative       0.5          1.2          1.7          1.9          2.1
Project implementation period: 2000-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 10/04/2000              Expected closing date: 04/30/2004
Implementing agency: Distance Learning Center (Centre d'Enseignement a Distance)
Contact person: Monsieur Mamadou Diop, D61egue au Management Public / Mor Seck, Manager, CED
Address: Primature / Centre d'Enseignement a Distance (ENAM), Blvd. Dial Diop, BP 12997
Dakar-Colobane
Tel: (221) 637 65 22 / 631 49 72   Fax: (221) 822 97 64      E-mail: morseck88@hotmail.com



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the project is to increase access to high-quality, up-to-date and cost-effective
training for public and private decision-makers and implementers to increase their capacity to design, plan
and manage economic and social development policies. A secondary objective is to establish a center of
excellence in the region for distance learning and exchange of information and experience. The project
will accomplish these objectives by providing access to high-quality training and information on latest
advancements through distance learning using state-of-the-art conununications technology.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators will measure progress towards achievement of project objectives, including the
effectiveness of Distance Learning Center (DLC) management. These indicators, which measure the
sustainability and effectiveness of the DLC, and its comparative advantage over other types of training
delivery, include: (a) demand for and utilization of DLC services (both local and regional); (b) relevance
and quality of courses; and (c) ability to cover operating expenses through fees (100% of operating
expenses to be covered by revenue generation by the 4th year of project implementation). Over the long
term, the project is expected to improve the capacity of decision-makers to formulate, implement and
monitor economic policy and sector strategies, which could be measured by the productivity of senior
civil servants, quality of policy formulation and implementation, timeliness of economic and sector
strategy implementation and effectiveness of community organizations and private firms. These latter
indicators will be measured by an annual survey of trainees and those with whom they work, and through
Bank sectoral reviews, including Country Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPR).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17269-SE           Date of latest CAS discussion: January 29, 1998
The two main objectives of the current CAS are to ensure continued rapid and sustainable economic
growth and to maintain social sustainability of the reform program. The first objective will be achieved by
(i) helping to sustain macroeconomic stability, (ii) improving the environment for an efficient working of
the private sector, (iii) alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks, and (iv) ensuring long-term sustainable
management of the environment. The second objective will be achieved by (i) making the provision of
education and health services more widely accessible at a better quality, and (ii) directly focusing on
social protection. The Global Distance Learning Center would directly contribute to improving the
environment for an efficient working of the private sector by building more effective capacity through in-
service training of professionals in the public and the private sectors. It thereby addresses a particular
concern that is highlighted in the CAS, which is a lack of good governance and an effective civil service.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Since the start of structural reforms in 1994, the Government of Senegal (GOS) has realized the need to
build capacity in the public and private sectors. The GOS has underlined the importance of capacity
building by supporting the following efforts: (i) commissioning of a national capacity building
assessment and formulating a subsequent strategy and (ii) establishing a national capacity secretariat in
the Ministry of Finance. These initiatives were taken after a number of older capacity building initiatives
had less than the envisaged impact. In the past, capacity building programs have generally worked very
well in the private sector (both for and not for profit). However, in the public sector the lack of adequate
stakeholder participation prevented an efficient implementation of the programs. The GOS initiatives are
envisaged to address this lack of stakeholder participation by calling for renewed concerted efforts on all
sides.



- 3 -
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will help the Government benefit from the experience of distance learning and develop a
broader program to improve the cost-effectiveness of professional and continuing education through the
use of modern technologies, as a key element in its capacity-building strategy. The project addresses
capacity building in an integrated way by providing access for government officials and private sector and
community leaders to the latest training and global knowledge and experience in priority areas of modern
economics, finance and management of development. A larger number of managers and staff will be able
to be trained through distance learning and will be able to apply what they have learned immediately,
increasing the impact of policy reforms on economic growth and social development. The project will
also open new opportunities to local managers, civil society and the education community by facilitating
access to up-to-date information, as well as interaction with international experts in economic
development and market-economy management.
The project is designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to test the sustainability of distance
learning in the Senegalese context. It will assess the viability of cost-recovery mechanisms in higher
education and the willingness of donors to invest training budgets in this new mode of training delivery.
It will test the effectiveness of distance learning as a tool to deliver high-quality and cost-effective
training and its impact on policy reform and implementation. Finally, the project will help define
appropriate arrangements for productive cooperation between the public and private sectors in the training
and retraining of professionals. As many parameters cannot be known at the outset (demand, acceptance
and effectiveness of distance learning), the LIL approach will allow these variables to be tested and
corrections to be made during project implementation.
The project fits within and benefits from the World Bank's Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN).
The World Bank Institute (WBI) and the Information Solutions Group (ISG) have developed distance
learning courses and the technologies by which these courses can be disseminated. The proposed project
is one of ten pilots to develop distance learning capacities in Africa and Latin America. As such, it takes
advantage of product development, knowledge of technological choices and bulk procurement offered by
the GDLN to facilitate project start-up and provide needed support throughout implementation. Due to
the time constraints imposed by the bulk procurement for all pilot centers, project preparation was fast-
tracked. For this reason, certain project components were implemented during preparation, with
financing through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.
The project builds on the following lessons learned from existing professional training systems in
Senegal, including the African Virtual University: (a) in-country training is more cost-effective;
(b) training technology should be flexible to respond to country context, and supply and demand for
training; (c) long-term business plans for training centers should be developed sooner rather than later;
(d) sustainability of distance learning centers must be built from the beginning through targeted
marketing; (e) a pipeline of relevant course content must be developed well in advance to respond quickly
to demand and facilitate marketing.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[x] Economic [x] Financial [x] Technical [x] Institutional
[ ] Social [I Environmental  [ I Participation  [] Other
Economic: The economic viability of distance learning is to be established. The cost-effectiveness
analysis undertaken during project preparation showed that distance learning costs per day and per trainee
were two to four times lower than the current system (see Annex 4). It is expected that the project will
demonstrate an economically viable method of delivering high-quality training to replace either training
missions or import of trainers.



-4 -
Financial: The appropriate mechanisms to ensure financial viability of distance learning are to be
defined. Financial viability hinges on market development and cost recovery. The project will finance a
decreasing share of DLC operating costs during the first three years of implementation to allow for
gradual market development and changes in training practices and financing.
Technical: Distance learning equipment needs to be operated and maintained adequately. The same
technology installed in the Bank's Resident Mission in Senegal generally functions well, but with some
disruptions in service mainly due to power grid failure. The technology was chosen in part for
compatibility with the Bank's GDLN to fully benefit from the expertise and capacity gained through
development of this network (technical capacity of ISG and training capacity of WBM). Future equipment
upgrading and replacement would, to the extent possible, seek compatibility with domestic and Bank
communication systems.
Institutional: The Distance Learning Center will be an autonomous entity run on a commercial basis.
Arrangements will be sought for close partnership with the public and private sectors, the donor and
global education communities, as well as civil society. The DLC is expected to strengthen Senegalese
public, private and community organizations by providing wider access to a greater range of training for
the leaders and staff of these organizations. If successful, the DLC could become a regional center of
excellence for training, providing training to professionals in neighboring countries.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The project comprises two main components: (i) retrofitting and equipment of the Distance Learning
Center; and (ii) support for DLC establishment and operation.
Component I consists of building facilities on the site of the National School of Administration (Ecole
Nationale d 'Administration et de Magistrature - ENAM) for the establishment of the DLC, to provide a
videoconference room with a 30-person capacity, a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations
(hardware, software and Internet hook-up), a technical and administrative center, and installation and/or
upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring. It also comprises equipment of the DLC including purchase
and installation of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite communication terminal), video,
telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and classroom furniture, and various other
equipment for DLC operation and security.
Component 2 aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become financially viable. It includes:
(a) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first three years of operation;
(b) purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services; and (c) technical
assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation and management
effectiveness, and establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit.



1. DLC  Retrofitting and Equipment  Telecommunications      1.08    31.5        1.08       51.9
L_L I ee oP& Informatics
a. Civil Works                                              0.36     10.5       0.36       17.3
b. Network access equi Dment                                 0.20     5.8       0.20        9.6
c. Videoconferencing equipment                              0.30      8.8       0.30       14.4
d. Office funiture/other equipment                           0.22     6.4       0.22       10.6
2. Support for DLC Establisgment and   Institutional         2.34    68o5       1.00       48.1
Operation                           Development
a. Consultant services/training                              0.24     7.0       0.24       11.5
b. Operating CoStS                                           2.10    61.5       0.76       36.6
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
tIL Implementation Period: 2000-2004
Implementing Agency: The project will be implemented by the Distance Learning Center, estabxshed as
an autonomous nonprofit agency, and housed in the National School of Administration (ENAM). It will
be considered a "public interest" organization in recognition of its role in promoting advances in policy,
culture and technology aconta wide range of actors.
The DLC will be govened by a Board, comprising Tepresentatives of govemment ministries, Senegalese
academic insutonions, the private sector and civil society, and chaired by an official elected from among
the members.
Daily management of the Center will be entrusted to a Director selected on the basis of proven experience
in enterprise management or management of similar educational entities. The Director will be assisted by
a team consisting of a technician (computer specialist with telecommunications knowledge), a facilitator/
trainer, an experienced account  and an office assistant.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The Ministry of Public Service will be responsible for project
coordination and ensuring the participation of the public and private sectors and donor cogm.unity in
project monitoring and training development activities (through the DLC Board).
TFhe DLC Board will oversee project implementation, through its executive secretariat. The Board is
charged with monitoring DLC rnanagement and deciding DLC developmecnt policy, approving the annual
business plan and program of activities, assessing the Center's financial statements and providing
recommendations to help the Center become financially self-sustaining.
Project Implementation: The project will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So that distance
learning activities can begin as soon as possible after project effectiveness, project preparation included
establishment of the DLC (legal procedures, formation of the DLC Board, recruitment of Director and
staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room, computer room,
administrative offices, etc). Project preparation activities were handled by the former Ministry of State
Modernization with the assistance of AGETIP, for works, equipment, institutional aspects and studies.



- 6 -
Upon taking office, the Director will prepare a business plan based on a survey of training requests from
the public and private sectors. The business plan, to be submitted for DLC Board and IDA review and
approval, will include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be
provided (lectures, seminars, other), source and programming of training, rates for different types of
training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy. The
business plan will be updated and submitted for IDA and DLC Board review and approval on an annual
basis. To this effect, the implementing agency will continue to assess demand for training, identify and
program appropriate training courses, market the services of the Center and increase its visibility in
Senegal and abroad.
Project Financing: To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account (SA) will be established by
the Borrower in the name of the DLC of Senegal in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The DLC will operate this SA.
The IDA credit will finance DLC retrofitting and equipment and consultant services and training related
to DLC start-up. Over the project implementation period, the IDA Credit will also finance, on a
decreasing basis, DLC operating expenditures. As the market for its services develops, the DLC is to
mobilize an increasing share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the
project implementation period. It is expected that the DLC will cover approximately 20% of operating
expenses in the first year, 40% in the second year, 60% in the third year, and be completely self-financing
as of the fourth year of project implementation.
Financial Management and Reporting (See Annex 8): As the implementing agency for this project,
(the DLC) is a new entity, the project will begin disbursement arrangements through a Special Account
and SOEs. A Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) compliant system will be installed from the
beginning of the project. The DLC will produce quarterly activity reports. After one year of project
implementation, as the DLC staff will be familiarized with LACI-compliant system tools, the financial
management system and reporting system will be reassessed to shift from the SOEs-based disbursement
system to a LACI-compliant disbursement system.
Accounting: The DLC will have the responsibility of the project's overall financial management. It will
have to maintain both the project's accounts and its own set of accounts as an autonomous nonprofit yet
revenue-earning entity. The DLC will be equipped with a computerized financial management system
appropriate to the scale and nature of the project and capable of recording and reporting the project's
operations (by components, sub-components, activities, expenditure categories, regardless of origin of
funds), as well as its own operations. The computerized financial management system will be multi-
currency and include the following modules which should be integrated: general accounting, cost
accounting, budgeting, contract management, fixed assets register, preparation of withdrawal
applications, reports generating. A manual of administrative and financial procedures will be developed
for the project.
Auditing: The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports
of reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each financial
year of the project. The selection of an auditor acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Terms of
reference for the recruitment of the auditors have been drafted and agreed on with the Government of
Senegal.
Reporting: Two sets of financial statements will be required: the project's separate financial statements
and the DLC's (as an autonomous agency) financial statements. The project's separate financial
statements will comprise: (i) a statement of Source and Application of Funds for the project during the
current financial year, and cumulatively from the start of the project, and (ii) a balance sheet. These two



- 7 -
financial statements will be prepared annually. In addition, the DLC agreed during negotiations to submit
a quarterly report using the LACI models including financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule
and output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. Due its legal status as an association,
DLC is required for its own operation to follow the West African Accounting System, commonly called
SYSCOA, under which a set of financial statements must be prepared annually.
Procurement (See Annex 6): Goods and Works financed by the IDA credit will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant
services financed by the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999. Civil works contracts will be procured in accordance by
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using proposed Bank-approved bidding documents. These works
are expected to be carried out by local contractors. Equipment contracts for the supply of office furniture
and other equipment of the DLC worth more than US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate of
US$200,000 will be procured by AGETIP through National Competitive Bidding using Bank standard
bidding documents Procurement of goods for the Network access equipment and goods to equip the
videoconference room (including computers of the DLC) will be procured by the Bank (ISG departmnent)
(for compatibility reasons with the Global Distance Network) on behalf of the Borrower on a sole source
basis (an agreement to this effect has been signed by the Government of Senegal and IDA). Satellite
Bandwidth Rent contract will be procured on a sole source basis (one supplier selected under the Bank
umbrella). Supply of small quantities of office supply and goods (a car, an electricity generator) for
Center operation, estimated at US$50,000 or less per contract, will be procured through national shopping
in accordance with Bank procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$30,000.
3. Monitoring and reporting arrangements:
The Director will submit an initial business plan for DLC Board and IDA review and approval. An
annual business plan will be developed and submitted by November 1 of each subsequent year to the
DLC Board for review and approval and to IDA for review. The financial component of the business
plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify, among other things, loan fund proceeds and the
capital mobilized by the DLC itself. This should accord with the project financing plan specified on
page 5.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the DLC Board within 30 days of the end of each
quarter.
D: Project Rationale:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
[x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[ ] Other (specify)
The cost-effectiveness analysis consists of comparing the cost of delivering training through the proposed
DLC to the current training and course delivery system for the "target market" (high-level govermment
officials and private sector and community leaders). The average DLC training delivery cost amounts to
US$1 10/student-day as compared to US$296/student-day for the current system for training of at least ten
days.



-8 -
2. Financial: (for LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable. See also Annex 5)
NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
The DLC is expected to attain financial sustainability by its fourth year of operation, by generating
enough revenue, through user fees, to fully cover operating costs and equipment replacement. Financial
simulations determined that the financial break-even point will be achieved when the average rate of
installed capacity reaches more than 60%. This corresponds to about 5000 person-days of training per
year, or that 15% of high-level (Category A) government officials take five days of training per year. For
the first three years, DLC revenue is expected to cover 20%, 40% and 60% of operating costs for each
successive year. The cost of training through the DLC is expected to be $100 per participant per day,
which is lower than the cost of training delivery under current systems in Senegal (approximately $300
per participant per day).
3. Technical:
As the technology involved is quite advanced, the project will provide DLC technical support staff with
intensive training in operation and daily maintenance. World Bank information technology staff in the
Senegal Resident Mission, experienced with this and similar technology, will also be available to provide
support. Equipment maintenance will be contracted out to qualified firms in Senegal or representatives of
the equipment suppliers.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The DLC was established during project preparation as an autonomous agency,
governed by a Board made up of a broad stakeholder representation. Project preparation activities
ensured that the DLC would be established and operational by project effectiveness. The project will
gradually scale up the activities of the DLC to allow it time to increase its capacity. In addition, project
component 2 is dedicated to providing assistance to the DLC to ensure that it can handle its functions
adequately.
b. Project management: The project will be implemented and managed by the DLC. The Ministry of
Public Service will be responsible for overall project oversight and coordination.
5. Social:
not applicable
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category   []A    [ B   [X] C
The project will have no environmental impact.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The DLC Board will comprise representatives of the public and private sectors, education and vocational
training communities, civil society and donors interested in supporting the distance learning initiative.
The Board was designated through a consultative process as part of DLC establishment during project
preparation. The Board will give guidance on DLC marketing and development policy, oversee
implementation of its business plan and ensure that training activities and curricula are consistent with the
country's priority.
Primary beneficiaries will be senior civil servants, private sector managers, the education community
(especially those providing education to ministries), NGOs, community groups and the media. Training



-9 -
courses will be designed with the active participation of beneficiaries through annual market research
conducted by the DLC Director. Trainees from the public and private sectors and civil society will
benefit from access to a wider selection and higher quality of cost-effective training than is currently
available. Educators will benefit from being able to present courses to a larger audience and to learn from
their trainees about the Senegalese experience and context.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders include institutions and individuals currently providing training to the target group.
This includes institutes in Senegal, institutes outside of Senegal and individual trainers. Many of the
institutions involved (such as the African Virtual University, the University of Senegal, etc.) have been
consulted to ensure that there is no duplication of efforts and to coordinate actions. Many of these
institutions (especially those abroad) will be providing training through the Center. They will be
consulted by the DLC management team to determine course content and scheduling to accommodate
expressed demand.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex I)
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to training of        M       Government commitment to use and pay for
professionals in public and private sectors         30% of DLC capacity over the first 3 years.
and civil society.
Availability of resources for training.     S       Resources built into the Government budget
and donor-financed project.
Availability of Global Distance Learning    M       WBI courses, at least, will be provided;
Network training courses and relevance to           market study will fine tune the supply of
local needs, particularly courses offered in        training from other institutions to give the
French.                                             broadest range.
ENAM interference and abuse of DLC          S       DLC will enter into an agreement
facilities.                                         (Memorandum of Understanding) with the
ENAM to clearly define the circumstances
and manner in which ENAM may use DLC
facilities.
Reliable management of satellite equipment.  M      Bank will assure initial management and
will assist DLC in selecting a reliable and
cost-effective satellite manager.
Reliability of the technology.              M       The DLC will be under the Bank's
technology umbrella.
Appropriate equipment operation and         M       The project will provide intensive training
maintenance.                                        for technical staff; maintenance will be
contracted out to a qualified contractor.
Management team capacity.                   M       A competitively selected, highly-qualified
and business-oriented manager, with a
proven track record, will be hired.
Other institutions' cooperation and         S       Other institutions will participate in the
willingness to pay (private sector, donors,         DLC Board; marketing campaigns will be
etc.).                                              carried out by the management team.



- 10-
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Other training institutions (both domestic and foreign) may oppose the competition, particularly given the
high degree of technology and cost-effectiveness of the training. During project preparation, the
University of Senegal was consulted and supports the project. If competition does occur, it will stimulate
the DLC management team as well as competitors to provide better service to consumers. The Bank has a
large and proactive role in project preparation and implementation, but this is justified by its experience
and contacts in Global Distance Learning, the economies of scale resulting from bulk procurement of
distance learning equipment and its knowledge of latest technologies. The Bank is providing this
assistance at no cost to the Borrower.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* Memorandum of understanding signed between the Distance Learning Center and the ENAM
specifying the relation between the institutions and the terms for use of DLC facilities by the ENAM
community.
*  DLC Director and key personnel (technician, facilitator and financial officer), with skills and
experience satisfactory to IDA, hired.
*  Project Implementation Manual adopted by the Center's Board and the subsidiary agreement signed.
* An adequate financial management system satisfactory to IDA is in place.
*  DLC first-year business plan submitted for IDA review before its adoption by the Center's Board.
The plan is to be prepared by the Director upon his recruitment and is to include: management and
development policy for the Center, course programming, video-seminars and other services to be
provided, identified real training demand, the Center's pricing policy, willingness and ability to pay
for training by identified clients, provisional budget and financial statement for the first year.
* Auditor, with appropriate skills and experience, hired in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
*  Annual DLC business plan (program of activities, annual budget and provisional accounts, including
replacement/rehabilitation expenses) submitted for IDA review two months before the beginning of
each fiscal year, and adopted by the DLC Board by December 15 of the current year.
*  DLC retains a Director with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
*  DLC retains staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
*  Commitment by the DLC to use its net cash flow to renew Center equipment that has become
obsolete or that needs reconfiguration/updating.
*  Commitment by the Government to utilize at least 30% of its capacity over the first three years for the
training of public sector staff (funding to pay for such services could come from each ministry's
training budget or from projects which include activities to build the management and planning
capacities of government officials).



- I1I -
* Commitment by the Center to reserve at least 30% of space in its training courses for public sector
staff.
Financial:
* Commitment by the DLC to cover 20%, 40% and 60% respectively of operating expenses (excluding
depreciation) for the first three years of the project from Center revenues, sufficient to ensure that the
Center will at least break even by its fourth year of operation.
Auditina:
*  DLC Quarterly Activity Report submitted to the DLC Board and IDA within a month of the end of
each quarter.
*  DLC Management Evaluation Report submitted to the DLC Board and IDA within three months of
the end of each fiscal year.
*  Financial Audit Report of the Center's accounts submitted to the DLC Board and IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ ] 1. b) Not applicable.
[X] 2. The procurement documents for the first six month's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding documents that will be
used for ongoing procurement during the project has been established.
[X] 3. The LEL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



- 12 -
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Marc Lixi
Sector Manager/Director: John A. Rome
by Florent    eh
Country Director: Cadman Atta Mills (Acting)



- 13 -
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:                Sector / country Reports: (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve the perforrnance   *Productivity of senior civil    Specific surveys to be  Access to knowledge and
of private and public sector  servants.                     conducted every two    inforrnation is transforrned
professionals.            *  Quality of policy forrnulation    years.             into better policies and
and implementation.                                 improved performance by
*  Timeliness of economic and                           public, private and
sector strategy implementation.                     community actors which
*  Effectiveness of commnunity                          have a positive impact on
organizations and private firms.                    poverty alleviation.
Follow-on Development
Objective:                *  Number of public and private    DLC Annual Report.   Adequate supply, quality
Mainstream the use of        professionals trained (Yr 1:                         and relevance of training
distance learning as an      1000 person-days of training;                        courses.
ongoing tool to increase     Yr 2: 2500 person-days of
access of public and         training; Yr 3: 3750 person-                         Absorptive capacity of
private sector professionals  days of training; and Yr 4:                         trainees.
to global innovations and    5000 person-days of training).
information.              *  Number and variety of
organizations using DLC.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact Indicators:      Project Reports:      (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                *  Training cost less than        DLC Annual Report.   Trainee organization
Increase access to high-     $1 10/day.                                          willingness and ability to
quality, up-to-date and   .  Distance learning facility     Annual audit report of  pay.
cost-effective training for  utilization rate (60% by       the Center.           Acceptability of distance
public and private           Year 3)                                              learning to public, private
decision-makers and                 . DLC operating cost/income                   and community trainees.
implementers to increase     ratio (1.0 at Year 4)                                Regular availability of
their capacity to design,    ratio(   atvYer 4).                                  relevant courses and
plan and manage economic  *  Number of providers of GDLN                          convenience of scheduling
and social development       courses (increase by 5 per                           for trainees.
policies.                    year).
Output from each component:  Output Indicators:             Project Reports:     (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Distance learning     *  Distance learning facility     DLC Annual Report.   Government willing to
facilities extensively used  utilization rate (60% by                             contract out continuing
to train decision makers,    Year 3).                       Annual audit report of  education.
private sector managers   *  Number and variety of         the Center.            Technology works reliably
and community leaders.       organizations using DLC.                             and is accepted by trainees.
.  Number of public and private                         Willingness and ability to
2. Viable cost recovery      professionals trained.                               pay by trainee
plan in place and         *  DLC self-financing: 20% in                           organizations.
operational.                 Year 1, 50% in year 2, 75% in                        Relevance of GDLN
Year 3 and 100% in Year 4.                          training to country demand.



- 14 -
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each component)  Project Reports:        (from Components to Outputs)
components:                                                                              Donors willing to allocate
1. DLC Retrofitting and     US$1,088,050                         Quarterly Reports.      part of training budgets to
Equipment.                                                                               project.
Management team is
2. Support to DLC Start-up  US$2,335,529                                                 business oriented.
and Operation.                                                                           Course content relevant to
local needs.
Participating institutions
willing to cover part of
training costs.
Private sector willing to
cooperate.



- 15 -
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.1 million
Distance Learning Center Retrofitting: This component comprises:
(a) building facilities on the site of the ENAM for establishment of the DLC, including:
(i) a videoconference room with a 30-person capacity;
(ii) a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware, software and Internet hook-up);
(iii) a technical and administrative center; and
(iv) mechanical outfitting such as installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring.
(b) equipment of the DLC, including
(i) a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite communication terminal);
(ii) video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment;
(iii) office and classroom furniture; and
(iv) various other equipment for DLC operation and security.
Project Component 2 - US$2.3 million
Support for DLC Operation: This component aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become
fmancially viable. It includes:
(a) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first three years of operation;
(b) purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services; and
(c) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation and
management effectiveness, and establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit.
Project Implementation Framework
Implementing Agency: The project will be implemented by the Distance Learning Center, established as
an autonomous nonprofit agency and housed in the ENAM. It will be considered a "public interest"
organization in recognition of its role in promoting advances in policy, culture and technology among a
wide range of actors.
The DLC will be governed by a Board, comprising representatives of the Ministries of Public Service,
Finance and Education, Senegalese academic institutions, the private sector and civil society (cultural
associations, the media, etc.), and chaired by an official elected from among the members.
Daily management of the Center will be entrusted to a Director selected on the basis of proven experience
in enterprise management or management of similar educational entities. The Director will be assisted by
a team consisting of a technician (computer specialist with telecommunications knowledge), a
facilitator/trainer, an experienced accountant and an office assistant.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The Ministry of Public Service will be responsible for project
coordination and ensuring the participation of the public and private sectors and donor community in
project monitoring and training development activities (through the DLC Board).



- 16-
The DLC Board will oversee project implementation, through its executive secretariat. The Board is
charged with monitoring DLC management and deciding DLC development policy, approving the annual
business plan and program of activities, assessing the Center's financial statements and providing
recommendations to help the Center become financially self-sustaining.
Project Implementation: The project will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So that distance
learning activities could begin as soon as possible after project effectiveness, project preparation included
establishment of the DLC (legal procedures, formation of the DLC Board, recruitmnent of Director and
staff) and preparation and equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room, computer room,
administrative offices, etc). Project preparation activities were handled by the former Ministry of State
Modernization with the assistance of AGETIP, for works, equipment, institutional aspects and studies.
These activities have been funded through a Project Preparation Facility advance. In addition, the Bank,
through its Information Solution Group, will provide assistance and expertise to procure, install and test
videoconferencing equipment.
Upon taking office, the Director will prepare a business plan based on a survey of training requests from
the public and private sectors. The business plan, to be submitted for DLC Board and IDA review and
approval, will include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be
provided (lectures, seminars, other), source and programming of training, rates for different types of
training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy. The
business plan will be updated and submitted for IDA and DLC Board review and approval on an annual
basis. To this effect, the implementing agency will continue to assess demand for training, identify and
program appropriate training courses, market the services of the Center and increase its visibility in
Senegal and abroad.
For the first year of project implementation, most training courses will be selected from those offered by
the World Bank Institute through its Global Distance Learning Network. However, over the first year, the
DLC management team will identify and establish contacts with a variety of other training institutions
capable of providing training over the GDLN. Over subsequent years, the DLC will match demand for
training to the most appropriate supplier institution, both in terms of course content and schedule
availability.
Project Financing: To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account will be established by the
Borrower in the name of the DLC of Senegal in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. The DLC will operate this Special Account.
The IDA credit will finance DLC retrofitting and equipment and consultant services and training related
to DLC start-up through a PPF advance. Over the project implementation period, the IDA Credit will also
finance, on a decreasing basis, DLC operating expenditures. As the market for its services develops, the
DLC is to mobilize an increasing share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency
within the project implementation period. It is expected that the DLC will cover 20% of operating
expenses in the first year, 40% in the second year, 60% in the third year, and be completely self-financing
as of the fourth year of project implementation.
Financial Management and Reporting: (See Annex 8) As the implementing agency for this project
(the DLC) is a new entity, the project will begin disbursement arrangements through a Special Account
and SOEs. A LACI-compliant system will be installed from the beginning of the project. The DLC will
produce quarterly activity reports. After one year of project implementation, as the DLC staff will be
familiarized with LACI-compliant system tools, the financial management system and reporting system
will be reassessed to shift from the SOEs-based disbursement system to a LACI-compliant disbursement
system.



- 17-
Accounting: The DLC will have the responsibility of the project's overall financial management. It will
have to maintain both the project's accounts and its own set of accounts as an autonomous nonprofit yet
revenue-earning entity. The DLC will be equipped with a computerized financial management system
appropriate to the scale and nature of the project and capable of recording and reporting the project's
operations (by components, sub-components, activities, expenditure categories, regardless of origin of
funds), as well as its own operations. The computerized financial management system will be multi-
currency and include the following modules which should be integrated: general accounting, cost
accounting, budgeting, contract management, fixed assets register, preparation of withdrawal applications,
reports generating. A manual of administrative and financial procedures will be developed for the project.
Auditing: The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports
of reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each financial
year of the project. The selection of an auditor acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Terns of
reference for the recruitment of the auditors have been drafted and agreed on with the Government of
Senegal.
Reporting: Two sets of financial statements will be required: the project's separate financial statements
and the DLC's (as an autonomous agency) financial statements. The project's separate financial
statements will comprise: (i) a statement of Source and Application of Funds for the project during the
current financial year, and cumulatively from the start of the project, and (ii) a balance sheet. These two
financial statements will be prepared annually. In addition, the DLC agreed during negotiations to submit
a quarterly report using the LACI models including financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule
and output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. Due its legal status as an association,
DLC is required for its own operation to follow the West African Accounting System, commonly called
SYSCOA, under which a set of financial statements must be prepared annually.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements: The Director will submit an initial business plan for DLC
Board and IDA review and approval. An annual business plan will be developed and submitted by
November 1 of each subsequent year to the DLC Board for review and approval and to IDA for review.
The financial component of the business plan will detail operating expense financing, to specify, among
other things, loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the DLC itself. Thereafter, DLC should
operate and renew its equipment through self-generated revenues; this will be determined during the fifth
year of implementation.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the DLC Board within 30 days of the end of each
quarter. At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the borrower and
DLC will present to IDA financial audit reports of: (i) the Special Account as well as a special opinion on
the SOEs; and (ii) DLC accounts and financial statements.
DLC will maintain separate accounting records for the project components that it manages directly and
for its own operations (see Annex 6).



- 18-
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
A. Project Costs by Component
A. CENTER RETROFITTING AND EQUIPMEN        .    .                 _        _ =_.
Civil Works
Civil Reconstruction                    80,208   (80,208) 148,959 (148,959)  229,167  (2,6
Other Refifting                         35,584   (35,584)  66,085  (66,085)  101,66   (101,669
Subtotal Component Base Cost            115,793  (115,793) 215,043 (215,043)  330,836   330,836
Price Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                   11,579   (11,579)  21,504  (21,504    33,084   (33,084
Subtotal Component Cost                 127,372  (127,372) 236,548 (236,548)  363,920  (363,920)
B GOODS
1. Network Access Equipment and Videocon Ferencing quipment
Common Equipmpent for all Sites         25,205   (25,205'   2,801  (2,801    28,005   (28,005)
Remote Baseband Equipment per Site      32,842   (32,842'   3,649  (3,649    36,491   (36,491'
Remote RF Equipment per Site            41,130   (41,130)   4,570   4,5701  45,700   (45,700)
Video Equipment                         68166   (68,166'   7,574  (7,574    75,740   (75,740'
T.120 Application Kit                   10,800   (10,800'   1,200   1        12,000   (12,000
Audio Equipment          _ __           15,639   (15,639'   1,738  (1,738    17,377   (17,377'
Audio Response Equipment                10,710   (10,710    1,190  (1,190    11,900      11,900)
LAN Equipment                           58,500   (58,500'   6,500  (6,500    65,000   (65,000)
TV Receive only                         13,500   (13,500,   1,500  (1,500    15,000   (15,000'
PCs and Related Equipment               89,550   (89,550;   9,950  (9,950    99,500   (99,500;
2. Other Equipment and Furniture
Office Furniture                        18,750   (18,750,  56,250  (56,250    75,000   (75,000'
UPS and Generator                       17,500   (17,500)  52,500  (52,500    70,000   (70,000'
Other Electrical/Electronic equipment   21,534   (21,534    3,800  (3,800    25,334   (25,334'
Car                                     22,100   (22,100'   3,900  (3,900    26,000   (26,000'
Video and TV Equipment                   4,465    (4,465'     788    _788     5,253     5,253
Shipping and Installation of Equipment   42,500   (42,500'   7,500  (7,500    50,000   (50,000'
Subtotal Component Base Cost            492,891  (492,891' 165,409 (165,409.  658,300  (658,300
Price Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                  49,289   (49,289)  16,541  (16,541    65,830   (65,830)
Subtotal Component Cost                 542,180  (542,180) 181,950 (181,950,  724,130  (724,130)
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING
Supervision of Work (including AGETIP'S fee)   10,000   (10,000)  30,000  (30,000'   40,000   (40,000)
Legal Studies             _              7,500    (7,500)  22,500  (22,500)   30,000   (30,000)
Training for DLC Staff                  45,000   (45,000)   5,000  (5,000'   50,000   (50,000)
Audits                                  11,250   (11,250)  33,750  (33,750'   45,000   (45,000)
Consulting Services                       5,000    (5,000)  45,000  (45,000'   50,000   (50,000)
Subtotal Component Base Cost             78,750   (78,750) 136,250 (136,250'  215,000  (215,000)
Price Contingencies I_I
Physical Contingencies                    7,875    (7,875)  13,625  (13,625'   21,500 _21,500)
Subtotal Component Cost                  86,625   (86,625) 149,875 (149,875)  236,500  (236,500)



- 19-
D. OPERATING COST
Satellite Bandwidth & Servicing Cost    693,480  (246,129)      0        ()  693,480  (246,129
Personnel                               171,000   (41,636) 279,000 (127,754)  450,000  (169,390)
Maintenance                            213,837   (49,092) 348,892 (150,631)  562,729  (199,723)
Utilities                                29,260    (7,035)  47,740  (21,584)   77,000   (28,619
Variable Operating Cost                  47,500   (10,905)  77,500  (33,460)  125,000   (44,365
Subtotal Component Base Cost           1,155,077  (354,796) 753,132 (333,429) 1,908,209  (688,225)
Price Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                  115,508   (35,480)  75,313  (33,343)  190,821   (68,823)
Subtotal Component Cost                1,270,585  (390,276) 828,445 (366,772) 2,099,029  (757,048)
B. Project Costs by Category
D. CIVIL W ORKS                                  ___
Base Cost                                 115,793  (1,,29)  215,043 (215,043)  330,836  (330,8361
B. GOODS
1. Network Access Equipment               408,542  (408,542)   48,171  (48,171 J  456,713  (456,713)
2. Other Equipment and Furniture           84,349   (841349)  117,238 (117238)  201,587 (4 1,5879
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND Tt,iNING
Base Cost                                 78,750   (78,750)  136,250 (136,250)  215,000  (215,000)
D. OPERATING COSTI
1. Satellite Bandwidth Rent               693,480  (246,129)       0       ()693,480  (246,12
2. Operating Expenditure                  461,597  (108,667)  753,132 (333,429) 1,214,729  (442,096)
|Total Base Cost                         1,842,510 (1,042,229) 1,269,834 (850,132) 3,112,345(1823,
Total Price ContingenciesI
Total Physical Contingencies              184,2511 (104,223)1 126,983  (85,013)  311,234  (189,236)
|TotaliProject Cost   X                 2,026,7611(1,146,452)11,396,8181 (935,145) 3,423,579 (2,081,597)



-20 -
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
1.    The cost-effectiveness analysis is based on comparing the cost of delivering training courses
through the Global Distance Learning Network with the current training and course delivery practice in
its "target market". Currently, there are four main methods of in-service training of professionals:
(a) international training, i.e., outside Africa;
(b) regional training, i.e., in another African country;
(c) local training by local trainers; and
(d) local training by international trainers.
2.     Main Assumptions. In the absence of reliable and comprehensive data on the training market in
Senegal, preliminary data gathered in the field make it possible to estimate the following distribution of
in-service training of professionals (mainly public sector employees who were trained in 1997-1998):
45% of professionals are trained internationally, 15% are trained regionally, 20% are trained locally by
local staff, and 20% are trained locally by international staff.
3.     Capacity: By design, the Senegal distance learning facility will have a capacity of 30 seats each
for the conference and computer rooms. The Center may operate over 260 working days per year. In the
long run (by Year 5), capacity utilization is estimated to be around 65%, corresponding to a production
level of 5,000 student-days. For the first four years, a steady annual increase of the capacity utilization
rate is projected as follows: 10%, 20%, 30% and 45% respectively for each successive year.
4.     One of the indicators for comparing costs of course delivery in the current system of in-service
training of professionals with the one proposed in the GDLN is the unit cost of course delivery per
student-day. This indicator reflects all measurable components, except the "quality and convenience of
the proposed system," as it will provide easier and wider access to state-of-the-art knowledge and
information. In a comprehensive evaluation, these benefits need to be taken into account although they
are difficult to quantify.
5.     Cost of the Distance Learning Center: The unit cost of course delivery per student per day is
defined as operating cost plus depreciation (i.e., total OC) divided by the total number of students trained
over an average course length. The estimated cost structure of the DLC is detailed in Annex 5. The annual
cost is determined to be around US$500,000. Fixed cost represents 85% of total cost, indicating that a
high level of expenses will be incurred by the Center irrespective of the level of utilization of its facilities.
The cost per day and per student depends on the level of demand, and hence the rate of use of the
proposed facilities. The table below shows that the cost per student and per day is very sensitive to the
rate of capacity utilization. Unit cost decreases sharply when utilization of the center facilities increases,
whereas the operating cost remains largely unchanged due to the importance of fixed costs.
Year                                1        2        3        4         5
Capacity utilization (%)           10        20       30       45        60
Total operating cost (thousand US$)   486    492      497      502       502
Cost per student per day (US$)     585       333      210       145      107



-21 -
6.    This simulation emphasizes the importance of a qualified business-oriented manager to develop
effective marketing tools and attract enough clients to ensure DLC competitiveness and financial
sustainability. Preliminary market data suggest that an utilization rate of 60% may be attained by the fifth
year of operation corresponding to a reasonable unit cost of US$107 per day per student. This will require
an intensive marketing endeavor by the DLC management team aiming at: diversifying Center products
and services and winning customer loyalty through steady high-quality service, competitive pricing, and
training content relevant to expressed demand and client expectations.
7.     Unit Cost of the Existing Training System: Cost of in-service training was determined for each
delivery method currently used and based on unit costs gathered in the field and including, when
applicable, the following expenses: travel plus subsistence for students or teacher (when training is
provided locally by international trainers), local expenses (for locally delivered training, other costs when
identified. It is worth noting that no course charge (fees) was taken into account as no such fees were
included in the GDLN system (operating costs assume that GDLN content is free of charge for the first
years). Based on the above data and assumptions, the table below presents the unit cost (per day and per
student) of the current in-service training system:
Number of Course Days 5 days          10 days
Unit Cost of Training Category    % of total training
International Training (US$)              45%            910             530
Regional Training (US$)                  15%             410             280
Local Training by Local Staff  (US$)      20%             35              35
Local Training by Inter. Staff  (US$)     20%             75              43
Total Unit Cost of Current System (US$)    100%          493             296
8.    Combining the four categories of the current training system in Senegal gives an estimate of the
average unit cost for the current training system. Depending on the length of the course (and--for
simplicity-- assuming that local courses are delivered by only one international trainer), this yields a range
of unit cost of the current training system in Senegal of US$296 for a 10-day course and US$493 for
a 5-day course.
9.    This range of cost shows that the proposed Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN) training
system will be much more cost-effective than the existing system which lowest possible cost (US$296 for
10 days course) is higher than the GDLN start-up unit cost (US$247 in the second year). In the long run,
the estimated unit cost of the proposed GDLN (US$107) will be about 36% of the cost of the current
system in its most favorable condition.



- 22 -
Annex 5.a: Financial Summary
(in US$ equivalent)
Senegal: Distance Learning Project . LIL
Years Ending 2005
A. Project Cost by Category
0      1      2       3      4       5     Total
Investment Cost               1,109,136  35,000  30,000  30,000              1,204,136
Civil Works                     330,836                                       330,836
Network Access Equipment        110,196                                       110,196
International Equipment for DLC  296,517                                      296,517
Studios
Other Equipment and Furniture   201,587                                       201,587
Shipping and Installation of     50,000                                        50,000
Equipment
Consultant Services and Training  120,000 35,000  30,000  30,000              215,000
Operating Cost                   17,000 378,242 378,242 378,242 378,242 378,242 1,908,209
Fixed Operating Cost            17,000 353,242 353,242 353,242 353,242 353,242 1,783,209
Satellite Bandwidth & Servicing Cost   138,696 138,696 138,696 138,696 138,696   693,480
Personnel                       15,000 87,000  87,000 87,000 87,000 87,000   450,000
Maintenance                            112546 112546 112,546 112,546 112,546   562,729
Utilities                        2,000  15,000  15,000  15,000  15,000  15,000    77,000
Variable Operating Cost                 25,000  25,000  25,000  25,000  25,000   125,000
Total Project Cost            1,126,136 413,242 408,242 408,242 378,242 378,242 3,112,345
B. Project Financing
monommismigoam   ~          0       1      2      3       4      5      Total
Required Financing
Total Project Cost            1,109,136  35,000  30,000 30,000     -       - 1,204,136
Physical Investment Cost       989,136      -      -       -      -       -  989,136
Services                       120,000 35,000  30,000  30,000     -       -  215,000
Financed by IDA               1,109,136 35,000  30,000  30,000   0     0    1,204,136
C. Project Operation Financing
0      1      2       3      4       5     Total
Required Financing
Project Operating Cost           17,000 378,242 378,242 378,242 378,242 378,242 1,908,209
Revenue Generation                    - 80,000 147,500 236,000 346,500 458,000 1,268,000
Financed by IDA                  17,000 298,242 230,742 142,242               688,225
Surplus                                                       31,742 (79,758)  (48,017)



- 23 -
1.      Financial Analysis
A financial analysis was conducted to determine the terms of financial viability of the proposed project. In
the absence of adequate and reliable data regarding the training market in Senegal, the project team
determined the financial goals (pricing policy and cost sharing principle) and market goals (level of demand
and capacity utilization to be targeted) to be accomplished by the DLC management team if the Center is to
be financially self-sustaining by the medium term (fourth year of operation). More market research is
needed to have better information on characteristics of Senegal's training market and a precise
understanding of its dynamics to help design an appropriate marketing policy for the Center. Therefore,
during the project preparation phase, a consultant conducted a detailed market study which will be available
to the DLC management team once it is in place later in calendar year 2000. The main use of the market
study is to serve as a key input to business plan design by the DLC management team. The business plan
will be drafted over the first two months of start-up of Center operations.
2.      Main assumptions
Revenue
Income generation: The most crucial set of assumptions pertains to the revenue generation patterns. Given
the rapid pace of project preparation, only a very preliminary understanding of the market dynamics was
obtained. An altemative approach (admittedly sub-optimal) for deriving a set of precise revenue projections
would have been to use training supply to determine the requirements for the Center to be financially viable
and then analyze whether these requirements are reasonable from the demand side in the context of
Senegal. Training supply is relatively precise as most of the DLC courses will be provided by the WBI at
least for the first two years. The main assumption regards the utilization rates for Center facilities, which
are projected, over the first five years of operation, to be 10%, 20%, 30%, 44% and 60%, and going up to
65% for each successive year. The maximum capacity amounts to 5000 student-days of training at a 65%
utilization rate. The training fee is set at around US$100 per student per day, as this price seems to be
competitive and affordable for most public and private institutions (see Annex 4) and is therefore expected
to attract more students.
Other financial revenue: The amount of financial support to the DLC to balance its operating cost over the
first years of operation will be determined by the extent to which the Center can generate its own revenue.
Hence, it is defined as the residual between the revenue generated and total funding required to cover
operating costs before depreciation.
Operating Cost
Satellite Bandwidth Rent: The satellite bandwidth cost includes the yearly rental cost for the bandwidth and
a corresponding service charge. Bandwidth costs are fixed costs, i.e. they don't depend on capacity
utilization rates. Annual cost is estimated at US$138,700 on the basis of existing rates provided by the
supplier.
Personnel: It is assumed that the DLC will have eight local staff including a manager, a facilitator and a
technician.  Annual salary per staff is based on current market data for similar positions and
responsibilities.
Maintenance: The estimated maintenance costs are based on the following assumptions: locally procured
equipment (furniture, etc.) and civil works have a yearly maintenance of 10% of initial investment cost;
internationally procured equipment (equipment for videoconferencing room) has a yearly maintenance cost
of 20% of initial investment cost. This high rate accounts for possible contracting out maintenance
activities of sensitive equipment to a qualified foreign or regional company.



- 24-
Utilities: Utility costs include expenditures on electricity, telephone and water, which were estimated to
cost US$15,000 annually by comparison to similar computer services in Senegal.
Variable Operating Cost: These mainly comprise costs related to training and office supply, and depend on
capacity utilization. A flat cost of US$25,000 per year has been assumed at full capacity utilization.
Depreciation: Equipment is assumed to depreciate at different rates in accordance with national accounting
standards in Senegal.
Fee/Interest and debt service: The Government of Senegal suggests carrying the interest and principal
repayment in lieu of the Center to allow for sensible and attractive training rates. However, it is envisaged
that the Center assumes reinvestment and renewal cost of its equipment.
3.      Financial Statements and Results. Based on the above assumptions, basic financial statements
of the Center have been established for the first five years of its operation. Annex 5.b presents the income
and cash flow statement as well as its projected balance sheet. It shows that under the above assumptions
the Distance Learning Center will be economically viable and self-sustaining (reach its break-even point)
once its capacity utilization rate attains or exceeds 44% (or 3465 student-days per year are sold). This is the
equivalent of 700 professionals attending a 5-day training per year. From the market perspective, this
requirement seems to be achievable: (i) a rate of US$100 per day per participant compares very favorably
with the average cost of the current training practice (US$296, see Annex 4); this attractive rate will allow
for more participants within the same overall budget; (ii) 700 professionals trained annually represents
around 20% of the high-level civil servant population in Senegal; however, private sector managers and
community leaders will also take training, either reducing the number of civil servants who would need to
be trained to maintain the assumption of 700 students per year, or increasing the number of students who
could be trained in a given year above 700.
4.      The income statement suggests that the break-even point (operating cost minus depreciation) will
be attained in the fourth year, when the capacity utilization rate reaches 44% (at a unit cost of US$107 per
day per student). The overall equilibrium (including depreciation to allow for reinvestment) is attained from
the fifth year at a utilization rate of 60% or higher. To achieve this goal, an intensive marketing campaign
will be needed from the Center management team to: diversify DLC products and services and win
customer loyalty through steadily improving quality of service, competitive pricing, and providing training
courses that meet expressed demand and client expectations. This emphasizes the importance of a qualified
business-oriented manager to develop effective marketing tools and attract enough clients to ensure Center
competitiveness and financial sustainability.
5.      Initial pricing of the Center's services aims at promoting DLC products and attracting more
professionals and decision-makers to strengthen their management and policy formation capacity, which is
difficult to quantify in economic and financial terms. Consequently, the operating deficit of the first three
years will be covered through special Governnent support through IDA credit proceeds from this proposed
LIL. This financial support will match the exact deficit (without depreciation), projected to be around
US$688,000 for the first three years, making up 54% of generated income over that period. This support
will be provided on a decreasing basis over this 3-year period as follows: 80% of operating cost in the first
year, 60% in the second, and 40% in the third. As the initial training rate, US$100 per person, is in the low
range, it may be raised in relation to the market demand for certain high-demand courses. A flexible
market-driven pricing policy should improve the financial viability of the project.



-25 -
Annex 5.b: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
(in US$ equivalent)
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Years Ending 2005
r   d  _1S M  o0     1        2        3        4       5   6to 10  11 to 15
operating assumption:
% capacity utilisation                    10%      19%      30%      44%    59%      63%      64%
number of student days                     800    1,475    2,360    3,465   4,580   24,705   25,000
price per student per day                  100      100      100      100    100      100      100
Revenue                              -  80,000  147,500  236,000  346,500 458,000 2,470,500 2,500,000
Fixed Operating Cost            17,000  353,242  353,242  353,242  353,242 353,242 1,766,209 1,766,209
Satellite Bandwidth Rent            -  138,696  138,696  138,696  138,696 138,696  693,480  693,480
Personnel                      15,000   87,000   87,000   87,000   87,000  87,000  435,000  435,000
Maintenance                         -  112,546  112,546  112,546  112,546 112,546  562,729  562,729
Utilities                       2,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000  15,000   75,000   75,000
Variable Operating Cost              -  25,000   25,000   25,000   25,000  25,000  125,000  125,000
Total Cost                      17,000  378,242  378,242  378,242  378,242 378,242 1,891,209 1,891,209
Operating Profit I Deficit    (17,000) (298,242) (230,742) (142,242)  (31,742)  79,758  579,292  608,792
Grant for Operating Cost        17,000  298,242  230,742  142,242       -       -l
Total Operating Profit / Deficit     -       -        -        - (31,742)  79,758  579,292  608,792
Depreciation                        - 163,209  159,043  164,043  169,043 169,043  682,713  616,046
Commitment Fee I Interest                                          -        -           -I 
Net Income                            (163,209  159,043  164,043  200,784  89,284  103,421)  (7,255
Resources
Net Income                          - (163,209) (159,043) (164,043) (200,784) (89,284) (103,421)  (7,255)
Depreciation added back             -  163,209  159,043  164,043  169,043 169,043  682,713  616,046
Loan / Credit Proceeds       1,109,136   35,000   30,000   30,000      -       -        -       -
Total Resources              1,109,136   35,000   30,000   30,000  (31,742)  79,758  579,292  608,792
Expenses
Initial Investment           1,109,136   35,000   30,000   30,000              -
Replacement/ Reinvestment           -        -        -       -                   735,317  517,553
Loan Repayment (Principal)                   -        -       -        -                -       -
Total Expenses               1,109,136   35,000   30,000   30,000       -      0  735,317  517,553
Net Cash Flow                        -       -        -        - (31,742)  79,7581 (156,026)   91,238
Net Cumulative Cash                 -        -        -        - (31,742)   48,017 (108,009) (16,770)
Net Fixed Assets             1,109,136  980,927  851,884  717,842  548,799  379,757 2,631,466 2,022,436
Plus Cumulative Depreciation            163,209  322,252  486,294  655,337  824,379 3,099,214 3,523,244
Fixed Assets              *  1,109,136 1,144,136 1,174,136 1,204,136 1,204,136 1,204,136 5,730,680 5,545,680
Total Assets                 1,109,136 1,144,136 1,174,136 1,204,136 1,172,394 1,252,153 5,185,317 5,723,241
LongTerm Loan                1,109,136 1,109,136 1,109,136 1,109,136 1,109,136 1,109,136 5,545,680 5,545,680
Equity (Capital & Retained Earnings)  -   35,000   65,000   95,000   63,258  143,017 (360,364)  177,561
Total Liabilities            1,109,136 1,144,136 1,174,136 1,204,136 1,172,394 1,252,153 5,185,317 5,723,241
Operating Profit as % of Revenue         -373%    -156%    -60%      -9%    17%      23%      24%
Net Cash as % of Revenue                     -        -        -     _9%    17%      -6%       4%
Investment as % of Operating Profit      -12%    -13%    -21%           -       -   127%      85%



-26-
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Procurement
A.       General
1.      A Country Procurement Assessment review (CPAR) was carried out in July 1994, which findings
remain valid for this program. In general, Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with
IDA Guidelines. No special exceptions, permnits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Senegal's procurement practices allow IDA procedures
to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. IDA-financed Works and Goods or
contracts financed by other donors eventually administered by IDA will be procured in accordance with
Bank's Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999). National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally in at least two
local newspapers of wide circulation would be carried out in accordance with Senegal's procurement laws
and regulations acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four
weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents and not be
applied arbitrarily; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible firms are
not precluded from participation; (v) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with
predetermined and transparent methods; (vi) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons for
rejecting any non-responsive bid; and (vii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding
documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable. IDA-financed contracts for Consultants Services
will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank
Borrower published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The standard Request
for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for appointment of consulting firms. Simplified
contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e., those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms
or individual consultants.
2.       Procurement Arrangements. The following procurement arrangements, presented in Table A,
will apply to all contracts financed by the IDA credit. These anrangements were agreed upon during
appraisal and were confirmed at negotiations.
Table A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                                      Total Cost
[CB              NCB                 Other               (incl. Cont.)
1. Civil Works                                          916
2. Goods (Office Furniture! Other equip.)             $193.146 ($193,146)   $28,600    ($28,600)  $221,746  ($221,746)
3. Consultant Services and Training                                        $66,997    ($66,997)   $66,997   ($66,997)
4. Operating Cost                                                               _
a) Satellite bandwidth rent                                             $762,828   ($270,742)  $762,828  ($270,742)
b) Operating expenditure                                               $1,099,056   ($249,160) $1,099,056  ($249,160)
5. PPF                                                                    1,272,9521  (1,272,952)  1,272,952  (1,272,952)
Total                                   $0      ($0)  $193,1461 ($193,146) $3,230,433  ($ 1,888,4515) $3,423,579 ($2,081,597)
Figures in brackets represent IDA financing



- 27 -
B.      Procurement of Goods and Works
3.      National Competitive Bidding (goods): Contracts for goods include office furniture (tables and
chairs for the computers and conference rooms). These contracts are expected to be carried out by local
suppliers, and bidding procedures and contracts will be managed by AGETIP under a Contract
Management agreement. All contracts for goods which cost the equivalent of $50,000.00 or more, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $0.36 million for works and $0.2 million for goods, would be procured
through NCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.      Other Procurement Methods: Equipment for the Network access and for the videoconference
room will be procured by the Bank (ISG department) ) on behalf of the Borrower (for compatibility reasons
with the Global Distance Network) on a direct contracting basis to benefit from a bulk discount from
Bank suppliers. This will be procured under the same contract as Bank network access equipment, which
was awarded competitively. To this end, an agreement has been signed between the Government of
Senegal and the International Development Association (IDA). Satellite Bandwidth Rent contract will
be procured on a direct contracting basis (one supplier selected under the Bank umbrella). Small
quantities of office supplies, a vehicle for the Center's operation, an electricity generator, and data wiring
estimated at less than $50,000.00 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $0.3 million will be
procured on the basis of national shopping in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.      Prior and post review by the Bank for Works and Goods contracts: All IDA-financed works
and goods contracts above the threshold of US$50,000 per contract will be subject to prior review (PR)
procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts under these thresholds will be subject to
post review. Review thresholds are specified in Table B below.
C.      Procurement of Consulting Services
6.      Recrtitment of consulting firms for design of a financial management system of the DLC will be
carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Consultant services for the annual financial audit of the DLC and other audit services will be
carried out under the Least Cost Based Selection Method (LCBS). Single Source Selection (SSS) will be
used for the hiring of the Delegated Contract Management Agency (AGETIP). Contracts for these services
will be awarded on a sole-source basis as they require specialized consultants and quick intervention to
establish the Center. Tasks that do not require a multidisciplinary team and that are limited in scope will be
procured on the basis of a comparison of qualifications (CVs) among a minimum of three qualified
individual consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
7.      Prior and post review by the Bank for consultant contracts: Consulting assignments with
firms and individuals that cost more than US$50,000 per contract and the contract with AGETIP will be
subject to prior review by IDA. Review thresholds are given in Table B below.



- 28 -
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Expenditure          Contract Value    Procurement      Esbtmated Total
Category          (Threshold) (US$)     Method        Value Subject to
Prior Review (PR)
(US$)
1. Goods
Office Furniture &        193,146 ($50,000)     NCB            PR = 193,146
other equipment
2. Consultant services      165,000 ($50,000)     QCBS               0
Or LCBS
50,000 ($50,000)   Individual Consultant  0
Contract Mgt Agency (AGETIP)  30,000 ($0)       Sole Source      PR = 30,000
D.      Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions
8.      The detailed investment implementation schedule will be presented in the Project Implementation
Manual. This timetable will be used as a basis to monitor procurement processing. In particular, the
following advance procurement actions have been identified and agreed with the Borrower: (a) draft
technical specifications of the various equipment of the DLC; (b) draft terms of references and letter of
invitation for works supervision; (c) blueprints are under way for various retrofitting scenario of the site,
(d) draft bidding documents for goods to be procured by AGETIP.
E.      Overall Risk Assessment and Proposed Supervision Arrangements
9.      The project appraisal did not include a formal Procurement Assessment Review (PAR) as the
entity to be managing the project had just been created. However, most of the required procurement for
this project was achieved during the preparation phase and most of it was handled by AGETIP. Also,
National Bidding Procedures for public sector procurement in Senegal are in the process of being revised
with the assistance of the Bank. A revised procurement code is expected to be approved soon, which will
introduce simplified procedures and training of staff supported under an IDF Grant, and it is expected that
the current National procurement framework will improve. Remaining procurement under the project will
be handled by the Manager of the Distance Learning Center. They involve mostly office supplies, vehicle
operating costs, salaries and other miscellaneous items. An evaluation of the capacity of the DLC in the
area of procurement will be carried out once the Management Unit is established, to assess any need for
training or recruitment of ad-hoc external services. Proposed frequency of supervision missions is one
every six months including ex-post review of procurement decisions.
F.      Monitoring and Reporting
10.     Accounting, Auditing and Reporting. DLC will maintain separate accounting records for the
project components that it manages directly and for its own operations. An accounting and financial
management system will be set up in DLC prior to the project effectiveness. In addition to its financial
statements, DLC agreed during negotiations to submit a quarterly report, one month after the end of each
quarter, presenting a summary of sources and uses of funds, procurementlcontracts schedule and statement
and summary of expenditures by component and by category. Assurance has been obtained from the



-29 -
Borrower that implementing agency accounts and financial statements, and the Special Account maintained
by the Distance Learning Center will be audited annually in accordance with international audit standards
by experienced and recognized audit firms satisfactory to IDA.
11.     At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the borrower and
DLC will present to IDA financial audit reports of: (i) the Special Account as well as a special opinion on
the SOEs; and (ii) DLC accounts and financial statements.
12.     Financial Management and Reporting: (See Annex 8) As the implementing agency for this
project, (the DLC) is a new entity, the project will begin with the LACI compliant system and disbursement
arrangements through a Special Account and SOEs. The DLC will produce quarterly activity reports. After
one year of project implementation, the financial management system and reporting system will be
reassessed to shift from the SOEs-based disbursement system to a LACI-compliant disbursement system.
Disbursement Arranaements
13.    The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA project credit will be
disbursed over a period of four years (from 2000 to 2004), with a closing date of April 30, 2004.
14.     All applications to withdraw the proceeds of the credit will be fully documented for contracts
subject to prior review by IDA. For contracts not subject to IDA prior review, disbursements will be made
against Statements of Expenditures (see below) certified by the Financial Manager of the DLC.
TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS (IN SDR)
(RATE OF FEBRUARY 29, 2000: 1 SDR = US$1.33995)
Expenditure Category                                 Amount       % of Expenditures to be
Financed
1. Goods                                             50,000                90%
2. Consultant service and training                    50,000               100%
3. Operating Costs                                   500,000               90%
4. Project Preparation Advance Refunding             950,000
5. Unallocated                                        50,000
Total                                            1,600,000
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
15.     Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursement on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
may be made for expenditures: (a) under contracts for civil works and goods costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each; (b) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants
worth less than US$50,000 and US$25,000 respectively per contract. Supporting documents for SOEs will



- 30-
be retained by the DLC and AGETIP and will be made available for review by Bank staff during
supervision missions. The SOEs will be audited annually.
Special Account
16.     Special Account (SA): To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account will be
established by the Borrower in the name of the DLC of Senegal in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The DLC will operate this SA. The authorized balance of the SA will be
US$ 100,000. This amount is estimated to cover about three months of expenditures. The Special Account
will be replenished through the submission, by the Borrower, of fully documented withdrawal applications
to IDA, which will have been prepared by the DLC. Reimbursement applications submitted against the SA
will include a bank statement showing account activity since the last application, with the balance certified
by the bank holding the Special Account, and a reconciliation statement. The Borrower will submit
replenishment requests to the Special Account on a monthly basis, or whenever the account is diminished
by one third, whichever comes first. Upon credit effectiveness, 50% of the authorized allocation (or
US$50,000) will be disbursed to the SA. The remaining 50% of the authorized allocation will be advanced
to the SA once SDR 250,000 has been disbursed.
17.    The SA will be used for all expenditures valued at less than 20% of the amount advanced to the
Account. Direct payments and applications for issuance of Special Commitments must therefore equal at
least 20% of the amount advanced to the SA.



-31 -
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           4                     4
First Bank mission (identification)              03/09/1999            03/09/1999
Appraisal mnission departure                     07/06/1999            07/1011999
Negotiations                                     02/20/2000            03/08/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/15/2000
Prepared by: former Ministry of State Modernization
Preparation assistance: PPF Advance
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Marc Lixi                             Task Leader, AFMSN
Alassane Diawara                      Principal Operations Officer, AFMSN
Joseph K. Ingram                      Program Manager, World Bank Institute (WBI)
Mehdi Roustayi                        Senior Information Technology Officer, ISGGC
Michael Foley                         Senior Distance Education Specialist, WBIDL
Axel Baumler                          Financial Analyst (Consultant, AFTQK)
Amadou Tidiane Tour.                  Procurement Officer, AFMSN
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye              Financial Management Specialist, AFMSN
Serge Theunynck                       Sr. Implementation Specialist, AFTH2
AFMSN = Senegal Country Office, Dakar, Senegal
ISGGC = Infornation Solutions Group, Global Connectivity Solutions
WBIDL  World Bank Institute, Distance Learning Unit
AFTQK  Operational Quality and Knowledge Services, Africa Region
AFTH2 = Human Development 2, Africa Region



- 32 -
Annex 8: Financial Management Arrangements
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
1.    The Distance Learning Center Project will establish a financial management system, acceptable
to IDA, which will provide accurate and timely infornation regarding resources and expenditures. The
financial management system will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing elements.
Financial Management Assessment
2.    The implementing agency for the project will be the Distance learning Center (DLC) that will
also have the responsibility of the overall financial management of the project. A review of DLC financial
management capacities was done during project preparation to assess the adequacy of the accounting and
auditing practices, standards, and internal and other controls to ensure adherence to accounting and
auditing standards and reporting formats acceptable to the Bank. The review was also intended to
determine: (i) whether DLC can satisfy Bank requirements for the use of special accounts and statements
of expenditures, and (ii) the eligibility of this entity for the LACI-based disbursement method. The main
findings of this assessment have been taken into account to define an action plan. These findings are
summarized hereafter.
3.    The Distance Learning Project is composed of two components. Comnonent 1 - Distance
Learning Center Retrofitting - will comprise building facilities for establishment of the DLC and
equipment of the DLC, including: (i) a videoconference room with a 30-person capacity, (ii) a computer
room outfitted for 30 computer stations, (iii) a technical and administrative center, and (iv) mechanical
outfitting, such as installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring. Component 2 will
provide support for DLC operation through: (i) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis
over the first three years of operation, (ii) purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of
DLC services, and (iii) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of center
operation and management effectiveness, and establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit.
4.    It is important to note that most Component 1 activities will be implemented during project
preparation and financed under the PPF. Hence, mainly Component 2 activities will be implemented
during the life of the project from effectiveness to completion dates. The total amount to be disbursed
during this last period is estimated at US$900,000 covering mainly operating costs such as satellite
bandwidth and servicing costs, personnel, maintenance, utilities. Given these factors, the present project
can be considered as "small Bank operation" in terms of amount and complexity. Therefore, the financial
management system has to be simple to install, although some specific needs must be covered and will be
taken into account in the design of the system.
5.    The implementing agency of the project, the Distance Learning Center (DLC), has been
established as an autonomous nonprofit agency. Given that it is a new entity, the assessment of its
financial management capacity at this stage consists in identifying the needs to be fulfilled and defining
an action plan to develop an appropriate and adequate financial management system satisfactory to IDA,
to be in place prior to project effectiveness.



-33-
Financial Management System, reporting, auditing and staffing
I.    Accounting: The DLC will have the responsibility of the project's overall financial management.
It will have to maintain both the project's accounts and its own set of accounts as an autonomous
nonprofit yet revenue-earning entity. This second aspect is very important as it will help in the assessment
of the DLC's performance regarding its objective to mobilize an increasing share of financing for its
operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the project implementation period. Given this
objective, the financial viability of the DLC is vital to the success of the project. To meet these
requirements, DLC will be equipped with a computerized financial management system appropriate to the
scale and nature of the project and capable of recording and reporting the project's operations by
components, sub-components, activities, expenditure categories, regardless of origin of funds, as well as
its own operations. The computerized financial management system will be multi-currency and include
the following modules which should be integrated: general accounting, cost accounting, budgeting,
contract management, fixed assets register, preparation of withdrawal applications, reports generating.
2.    In addition, a manual of administrative and financial procedures will be developed for the project.
It will describe: (i) the overall organization of the project and that of the DLC including job descriptions;
(ii) the accounting system: chart of accounts, cost accounting coding, accounting standards to be applied
for the project, presentation of main accounts entries, formnat of the project's financial statements and
other reports including PMR, diaries, filing system, etc; (iii) the various operational procedures including
budget management (planning and monitoring), procurement of goods and services, recording
transactions in the books of accounts, disbursement, reporting, etc.; and (iv) internal control procedures.
3.    Terms of reference have been prepared and agreed on with the Government of Senegal during
project preparation. They specify the Consultants scope of work which include the following aspects:
(i) development of the manual of administrative and financial procedures, (ii) installation of a
computerized financial management system, and (iii) training and assistance.
4.    Financial reporting: Two sets of financial statements will be required: the project's separate
financial statements and the DLC's (as an autonomous agency) financial statements. The project's
separate financial statements will comprise: (i) a statement of Source and Application of Funds for the
project during the current financial year, and cumulatively since the start of the project, and (ii) a balance
sheet. These two financial statements will be prepared annually. In addition, DLC agreed during
negotiations to submit a quarterly report using the LACI models including financial statements,
procurement/contracts schedule and output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. Given the
size and nature of activities to be financed during the implementation period comprising mainly operating
costs, DLC should be able to make accurate expenditure forecasts which are necessary to prepare the
LACI model financial statements.
5.    Due its legal status as an association, DLC is required for its own operation to follow the West
African Accounting System, commonly called SYSCOA, under which a set of financial statements must
be prepared annually. They include a balance sheet, an income statement and a cash flow statement,
which will provide the necessary information on the financial situation of DLC. DLC will be required to
submit these annual financial statements to the Bank. In addition, an interim quarterly income statement
showing comparisons of actual and budgeted incomes and expenses will be required.
6.    Auditing: The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA.
Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion on:



- 34 -
* the project financial statements (statement of Source and Application of Funds and Balance sheet);
* the statements of expenditures (SOE); and
* the special account (SA).
7.    In addition to the audit of the project's financial statements mentioned above, DLC's proper
financial statements will also be audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and
detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period.
8.    The auditor will also issue a separate management report on Internal Controls and operational
procedures outlining any recommendations for improving internal accounting controls and operational
procedures identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
9.    The audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each financial year.
The selection of an auditor acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Terms of reference for the
recruitment of the auditors have been drafted and agreed on with the Government of Senegal.
10.    Staffing: A qualified accountant acceptable to IDA will be hired to operate DLC as well as the
project's fmancial management system. He/she should be in place prior to project effectiveness and
his/her recruitment according to the terms of reference already drafted and agreed on with the
Government of Senegal is a condition of effectiveness.
PMR (Project Management Report) based disbursement
11.    As mentioned above, all the tools necessary to prepare a quarterly PMR will be in place by the
date of effectiveness. These tools consist of the computerized financial management system and the
manual of administrative and accounting procedures. The computerized financial management system
will be customized to the specific needs of the project to allow an automatic generation of the quarterly
PMR according to the models presented in the LACI Implementation Handbook and Financial
Management Manual (draft version). However given that the project implementing agency, DLC, is a
new entity and despite all measures proposed above to develop appropriate financial management
capacity, it is recommended to begin with traditional disbursement arrangements through a Special
Account and SOEs (statements of expenditures). It is expected that after one year of project
implementation, the implementing agency's financial management capacities will be strengthened enough
to prepare accurate PMRs that could be used as a basis of disbursement as required under LACI. A new
assessment of the financial management system will be done after 12 months starting from date of
effectiveness for compatibility with LACI and to propose the use of the PMR-based disbursement method
or any strengthening action plan necessary to meet LACI requirements.



-35 -
Annex 9: Documents in the Project File*
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Summary of Negotiations (held March 8-9, 2000)
Minutes of Decision Meeting (held on October 26, 1999) - e-mail dated November 8, 1999
C. Other
Request for Supplemental PPF advance, dated January 6, 2000
Request for PPF advance, dated October 19, 1999
*Including electronic files.



-36-
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits
Senegal: Distance Leaming Project - LIL
Status of Bank Group Operations (as of May 31, 2000)
Difference
Between
Closed                                             Last Project Status Report                                      Expected and
Projects: 87                                                   (PSR)                                                     Actual
- IDA = 68
- IBRD = 19
Board                                                     Supervision Ratina       Original Amount in USS              Disbursements
Date                                                       S = Satisfactory              Millions
Fiscal                                                   HS = Highly Satisfactory
Year
Active Projects                Development Implementation  IBRD       IDA  Cancel.   Undisb.  Oria. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives     Proaress
1995   P035615  COMM NUTRITION                             S              S             0     18.2       0       1.54   3.74       3.77   '
1995   P002376   PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                        S              S             0     12.5       0       3.86   4.73          3
1995   P002346  WATER SECTOR                               HS             S             0     100        0      54.25  65.47      61.02
1996   P002373   HIGHER EDUC I                             S              S             0    26.5        0       11.2  -0.87          0
1996   P035621   PILOT FEMALE LITERAC                      HS            HS             0     12.6       0       3.83   -2.18         0
1997   P041567   ENDEMIC DISEASES                          S              S             0     14.9       0      12.91   8.19       2.33
1997   P046648   REGIONAL POWER                             s             S             0     10.5       0       5.33   5.26          0
1997   P046768   SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                       S             S             0      5.2       0       3.99   2.52       0.11
1997   P044383   URBAN TRANS REF TA                        S              S             0      6.6       0       3.03   2.74          0
1998   P051610  AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                        S              S             0       8        0       6.16   2.51      -0.46
1998   P051357   ENERGY SEC. ADJ.                          S              S             0     100        0      74.63  73.95          0
1998   P002369  INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                       S              S             0      50        0      35.94   17.92         0
1998   P002365   URB DEVT & DECEN PRO                       S             S             0      75        0      58.68  24.09          0
1999   P002367  AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                       S              S             0    27.4        0      27.16  11.41          0
1999   P002366   TRANSPORT II                               S             S             0      90        0      82.94   -1.06         0
2000   P057996   NAT.INFRA.PROGRAM                                                      0    28.5        0      27.57       0         0
2000   P047319   Quality Education For All Program                                      0      50        0      49.32       0         0
2000   P067498   Y2K NATIONAL ACTION PLAN                   S             S             0    10.15       0       9.65   3.75          0
SUPPORT
2000   P055472   URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT                                             0   70.00        0      69.76       0         0
PROJECT
TOTAL                                   0  716.05        0      541.75 222.17      69.77



- 37 -
SENEGAL
IFC - Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(As of April 30, 2000)
(in US Dollars Millions)
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval      Company        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Paffic    Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1980           BHS                 0.00     .46      0.00     0.00     0.00      .46    0.00     0.00
1994/96        SOGECA              0.00      .28     0.00     0.00     0.00      .28    0.00     0.00
1996/97/98     AEF SERT             .56     .43      0.00     0.00      .56      .43    0.00     0.00
1997           GTI DAKAR          11.81     1.59     0.00     9.81     5.91     1.27    0.00     7.13
1998           SEF SENTA           .26      0.00     0.00     0.00      .26     0.00    0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:      12.62     2.76     0.00     9.81     6.72     2.45    0.00     7.13
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eauity   Ouasi   Partic
1998           GTI DAKAR           3.11      .22     0.00     0.00
1999           CDS                13.50     2.35     2.35     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         16.61     2.57     2.35     0.00
Note:
BHS = Banque Habitat du Senegal (financial)
SOGECA = Societe generale de credit automobiles (financial)
AEF = Africa Enterprise Fund
SERT = Societe d'exploitation des ressources thonneres (fishery)
GTI-DAKAR = Power project
SEF SENTA = Small Enterprise Fund, Senegal Tanerie (leather)
CDS = Ciment de Sahel



- 38 -
Anntex I11: Country at a Glance
Senegal at a glance
POVERTY*i4SOCIAL                                           Shrn        Lw
San.~aI    AMos    =       Dev.loprnent di.morK*
Popuflo~~~,nld-year (flOi*iofl*)  92    52a     3.515         ~~~     Life expectancy
ppulatlon ME                                        2.7       2.8       1.7
flitoat yes availabl, 199346)  .  2.8  .1.9   GNP           o                  Gross
per                            primary
Oat JISCOOt Oat mats                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~capita             enrollment
Povert (% o(popod8tion ow neUonapovertyAfrse)          .         .
pJronpopuxatio (% d(owa p000ltio                      45         3        3
La ercpectancyatblfIh(yera                            52        51        831
YnanmothyWr1,0WA4vbfths)                         ..       91        6
CMdinaraito fixn at Wicldren qrifd*r5             22         .          .Access to safe water
Il1111a101   0(%o/puhi6i6ig 154)                      87        42        32
GssriayenrollmOnf (% al'seoc$.g. p                                 io;                  Senegal
Mlale7                                                        844      11                  Low-Incorne group
Female                                 ~~~       ~~~     ~~~~   ~ ~~57  89  10   _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
21       4.7              ~~~~~~Economlc raioe
Gmesdomeoft, lnveamentiDP                   11A      1 1.9     19,68     2.                       rad
6E6llaof ogoode old serOceeG0P              30.9    28.7       33.3     32.4
GrOss ftomWe*tIc    /GOP                     2.       .         49       14.
Cuerret scoownt balane/GP                  451       07        4.        70       Dmsi
Interest paymontslGDP                       i8       32         1.9      1.7     D     t                      Investment
Total debt/GOP              40~~~~~~8    70.7  71.0      65       Savings
Present valu &09ebtGOP                        .         .     4.         2
Indebtedness
tavrao annual grwth)                                                                       -    eea
GOP                                 2.9      3,0     5.7        5.       4.8                    eea
GNP pmcapita                       -0.1      046      3.9       2.4      2.1                   Low-income group
Exports of goocts nSW  vices        3.0      2.4~               CO28.    8.       ___________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                    ~ ~~~~1979    1989   1998      1999      Growth of Investmnent and GDP(%
Agriculture                                 23.7    19.4       17.4     17.8    15
Industry                                    15.0    16.8      24.1      25.3      . 
Manufactunng                              10.4    13.3       15.8      16.7 
Services                                    61.4    61.9       58.5     5669     05            5 9    9T        s 9
Private consumption                         80.3    78.0       76.3     75.4   .10
General government consumption              17.3    15.6       10.3     10.2                    OD      -0.GOP
Imports of goods and services              40.0    32.1       38.0      39.3     _________________
(average annua growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports(%
Agriculture                                  1.8      1.6      -1.7       6.1    15
Industry                                    4.2      4.3       8.8       7.7    i0
Manufacturing                              4.6      2.6       7.6       4.8 
Services                                     3.0     3.1        7.1       3.9  
Private consumption                          2.2      3.0       2.8      3.7           9ogrl    a g
General government consuimption              3.4    -1.7        3.2      4.7
Gross domestic investment                    4.1      3.5       7.8       9.4   .10f     
Imports of goods and services                1.7     0.7        8.0      6.6              -Expofts    --Imports
Gross national product                       2.8      3.4       6.7      5.1                                       ----________________
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonids show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamornd wAIl
be incomplete.



- 39 -
Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic pes"                               197i    1989       1998      19"9     Inflaton (%)
(% change)                                                                        40 .
Consumer prces                               9.7      0.4        1.1      2.0    30 -
Impliit GDP deflator                         9.7      0.9       2.2       1.9    20 .
Government flnance                                                                10 -
(% of GDP, incdudes current grants)                                               0o 5          I
Current revenue                              18.4    17.8       17.3     17.1    -10      94    4    go   97   go   so
Current budget balance                         ..    -0.1        5.8      5.0             -     GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplustdefidt                         ..    -2.9       -2.6     -4.0   1                                          1
TRADE
(US$ mJllions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and import vwels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          478      759       965     1,017     1,000
Groundnut                                           150         54       56
Fish                                                 70         25       31     1,200   *
Manufactures                                        167        265      281     1,000
Total imports (ri).    1,134                                    ,376    1,493      $Do   _
Food                                         ..    334        311       325      400
Fuel and energy                                     155        179      193      2_
Capital goods                                       173       211       245        o   _ _            _ _ _
Exportprtceindex(1995=100)                    ..    104         104       113           93  94  96  tl  97  go  W4
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                    ..       83        94        99                 *Exports      Kinrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    127        111       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mnilions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                816    1,255      1,538    1,621      0
Imports of goods and services              1,104    1,514      1,844    1,965      2
Resource balance                            -288    -260       -307      -344
-4
Net income                                   -79    -205         -38      -39
Net current transfers                        -48  16   53   31   4 I'll"                                            '
Current account balance                     -415     448        -289     -352       -
Financing items (net)                        265      543       312       426    -10
Changes in net reserves                      150      -95       -23       -74    -12
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)         34       31       426       486
Conversion rate (DEC, 1ocaYUS$)             212.7   319.0      590.0    591.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,122    3,269     3,324    3,275
IBRD                                        41       94         9         5
IDA                                         88      592      1,448    1,588                    F:. 620
Total debt service                           135      359       163       158          E:S45
IBRD                                         6       18         8         5                   __
IDA                                          1        6        18        15
Composition of net resouroe flo                                                                                  B: 1,586
Official grants                            148      293       241       204
Official creditors                         359      573       409      348
Private creditors                           47      -51       -27       -28          D: 56S
Foreign direct investment                    6      -15         7       169
Portfolio equity                             0     -205       -36       -39
C 1og
World Bank program
Commitments                                 32       22       233         0     A - IBRO                    E - Btlaterat
Disbursements                               27       49       108       145     B-iDA    D0- Other muliliateri  F - Private
Principalrepayments                          3       11        16        19     C-IMF                       G-Shormt-tem
Netflows                                    25       38        93       126
Interest payments                            4       13        10         1
Net transfers                               21       25        82       125
Development Economics



-40 -
Annex 12.a: Technical Specifications
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Introduction
The Distance Learning telecommunications network will provide a remote transfer of knowledge and
tighter integration of educational outreach through multimedia communications. In utilizing efficiently
and effectively modern telecommunication technology (DAMA for Demand Assigned Multiple Access),
it provides "global service" by linking the clients and appropriate knowledge resources together in a
worldwide distance leaming network comprised of interactive electronic classrooms, Intemet facilities
and international telecommunications circuits. Specifically, the Distance Learning site can take advantage
of the following:
*  voice and high speed, high capacity data and video connections simultaneously on the same network;
*  full capacity of the link to be automatically allocated among the various kinds of connections as
needed to optimize the quality by allocating satellite transmission capacity among Distance Learning
Centers based on differential demand;
*  any Center can communicate with any other Center without on intermediate stop at the World Bank
hub (mesh connectivity);
*  very low reliance on local public communication lines which are subject to significant reliability
problems in the "last mile" of the connection, thereby overcoming the significant local technical and
logistical challenges in installing such a system; and
*  cost-effective management of performnance and capacity by using a shared satellite system.
System description
The Distance Leaming System has two components - the satellite network and the office techno
logy/multi-conferencing network. The satellite network portion of the System features a VSAT (Very
Small Aperture Terminal)-sized, INTELSAT Standard "G" earth station situated at the Distance Learning
Center, equipped with dynamically-shared TDM and all other necessary earth station ancillary hardware
and software needed to enable robust voice/FAX, data and video connectivity with the other distance
leaming centers, and with the World Bank Headquarters. The office technology/multi-conferencing
network portion consists of a NT/Lotus Notes based local area network (LAN), Picturetel based video
conferencing, telephone system, fax and copier. A detailed list of equipment is attached in Annex 12.b.
Technology and Maintenance Support
The satellite network will be installed and maintained by MCI/Worldcom. The multi-conferencing and
other distance leaming center equipment will be installed and maintained by World Bank ISG staff. For
equipment procured locally, our recommendation is to contact out the support and maintenance of the
hardware. In addition, the full-time, on-site presence of a competent Information Technology staff is
mandatory for the successful operation and maintenance of the sophisticated system installed at the
Distance Learning Center. A TOR for such a position is attached in Annex 12.c. Specialized training to
operate the system will be provided by the World Bank.
Scheduling DL sessions
Using all HUGHES scheduling system, all video-conferencing sessions will be scheduled over the WEB,
so it is fully automated. Training on scheduling will be provided by the World Bank during hand-over of
the system.



-41 -
Risk
There is a risk that the technology at the Distance Learning Center will not operate satisfactorily. The
Center, although operating independently, will be under the World Bank's technology umbrella. As such,
it will receive special attention from the World Bank Network Group.



-42 -
Annex 12.b: Distance Learning Site- SENEGAL
List of Technology Equipment
BASEBAND EOUIPMENT                                                  VENDOR                          OTY
Low Density Chassis 4 Slot, Universal AC                      HUGHES NETWORK                          I
91000UMOD, CN, NR,7OMhz, DIM 50                               HUGHES NETWORK                          I
INTELSAT Channel Unit III                                     HUGHES NETWORK                          3
High Density Rack, 220V                                       HUGHES NETWORK                          I
Fax Interface Module 11(14.4 kbps), INTELSAT                  HUGHES NETWORK                          3
Installation Kit, INTELSAT                                    HUGHES NETWORK                          I
TES Remote Install Port Manual                                HUGHES NETWORK                          I
2Wire/4Wire V.35 ICM INTELSAT                                 HUGHES NETWORK                          I
CISCO 2511                                                           CISCO                            3
VSAT Equipment UPS                                                  DELTEC                            2
RF EOUIPMENT
3.8 INTELSAT H4 Antenna                                             PRODLIN                           I
RFE CN 40W 110/230V EF Data (NR)                                    EF DATA                           I
LNA Power Cable                                                     EF DATA                           I
40 deg. LNA CB                                                      EF DATA                           I
VIDEO EQUIPMENT
CODEC 4200ZX                                           PictureTel                                     1
Additional Camera PTZ                                 PictureTel                                      I
Document Camera 650                                   Cannon                                          I
Short Haul Modems VSU3556                              Eastern Research                               2
LCD Color Proiector/VGA Input DP9250                   Proxima                                        2
Projection Screen                                      Draper Clarion                                 2
T.120 APPLICATION KIT
T.120 Kit with 24 Licenses PCT330                      PictureTel & Dell                              I
AUDIO EQUIPMENT
Amplifier with Cables PS200                            Crown                                          I
Loudspeakers Control 20                               JBL                                             2
Wireless Microphones FMR/450C                          Telex                                          2
Microphones MX418D/C                                   Sure                                          12
Phone Interface APIO                                   Gentner                                        I
Audioconference System AP400 +AP800                    Gentner                                        I
AUDIO RESPONSE EQUIPMENT (OneTouch)
One Touch Site Controller                              Hughes                                         I
One Touch Key Pads                                     Hughes                                        40
One Touch License Fee                                  Hughes                                        40
LAN EQUIPMENT
Active Com Hub                                         3M                                             I
NT Server                                              Compaq                                         I
Server Printer                                         HP                                             I
LOTUS Server                                          Compaq                                          2
LS Software                                           Notes                                           I
Router                                                 CISCO                                          2
CAT 5 Data Wiring                                     Local Vendor                                    I
OFFICE AUTOMATION EQUIPMENT
Personal Computers (Pentium IllIII)                    Local Vendor                                  40
Scaner                                                 Local Vendor                                   I
Plain Paper Fax Machine                                Local Vendor                                   I
Copier*                                                Local Vendor                                   I
Telephone Lines                                        Local Vendor                                   3
PABX/Telephone Sets                                   Local Vendor                                    10
TV RECEIVE ONLY
TV Monitors                                            Local Vendor                                   3
VHS Recorders                                          Local Vendor                                   3
MPEG2 Receiving System                                 WEGNER                                         I
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT                                                VENDOR                          OTY
UPS (35KW)                                             Local Vendor                                   1
Generator (45KW)                                       Local Vendor                                   I



-43 -
Annex 12.c: Terms of Reference
Distance Learning Information Technology Staff
Senegal: Distance Learning Project - LIL
Primary Skills/Qualifications
* Superior analytical and problem solving skills;
* Five years minimum experience with PC hardware and software support, including extensive
knowledge of configuration and repair issues. Experience should include support of notebook
computers and PC Card accessories for notebooks;
* High proficiency in the use Windows NT, Lotus Notes, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and anti-virus
software);
* Proficiency in designing Web pages and managing page content;
* Working knowledge of client server technology and general network connectivity and maintenance
issues (e.g., servers, hubs, routers, Ethernet cabling); Experience with network administration highly
desirable;
*  Working knowledge of telecommunications equipment and software (e.g., PABX telephone
configuration, and modems);
* Working knowledge of videoconferencing equipment, (experience with PictureTel systems highly
desirable);
* Basic understanding of satellite technology (e.g. current uses and practices).
Additional Skills
* Must be a self-starter and possess the ability to apply knowledge and expertise to deliver high-quality
work and to self-manage work program;
*  Ability to work in a team environment and to develop technology solutions that encourage the use of
collaborative computing;
A Demonstrated ability to assist end-users in learning standard software applications through
demonstrations, written guides, etc.
Other Requirements
University degree preferably in Computer Science and two years relevant experience in the computer
industry, or high school diploma and five years of highly relevant experience in the computer industry.
Duties and Responsibilities
* Support the Distance Learning Center's technology infrastructure;
* Maintain and support NT and Lotus Notes client-server environment (40+ PCs), and administer
NT/Notes activities (e.g., user names and login activity, services, regular maintenance and backup
procedures, network printer connectivity, file services and IP connectivity);
*  Conduct regular maintenance and troubleshooting on existing office and communication technology
equipment;
* Participate in the design, installation, configuration and activation of new technology and
communication services at the Distance Learning Center;
* Maintain an up-to-date inventory of office equipment and software;
* Provide expert advice and guidance to DL clients on hardware, and software.



-44 -
Additional Responsibilities
*  Assist with hardware and software procurement and maintenance, evaluate local technology vendors,
ensuring adherence to existing standards;
*  Provide proper security of equipment and data by ensuring that equipment is either locked or secured
in place, and any data coming from outside agencies is thoroughly screened for viruses before being
introduced in Distance Learning systems;
* Establish regular contact with the other Distance Learning IT staff for the purpose of sharing
experiences\best practices, etc.
Remain abreast of the latest IT developments by maintaining regular contacts with outside vendors.



