Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3398-SE
Project Agreement
(Distance Learning Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
Dated July 5, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3398-SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER (DLC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that DLC 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DLC the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to DLC on terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS DLC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
Page  2
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DLC declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, DLC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Procedures Manual, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
DLC shall not amend, abrogate or waive any  provision thereof if in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment, abrogation or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) DLC shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, DLC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and 
DLC, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with DLC on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. DLC shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Page  3
DLC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DLC shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
DLC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by DLC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DLC
Section 3.01. DLC shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. DLC shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. DLC shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DLC shall maintain records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations 
and financial condition.
(b)
DLC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report 
of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, 
accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof as the 
Page  4
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, DLC shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable DLC, not later than 
eighteen months after the Effective Date or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and  
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the 
Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the 
six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii) 
(A)
describes physical progress in the 
implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B)
explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast 
implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, DLC shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of  each calendar quarter, a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of DLC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate; or
(ii) 
the date ten years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the 
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
Page  5
shall promptly notify DLC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For DLC:
Boulevard Dial DIOP
Dakar
Senegal
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of DLC or by DLC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development 
Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Director, or by such 
other person or persons as DLC shall designate in writing, and DLC shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Page  6
Africa
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
