Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2968-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KARNATAKA TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 26, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of February 17, 1981)
US$1.00         =     Rs 8.199251
Rs 1.00               Rs 0.12648
Rs 1 million          US$126,480
(Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made
at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40, which represents the projected
exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
OI         -    Government of India
GOK         -    Government of Karnataka
O&M         -    Operation and Maintenance



FOR OFF]ICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:         The State of Karnataka (GOK).
Amount:              SDR 43.5 million (US$54 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    GOI to the State of Karnataka:  financing as part of
Central assistance to the State for development projects,
on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Project
Description:       The project would finance construction, over a four-year
period, of 120-160 tank irrigation schemes throughout
the State of Karnataka estimated to irrigate about 25,000
ha. The project would also assist GOK in creating an
improved hydrological data base for planning, design and
construction of future minor irrigation projects.
Finally, a study aimed at improving utilization of irri-
gation water would be conducted.
The main project risk concerns the uncertainty of long-
term projections of average annual water runoff into tanks.
Adequate account of this fact has been taken in calculat-
ing costs and benefits under this project. Thae risks are
not considered to be significantly higher than can be
expected of an irrigation project.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofElcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auth,orization.



- 11 -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                        (US$ Millions)
Local   ForeLgn   Total
Construction of Tank
Irrigation Schemes           54.3       8.1     62.4
Rainfall and Stream
Gauging Equipment             0.4       -        0.4
Technical Assistance &
Training                      0.1        -       0.1
Base Cost                  54.8       8.1     62.9
Price Contingencies            12.6       1.9      14.5
Total Project Cost         67.4      10.0     77.4
Financing Plan:                                          (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                            44.0      10.0     54.0
GOK                            23.4       -        23.4
67.4     10.0      77.4
Estimated                                           (US$ Million)
Disbursements:                         FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Annual             4.0    10.0   14.0   16.0   10.0
Cumulative         4.0    14.0   28.0   44.0   54.0
Rate of Return:      20%
Staff Appraisal Report No. 3239-IN, dated February 26, 1981.
1/   Including taxes and duties, which are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE KARNATAKA TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit to India in an amount of SDR 43.5 million (US$54 million) on
standard IDA terms to help finance construction of tank irrigation schemes in
the State of Karnataka.  The proceeds of the credit would be channelled to the
Government of Karnataka in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrange-
ments for the financing of State development projects. The exchange risk
would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN), dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure graps on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in
(1970/71 prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79.
The share of industry has increased over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%.
But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has
led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing
countries. The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is 21%
now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate
of GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agricul-
ture--2.5% per annum over the same period--has constrained overall growth,
not only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because
scarce foreign exchange has often been required to import food.  Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1978/79, but this growth has not been as high as in many other countries,
nor as high as required if the overall growth of the economy is to be
accelerated. Slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditabLe domestic
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project
(Report No. P-2961-IN), dated February 18, 1981.



-2-
saving and investment performance. Gross domestic saving more than doubled
from, 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in 1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic
investment as a fraction of GDP rose from 10% in 1950/51 to just over 24%
in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; by the
end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much lower levels. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. As a result, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets,
particularly in the nearby Middle east, contributed to this process, adjust-
ments in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports
played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79 growth in real GDP (at factor cost),
agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%, 2.8% and
7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally better
growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76. However,
GNP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result of the
drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input constraints in
other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-term picture.
Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the
production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as con-
straints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and transportation.
As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price stability that
characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close
of fiscal year 1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1979 the price index
rose sharply, so that by September it stood at 18.4% above that of the previous
September. Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and fall of 1979 but in most
markets still prevailed close to the Government's ration prices. Low income
groups in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at stable prices
through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks of foodgrains
also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employment program for
low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and
have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each
year, fell about 8-9% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production is estimated to have
declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-120 million tons in 1979/80.



- 3 -
Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after two succes-
sive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved--still the
fourth highest in Indian history--provides a measure of the contribution that
expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Indian agricul-
ture. Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to counteract
drought conditions was not adequately tested because of the diesel shortages
which inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in
the use of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued. Additions
to the area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million hectares
during the five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 million additional
hectares a year during the most recent three-year period. Fertilizer consump-
tion in 1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level almost 80% higher
than in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenometnon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30%, in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largelyi on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relationt both to
GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which hlas barely
grown since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in the
quantum of manufactured non-traditional exports which had contributed much
to the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong
domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated until recently by apparent
lessened interest in export promotion, have been the major causal factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports--which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments--have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited
to raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80.  The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of export:s now exceed
50%.



-4-
Development Prospects
10.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.       The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the process
of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period 1981-86
is being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83. At this
stage it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy; however,
it is unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power will be
lessened. Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the world economy
during 1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which will need the
attention of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context of development
strategy that the new Government may adopt. Among these issues are the fol-
lowing: (a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in
production of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options
emerging in agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources
for imported petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance
of payments in the near future.
12.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to existing
demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally low growth
in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services, steel and
cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted from large
investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these input bottle-
necks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic produc-
tion appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative advantage, and
the aim of policy is self-sufficiency. All these are tradeable commodities.
Although in 1979/80 they were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate
the shortages, increased short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to
alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using industries. In the case of
sectors in which there is no option to import the final product--power and
transportation--the planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial.
Although there is scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these
sectors, major investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as
new capacity are needed in order to provide adequate and stable growth in the
medium term. The presence of infrastructural constraints and shortages of
basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the expansion of industrial output
leads to competing claims on scarce resources which must be efficiently allo-
cated among different industries.



13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 50% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the devielopment of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential.  However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past pla..ning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program. The interdependence in
the economy currently make petroleum demand a residual which is contingent
on the operation of many other sectors and which has significant implications
for the balance of payments.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, develop-
ment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India should end the 1979/80 rabi season
with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without ha"ring imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but also
reflects the trends of the last decade which point to a consistent improvement
in foodgrain availability in the economy. In view of the acceleration in the
use of agricultural inputs and the projected fall in the population growth
rate, the long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look
favorable. Persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a
wide range of policy options will become much more practical as the overriding
emphasis on foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly
falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains
to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and prices,
and diversification to the production of other higher value crops. This pros-
pect will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic
break with past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects. Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp decline in the reserve level is expected in 1980/81. At best, India's
reserves may provide a cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional
on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in
oil price rises.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place
a difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year PlaLn. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,



- 6 -
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around 1.6%
by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate of
population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level) will
only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of India
is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over the
mid-1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has played an important role
in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of a
further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a successful
official family planning program. The family planning performance data for
1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from
the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods during
1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all
contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popu-
lation growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More
than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. In addition to marginal holdings of physical assets, the poor are
ill-endowed with human resources, being disproportionately represented among
the illiterate, the malnourished and those having otherwise poor health status.
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent
on the overall growth of the economy, mainly on productivity increases in agri-
culture and non-farm rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment
opportunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely
from market forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate
government policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for
direct government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though
the scope for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite
limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small
farmers and rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of those
services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living
standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program which
has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress
has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension
of rural health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies.
Recent innovations, including the community health volunteer program and the
national adult literacy campaign, are encouraging evidence that well-targeted,
relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,672 million (both net
of cancellations), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,133 mil:lion had
been repaid, and US$4,107 million was undisbursed as of January 31, 1981. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through January 31,
1981, totalled US$373 million, representing an increase of about 20% over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling US$110.6
million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 million, US$46.2 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC opera-
tions as of January 31, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations
and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways.   Family planning,
water supply development, and urban investments have also received Bank Group
support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities.  The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projiects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in the
agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and
urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy
to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infrastructure
and industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which have recently
emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power and
transportation.



- 8 -
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater deter-
ioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's
external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and
should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds
that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's
needs for external support, and India should be regarded as creditworthy for
some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level
of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through
1995/96. As of January 31, 1981, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank
totalled US$1,766 million, of which US$561 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,206 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 64%, 60% and over
100% respectively, in 1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding and
disbursed external public debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$5.2 billion or 34% (IDA'S US$4.5 billion and IBRD's US$0.7 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1979/80,
about 18% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN KARNATAKA
Agriculture
26.       The State of Karnataka has an area of 19.1 million hectares and
a population of about 35.5 million (1979). About 70% of the labor force is
employed in agriculture, which contributes about 45-50% of the State's income.
During the last two decades, the State's population grew at about 2.2% per
annum and its income grew at 3.5%, resulting in an increase in per capita
income of 1.3% per annum. Agricultural production in the State grew at 2.9%,
slightly higher than the 2.2% for India as a whole. Yet, average rural per
capita income in Karnataka is only about US$92, and about 70% of the rural
population lives at or below the poverty threshold, estimated to be about
US$93 for rural India.



- 9 -
27.       Karnataka forms the southwestern part of the Deccan Peninsula.
Most of the State is on a plateau, bordered in the west by a coastal strip and
the Western Ghats (up to 1,500 meters in altitude) and tapering off in altitude
from the Chats towards the east. Karnataka includes four distinct physiographic
zones (see map)--coastal plain, Western Ghats, Northern Plateau and Southern
Plateau--each with different topography, soils and rainfall. It has a
tropical monsoon climate and receives the major portion of rainEall between
early June and the end of September. The rainfalls are uncertain with long
dry spells. Over half of the total area of the State, inhabited by nearly one
half of the population, is drought-prone. These conditions make irrigation
important for successful crop production even during the monsoon season.
28.        Karnataka has three cropping seasons: Kharif (usually June-October),
Rabi (November-February), and hot weather (February-May). Most of the crop-
ping takes place during the Kharif season, Rabi crops are grown on residual
soil moisture, with occasional rainfall or with irrigation; limited cropping
takes place during the hot season except where perennial irrigation is avail-
able. Paddy is the most important cereal crop and cotton and sugarcane are
the most important cash crops. Other crops include sorghum, millets, maize,
wheat, pulses, oilseed and mulberry.
irrigation
29.       Three of India's four major river systems--the Krishna, Godavari
and Cauvery--traverse the State, originating in the Western Ghats and flowing
through the Deccan Plateau before discharging in the Bay of Bengal. These
rivers drain about 80% of the State's area while the remaining 20% lies in
basins of smaller rivers. The total discharge of the State's rivers is esti-
mated at nearly 100,000 million cubic meters, about half of which could be
utilized for irrigation. The potential for development of these large surface
water resources, however, is limited, inter alia, by two major factors. First,
all tributaries of the major rivers are seasonal, and even in the case of the
perennial rivers, more than 90% of flow occurs during the rainy season when
the irrigation need is the lowest. Second, all major rivers have part of their
catchment in other States requiring inter-State agreements on water sharing.
The State's total groundwater potential is estimated at 11,700 cubic meters.
But because the plateau areas are underlain by crystalline rocks, conditions
for groundwater aquifers are very poor.
30.       As compared to the potential, 33% of the area is irrligated--1.9
million ha compared to a total potential of 5.8 million ha--measured in terms
of gross irrigated area (including double cropped area). So far, only 37% of
the surface irrigation potential and 21% of the groundwater potental have been
utilized, indicating ample scope for further development. Groundwater resources
are, however, constrained by geological and economic considerations for many
parts of the State. Groundwater irrigation development is mainly carried
out by private initiative supported by institutional credit (paragraphs 35
and 36).



- 10 -
Trends in Irrigation Development
31.       Before Independence (1947), the area under irrigation was less
than 5% of the total area under cultivation, and almost all of the irrigation
came from tanks, 1/ bhandaras (small diversions weirs) and dugwells. A large
number of major and medium projects 2/ have been constructed since the
Independence. As a result, area irrigated by major and medium projects has
been increasing. Between 1960/61 and 1977/78, the total net irrigated area
grew at 2.5% per annum, mostly from major and medium irrigation which accounted
for 40% of the irrigated areas. In spite of this growth, only about 13% of the
net area sown in the State is irrigated, which is one of the lowest proportions
in India and far below the national average of 30%. The gross irrigated area
(that is, including multiple cropping) accounts only for about 15% of the gross
cropped area--less than half the national average.
32.       There is a wide variation in the level of irrigation development
between regions of the State. The high rainfall areas (hilly and coastal
zones) have a higher proportion of their cultivated land irrigated than the
low rainfall areas (dry and transitional zones). However between 1960/61 and
1977/78, virtually all of the increase in irrigation occurred in the low
rainfall areas (dry and transitional zones). This indicates that, in recent
years, GOK's investment policy for irrigation has largely been oriented toward
an equalization of the level of irrigation development in different parts of
the State. Special emphasis has been given to projects in drought prone and
economically backward areas. A high proportion of irrigation development in
the high rainfall areas has been mainly due to private investments in ground-
water, river lift schemes and both public and private tanks; on the other hand,
a large part of the irrigated areas developed in dry and transitional zones
were under major and medium schemes (canals).
Tank Irrigation
33.       Karnataka has a centuries-long history of tank irrigation.  At present,
there are about 41,000 tanks widely dispersed throughout the State. Of these,
about 25,000 (those with a command area above four hectares) are owned and oper-
ated by the State's Irrigation Department, and the rest are under the Taluk 3/
Development Boards. Together, the 41,000 tanks cover a nominal command area of
about 850,000 ha, but the actual irrigated area is probably not more than
350,000 ha mainly due to siltation. GOK is now allocating high priority to
the development of irrigation. Given the limited scope for further groundwater
development, GOK plans to accelerate developmment of surface irrigation proj-
ects. Minor (surface) irrigation projects have high priority because of their
short gestation period and because of their effect on regional equity and rural
1/   A small earthen reservoir built to store seasonal runoff from streams and
minor rivers mainly during rainy season and to release as required.
2/   Irrigation schemes with command area below 2,000 ha are defined as minor
irrigation, those between 2,000 ha and 10,000 ha as medium and those over
10,000 ha as major irrigation.
3/   A Taluk is an administrative subdivision of a District.



- 11 -
poverty. During the period 1980/81 to 1984/85, GOK plans to invest US$108
million for construction of new tanks and lift irrigation schemes and for
repairs of the existing schemes.
34.       A performance review of a number of existing tank irrigation systems
in Karnataka has identified many shortcomings in the planning, design, imple-
mentation and management of these tanks. The hydrological data base is typic-
ally poor, which compels the reservoirs to be based on empirical formulae
rather than actual rainfall/runoff relationships observed at the site. Only
recently have actual measurements at a few sites started. Silting of reservoirs
is another problem, caused by unstable, overcultivated catchment areas or by
excessive forest clearing. The distribution system in most cases consists of
unlined main canals leading to long and uncontrolled field channels. Along
the entire length of a channel, 40-80% of the head discharge is lost. Operation
of tanks is presently regulated by a Government Officer in consultation with
the Taluk Development Committee consisting of concerned Government: officials and
farmers' representatives. Informal arrangements for water-sharing exist inside
the outlet command but these arrangements often result in inequitable distribution
of water.
Bank Group Involvement
35.       The Bank Group has been involved in Karnataka through a number of
projects, mainly in the agricultural sector. The Mysore Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. 278-IN of January 1971, which was fully disbursed by June 1977)
provided US$40 million to finance agricultural loans to farmers, mostly for
minor irrigation schemes. The Performance Audit Report (Report No. 2892 of
April 1980) on this project concluded that the project exceeded its target in
terms of numbers of minor irrigation investments financed (51,000 wells and
27,000 pumpsets verses 16,000 wells estimated at appraisal). Also against
appraisal expectations, farmers preferred by far the more economical and less
risky dugwells against borewells. However, only half of the wells and about
two thirds of the pumpset investments financed under the project were com-
pleted at the end of the project period; the balance was completed under IDA's
first and second line of credit to ARDC (Credits 540-IN and 715-IN). In spite
of a higher number of units carried out, total irrigated area increased only
modestly due to a smaller benefiting area per well than was estimated at
appraisal. Moreover, cost per well turned out to be higher than anticipated.
Nevertheless, groundwater investments, where feasible, proved to be economi-
cally well justified and financially profitable to farmers.
36.       Bank Group financing of minor irrigation schemes has since been
continued through IDA's lines of credit to the Agricultural Refinance and Devel-
opment Corporation. The Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project
(Cr. 378-IN of May 1973) is providing US$8 million to establish 39 markets in
strategic locations. A US$30 million credit for the Karnataka Dairy Develop-
ment Project (Cr. 526-IN of June 1974) is designed to support dairy development
along the lines of the successful Amul cooperative dairy system. A multi-State
agricultural project, the US$35 million Drought Prone Areas Development Project
(Cr. 526-IN of January 1975) includes one Karnataka district and is progress-
ing well. In May 1978, a US$126 million credit was provided for the Karnataka
Irrigation Project (Cr. 788-IN) to irrigate about 105,000 ha of land. This



- 12 -
project finances a five-year time slice of development of the Upper Krishna
major irrigation project, estimated to require 15 years for completion. After
initial delays the project is progressing fairly well. The Second National
Seed Project (Cr. 816-IN of July 1978) and the Composite Agriculture Extension
Project (Cr. 862-IN of February 1979) finance agricultural seed development and
agricultural research and extension activities, respectively, in Karnataka among
other States. A US$54 million credit for the Karnataka Sericulture Project
(Cr. 1034-IN of October 1980) is financing the integrated development of seri-
culture in the State. Non-agricultural activities of the Bank Group include
family planning and nutrition activities under the Population Project
(Cr. 312-IN of June 1972, which was completed in March 1980).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project was prepared by the Irrigation Department of the Govern-
ment of Karnataka (GOK) in collaboration with the GOI's Ministry of Agriculture
Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell. The project was appraised in August
1980, and negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in February 1981. The
Borrower and GOK were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S.C. Jain,
Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 3239-IN) is being circulated separately. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
38.       The main objective of the project is to provide an economic and
reliable supply of irrigation water to farmers in those areas of the State
of Karnataka where development of large scale irrigation is not feasible,
through the development of tank irrigation. Although the tank schemes are
generally more expensive in terms of per hectare cost than medium and large
irrigation projects, they have the d4ztinct advantage of short gestation
periods and they provide opportunities for regionally balanced development
due to their access to areas where large scale irrigation is not possible.
39.       Another important objective of the project is institutional improve-
ment at both the implementation and utilization stages. This would be achieved,
on the one hand, by strengthening GOK's capability to prepare, appraise, super-
vise and evaluate irrigation projects and, on the other hand, by attempting to
increase farmers' participation in the operation of tank irrigation projects.
Finally, the proposed project also aims at significant improvements in the
hydrological data base and in the methodology of forecasting catchment run-
off for future minor irrigation projects in the State.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project would finance construction, over a four-year
period, of 120 to 160 new tank irrigation schemes throughout the State, esti-
mated to irrigate some 25,000 ha. Each tank would generally consist of an
earthfill reservoir, a fully lined canal network, a system of field channels
and a drainage network connected to natural drains. Over half of the total
cultivable command area under the proposed project is expected to be located



- 13 -
in dry and transitional zones of the State and another one-third in zones of
higher but still unreliable rainfall. The number of tanks to be constructed
and the total area to come under irrigation would, however, depend on the
average cost per hectare. The cost per hectare is subject to some uncertainty
at this stage, since only a fraction of the planned tanks have been fully
designed and costed. The command area of individual tanks would vary between
20 and 2,000 ha, subject to topography and water availability. GOK intends
to build one-third of the tanks financed under the project in the size group
between 20 and 100 ha, another third between 100 to 200 ha and t.he balance over
200 ha; -he average size would be about 200 ha.  The weighted average cost
per hectare of cultivated command area is estimated at about US'$2,500 (in
1980 prices). This compares to about US$1,300 to 1,500 per ha for medium and
major irrigation projects in India. This relatively high unit cost for tank
irrigation schemes is due to diseconomies of scale, but it is compensated
partly by short gestation of these tank schemes which would be located in
areas where other forms of irrigation would not be feasible.
41.        In view of the large number and proposed dispersion oE the schemes
throughout the State, detailed appraisal of each tank by the Association
would be impractical. Therefore, criteria for planning, design, approval,
implementation and operation have been developed by GOI, IDA and GOK for the
schemes to be financed under the credit. The proposed tank schemes would
follow these criteria (Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement).
42.       Design and construction standards for the comparatively small dams
of most tank schemes would follow sound engineering practice, and adequate
quality control would be provided under the proposed organization (see para-
graph 46). However, there would be a few tanks which, due to their larger
size, would warrant special attention to design and construction standards of
dams and related structures, as well as regular maintenance. A special panel
of experts has been constituted by GOK to undertake reviews of plans, designs
and construction of these larger dams to ensure their general safety during
construction. The terms of reference and the qualifications and experience of
the panel of experts, which have become standard for IDA-financed projects,
have been discussed with GOK and are acceptable to the Association. The
larger dams shall be periodicaily inspected under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.08 of the Project Agreement).
43.       To improve the hydrological data base for planning of future tank
schemes, about 1,000 new fiberglass rain gauges would be insta]led to supple-
ment approximately 220 rain gauge sites that presently meet Indian Metero-
logical Department (IMD) standards. In order to improve the data base for
smaller catchments, 100 new stream discharge measuring sites would supplement
the existing 124 sites throughout the State. To improve estimation of evapo-
transpiration rates for various agroclimatic zones within the State, six new
hydro-meterological stations would supplement the existing 45 stations. The
new facilities would be equipped with improved instruments. To improve the
hydrological forecasting of catchment runoff, a computer-based simulation/
estimation model would be developed, for which a provision wouLd be made for
technical assistance. Improved estimates of water availability will assure
a sound investment program in the future.



- 14 -
44.       To increase farmers' participation in the operation of the tank
irrigation facilities, a study of possible approaches to water users' organi-
zations would investigate existing arrangements and means of cooperation and
would recommend means for establishing viable and effective participation of
the users in operation and maintenance of the facilities. It would also
include recommendations for a revised system of water charges conducive to
effective participation of farmers and to increased water use efficiency, based
on improved standards of design and operation of the water distribution system.
This study is expected to be carried out by the Indian Institute of Management
in Bangalore. GOK would complete this study not later than March 31, 1983,
based on terms of reference agreed with the Association (Section 3.02 of the
Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
45.       The direct responsibility for planning, implementation, operation
and maintenance of tank irrigation schemes rests with the Minor Irrigation Wing
of the Karnataka Irrigation Department. The Department is headed by a Special
Secretary who reports directly to the State's Chief Secretary. The Department's
organization is flexible and can readily be adjusted to the workload. At
present, it has ten Chief Engineers each with a separate functional and/or
regional responsibility, including two Minor Irrigation Wings divided into the
Northern and Southern regions, each under a Chief Engineer who reports directly
to the Special Secretary. The two Chief Engineers are assisted by ten Superin-
tending Engineers.
46.       To improve the implementation capacity of the Minor Irrigation Wing
under the project, a Project Formulation Cell has been established under each
of the two regional Chief Engineers. The Cells would prepare tank schemes for
appraisal according to the agreed criteria (paragraph 41). In addition, two
Quality Control Divisions have been established under separate Superintending
Engineers to ensure appropriate standards in the construction of the tanks.
Most staff for these two Cells and two Divisions have been recruited and the
remaining staff are expected to be appointed by March 31, 1981.
47.       A Minor Irrigation Committee has been established under the chair-
manship of the Special Secretary of the Irrigation Department, consisting of
representatives of the Irrigation and Agriculture Departments, University of
Agricultural Sciences and other research institutions. The Committee would
supervise the works of a Special Appraisal and Supervision Circle (SASC),
established under a Superintending Engineer who would also act as the Secre-
tary of the Committee. He would be supported by two Appraisal Divisions and
two Monitoring and Evaluation Divisions. These Appraisal Divisions would be
responsible for appraising all tanks; in addition, IDA would randomly select
at least two tanks annually for in-depth appraisal.  The appointment of the
staff for SASC is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.
48.       In order to improve overall tank operations, a Tank Irrigation Com-
mittee would be formed for each new tank command area immediately after a
scheme has been sanctioned for the respective location. The Committee would
be consulted before finalization of detailed designs, so as to ensure a more



- 15 -
active participation of farmers. After construction, at least t:wice a year
before each irrigation season, local staff of the Irrigation Department would
consult and agree with the Committee on the details of scheduling water delivery
for the coming season. The Department would remain in charge of- physical
execution of maintenance works for the tank and distribution/drainage system
(except field channels), but would share the responsibility for O&M with the
Committee. Each Committee would consist of an appropriate number of farmer
representatives, an agricultural officer and a junior engineer who would be
responsible for preparing schedules for water delivery according to the
decision of the Committee. The detailed features of the composition, organ-
ization and the sharing of responsibilities would be finalized after the study
on water user's organization is completed. In the meantime, GOK would have
full responsibility for operation and maintenance.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost is estimated at US$77.4 million, including a
foreign exchange component of US$10.0 million or about 13% of total cost.
Taxes and duties are insignificant. Included in the costs are: US$62.4
million for the construction of the tank schemes, US$0.4 million for rainfall
and stream gauging equipment, US$0.1 million for technical assistance and
training, including the water users' organizational study, and US$14.5 million
for price contingencies.
50.       The proposed credit of US$54 million would finance about 70% of total
costs. GOI would channel the credit proceeds to GOK in accordance with standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India. All project
expenditures would be met by GOK from its development budget, which includes a
GOI contribution.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Civil works under the project would be individually small and scat-
tered over the whole State. Construction would be seasonal and carried out
through labor-intensive methods. Consequently, it would neither be feasible
nor economic to group them into large contracts. The present practice of GOK
is to award most of the construction work for dams, spillways and main canals
after local competitive bidding (LCB), and the practice would be followed under
the proposed project. For contracts costing more than the equivalent of
US$200,000, review by IDA of tender documents and award recommendation would
be required prior to award. Some minor works would be awarded under small unit
price contracts or be carried out through GOK's Employment Affirmation Scheme.
Departmental work would be used only when required by safety or quality con-
siderations. The stream and rain gauging equipment and the computing equipment
would consist of small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$100,000 for
each order. These items would be procured through competitive bidding adver-
tised locally.
52.       Disbursements would be made for: (i) 100% of the foreign exchange
cost; (ii) 100% of the cost of local goods procured ex-factory; (iii) 70% of
the cost of other locally procured goods; (iv) 100% of expenditures incurred
on technical assistance and training; and (v) 85% of expenditures on civil



- 16 -
works. Full documentations would be required for all disbursement, except for
payments of up to Rs 300,000 for civil works and Rs 150,000 for equipment, and
for departmental work, for which disbursements would be made against statements
of expenditures submitted by GOK. Supporting documents for these payments
would be retained by GOK and made available for inspection by IDA during the
course of review missions. The procedures for statements of expenditures have
been well established under the on-going Karnataka Irrigation Project (Cr.
788-IN) and are satisfactory to IDA.
Cost Recovery
53.       The investment cost for individual tank schemes varies with the
size and topographical conditions of the command area. On average, the total
capital cost per hectare is estimated at about Rs 21,300, and the operation and
maintenance cost is estimated at about Rs 85 per ha annually. Thus, the total
annualized cost, at 10% interest over 50 years, would be about Rs 2,230 per ha.
Prevailing water rates vary with crops, but an average water charge of about
Rs 106 per ha can be expected. Land revenue differs for rainfed and irrigated
land; the project would result in an incremental revenue of Rs 24 per ha.
Other local taxes are estimated at 60% of land revenue. Therefore, consider-
ing all water related charges, annual cost recovery would amount to about
Rs 144 per ha of cultivable command area. This equals about 6.5% of the annual
capital and operation and maintenance cost. At full development, the average
"project rent" (net incremental income less appropriate rewards to family
labor, entrepeneurship and allowance for cultivation risk) is'estimated
to be about Rs 2,800 per ha. Direct recovery from benefiting farmers would
result in an average rent recovery of about 5%. There would be considerable
variations of this ratio depending on agricultural conditions, farm size, etc.
However, there is ample scope for increases in the level of water charges
after the project completion.
54.       In addition to the direct cost recovery, GOK's revenues would
increase through incremental sales taxes and market fees by about Rs 380 per
ha of land brought under irrigation. Together with water-related charges,
GOK's annual tax revenue would thus increase to a total of about Rs 524 per
ha, equivalent to about 25% of estimated annual capital and operation and
maintenance costs under the prevailing system of water charges and taxes.
55.       Cost recovery with present levels of water charges would be unsatis-
factory under the proposed project. Under the present system, a Statewide
uniform rate is charged (for a given crop on a per acre/per season basis)
in all public irrigation schemes because of administrative difficulties of
assessing benefits individually for each farmer. Large variations in benefits
occur not only between different farmers in the same command area (e.g., due
to farm size, soil quality and location within the scheme) but also between
projects and between different types of schemes (large and medium surface
water schemes, tanks, etc.). It can be observed in existing projects that
the water supplied to tail-end farmers is often unreliable--due to design and
condition of the distribution system--and that benefits to those farmers are
fairly low. Thus, water rates are set at a low level to give tail-end farmers
sufficient incentive to use the water, although the "average" farmer would be
able to pay substantially higher charges. The same reasoning applies also to
qualitative differences between irrigation schemes and types of irrigation.



- 17 -
Until it is technically and administratively feasible to implement volumetric
water charges. which better reflect the benefits accruing to each farmer,
water charges will remain at an inherently low level.
56.       Under the proposed project, design standards and operational
criteria for water distribution aim at an improved water supply, with
essentially equitable and measurable quantities to be delivered to all
participating farmers on a rotational basis. This would allow methods of
charging for irrigation services more closely related to the amount of
water aztually used by individual farmers (e.g., by recording the time
periods of actual flow to a holding). Greater reliability of service and
benefits derived therefrom can be expected to change farmers' attitudes
towards payment for such service. The proposed water user's organization
study on would include recommendations as to what methods of assessing,
administering and collecting water charges would be suitable to promote
an efficient water use, equitable charges and an acceptable cost recovery,
given the improved design and operation of distribution systems. On the basis
of such recommendations, GOK would, by March 1984, review the method and the
level of charges for irrigation water supply in tank irrigation projects in
Karnataka and would, after due consideration of IDA's comments, introduce an
appropriate system and level of such charges, with the objective of recovering
the operation and maintenance cost of such tanks and the investment cost to
the extent possible, given the need for incentives to participating farmers
and their payment capacity (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
57.       The project would directly benefit 7,500-8,500 farm families, 60% of
whom live in moderately to severely drought prone areas, and would increase
net irrigated area by about 25,000 ha. Annual production increases generated
by the project at full development (about 1990) are estimated at about 63,000
tons of cereals and pulses valued at Rs 69 million and cash crops valued at
Rs 105 million. The project would create the equivalent of some 12,000-13,000
fulltime jobs. Per capita income of farmers in dry and transitional areas
presently ranges between Rs 400 and 1,300 per year depending upon the size
of farms. The proposed project would increase the per capita income of the
beneficiaries to between Rs 1,300 and Rs 5,700. The economic rate of return
from the project is estimated at 20%.
58.       The main project risk relates to the uncertainty of long-term water
runoff to the tanks. Methods presently used in Karnataka for estimation of
annual inflow into a reservoir are based on formulae which estimate runoff
yield of a catchment on the basis of mean seasonal rainfall in the catchment,
given certain catchment characteristics. Although the proposed project would
improve runoff yield estimates by actual streamflow measurements and a more
accurate prediction model, there will always be errors in prediction to
varying degrees, which cause a potential risk to a project's viability by
reducing the benefits below their appraisal level. However, since there are
no indications that the presently available methods are significantly biased
towards either under- or over-estimation, the overall project outcome as an
average over many dispersed tank irrigation projects faces a diversified--i.e.,
low--risk, even with less accurate runoff estimation methods.



- 18 -
59.       The results of a study undertaken by GOK to test the reliability of
presently used runoff estimation methods indicates that the actual inflow into
a reservoir may be assumed to be not less than 65% of the estimate with 90%
probability. For the proposed project, a reduction of average water supply
by 35% relative to appraisal assumptions would still result in an economic
rate of return of about 14%.
60.       The project's economic viability was also tested for its sensitivity
to deviations from basic values for key parameters, such as crop yields at
full development, input costs, output prices, water requirements, and cost
of and delays in construction. It was found that even substantial adverse
changes of benefit and cost parameters would not be likely to reduce the
economic rate of return to below 12%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Karnataka, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 26, 1981



INNEX I
Page I of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV1RAGES
LAND                    KM-A (THOUSAND SO.           MOST RECENT ESTIMATE- _
TOTAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                                MOST RECENT       tLW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb  ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                  60.0        100.0     190.0             212.4                 1114. 7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     108. 0j5    141.Ojc   176.0/c            166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9       547.6     643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 11.9        19.7      21.7               20.8                   39. 1
POPtlLATIWN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION TN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      l145.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. E-.                      132.0       167.0      196.0             193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       308.0     353.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-!4 YRS.                         40.0        42.5      41.4               42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.5        54.6      55.6               55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3. 5        2. 9      3.0                3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GR4WTN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAI                              1.9         2.5        2.0               2.2                    2.4
URBAN                              2.Sld       3.3        3.3               3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0        40.0      35.0               37.4                   28. 7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.0        17.0       14.0              14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         2.9        2.4               2.6                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0      3782.0    4714.0
UJSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        12.0       16.9              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0     103.0              101.4                  115.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0      91.0               92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0       50.0              49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0       13.0              12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0        22.0       18.0              17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.0         48.0      51.0               50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       134.0        ..                 ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *         17.0       33.0              30.2                   42. 4
URBAN                               ..        60.0       83.0              66.0                   62.1
RURAL                               ..         6. 0      20.0              20.0                   29. 7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0               17.7                   52. 8
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0               71.3                   71.1
RUPAL                               ..         1. 0       2.0                *.                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5800. O/e    4890.0    3617.0            6322.7                 4120. 1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.Ol/e   5220.0    5675.0             9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149. O/f    1629.0    1289.0            1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          ..        5.2
URBAN                              5. 2         ..       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8 
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
'URBAN                              ..
Pl AL                               ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIATE )-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOMF4
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         72.0       80. 0              80.9                    98.6
MALE                  80.0         87.0       95.0               94. 3                   99.2
FEMALE                40.0         55.0       64.0               66. 7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         29.0       28.0               26.6                    55.5
MALE                  30.0         39.0       38.0               34.8                    60.7
FEMALE                10.0         17.0       18.0               18.2                    49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0            6.0/R       *-                9.9                    13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         40.0       42. 0              41.1                    34. 6
SECONDARY                           16.0         17.0         ..               20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.0       36.0               40. 9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 7         1.0        1. 3               1. 8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         21.0       24.0               25.8                   118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0. 1       0.5                2.4                    39.4
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0       16.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4. 0           6. 3       3. 8                ..                     4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31. 3        32. 6      32.0               29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0       74. 0              70.5                    51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         11.0       11. 0              11.6                    21. 9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0         40.2       39.2               37.9                    39.1
MALE                                  57.1         52.3       51. 3              51.3                    48.5
FEMALE                                27.9         27.1       26.2               23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0         1.1        1.1                 1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26. 7          26. 3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51. 7          48.9./.h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1            6. 7/h      .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           17.2/h       .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       88.0              107.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       76.0               86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       40.7               46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       47.9               51. 7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
ja   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958;  /R 1967;  /h 1964-65.
Most recent estimate  of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DtFINITIDiS gi S-CIAL ..DrCToRS
Ntra.:  Although the data urn drawP from  sources generally 2adged the most authoritative and reliable, it sould also be noted that they ma' not be inter-
nationalin co=parebl because  If the hook of standaedized definitions and concepts used ho differet  countries to coliecting teA  data.  The data se-, nne-
theless , oofu] to describe orders of magnitudo  hidicate trends, and charocterizo  ortiai  m-jor differetncs between countries
The roteresce groops are (1S obe none ccuotry grtp of the sub)ject cosntr  and 52) acoonoro  group nit  . s.e..hat higher average itoome than the  ounotry group
of tih  subject countrv (eucept for "Tapital Surplus Oil foporters'  group  vbere "Middle Income  ncort Afcoca aod Middle last" is chosen becauo  of stronger
socsn-rultocai affinities) .In the referene group data ohe averages are p                  -puhostnnweightbd -rithmetlc ceans for ea-h  -ndi-nt-r ond ehb-to only vhen at
leant half of the councries to a group baa data for that indicato.  Stnce the coverage of opuntriesr aeng thb  indicators depends on the avaIlability of
data and is sot - .ifo., c-utriS e ust be raeruised ft relating averages of non indicator to another.  Tese averages urn only osetlin tcojt-arlg  the val
of  -e ifd ictor at a ti- as    g thn  -custry and refererce gr-ops.
LAND AREA (,h .tounad  lsq kx)                                                            foonlatiot perfhtysiotn- Yopuiation diviaed by summer nt preotteing phy-
Totf .- Totu: surface area comprostog hood atteasnd island waters.                         siclas qualified from  a medical school ot aninersit  Sevel.
Agricultural -  stmi_ate of agricultural area used te=po.raily or pttaoo-tly            Population per iurs.ne Person- Population divided by number of fratniag
for crops, pastures,  arkct and kit.ben gardets or to hit fallna; i977 data,            mole sod femle graduate nurses, practical  unuset, and asistass mormee.
PoeClaSi)o per foerttal Bed - total  urban  and roesl - Popslitift (total.,
IMP PfR CAPITA (OSS) - itP per cyl ta  esticates at current oariet ptries, cal-              urban. sod rural) divided by their respective ea-tder of hospital beds
culated by a ame conversior method as 19orld Banh utlas (1977-79 basis   1960,            avail           bl ic ond privte general. and spetialised hospital aId ra-
1970, and  1979dats.                                                                      hbilitation centers.  Hospitals are csteblishments oema-neetly staffed
by at least none physician. lErabilebmpents providing principalip sestedtal
ENEtGY CONSUMPTION PER LAPITA - Antoal consunption of comercial energy (coal                cnre are nst included,    ural hospitals, phtaner, intlode  health sad mtdinel
and  lgoite, peeJoleon, natural gas and hydro-, ouclear and geothermal elc-              cenrers  ono  perma-ently staffed by a physirita  (bst by a medical  tsaismeet,
tricity o n   tlogrsns of coal equivalent pee capita; 1960  197D, und 1978                nurse, midotte, err.) which offer in-potient ac.oes-datian aed provide a
daa                                                                                        hlimited range of medioal facilities   Por statistieal purposes srban batpi-
tale incide hHWOs principal general and specialized hospitels, md rarnt
POPULATION AND VBTAi. STAlSTllCS                                                             hospitals local or rural hospitals  od medical end maternity ran-er.
Total Population, Mid-lear (nihiuonsh - An of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978              Admissione Per Hospital fed - Total namber of admissions to nr dianharges
dato                                                                                   ftre hospitals divided by the number of beds.
Urbha Popolation (Perceet of total) - Bttio of ueban to tots. population;
different definitions of -rba arets say affect comparability of data                HOUSING
among countriem; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                           Anser-e Sloe of fusaehold Spersons ret householdS - total. urban, and racal-
Population Pruin- tfons                                                                   A h..sehold consis-s of a geoup of individuals eno shnre living qnars
Population in year loll - Current popsl..tio  projections are based no 1980             aed theti min meals.  A boarder or lodger moy or may not be included in
cosal popalarion by age and -en and their mPrtality aed fertility rates               the household for statistical purposes.
Projection par_aeters for mortality rates  -oeprise of three levels astor-          Acetage number of persons per room- total urhan  and rural - Averagn asr-
og lift enpectanny at hirth  increasing enth nountry'st per oa.ta istomo              her of porsons per cone cc all urban, and rural pcotpied  onneetinsl
level, and female life expectancy  teahelloing at 77.5 years   The paro-              dwellings. 7especetYely   Dellingsexclud oon-prtYaoentsateCttoes and
setenr  for Tereility rate also have three levels assumieg decline to                 unoccupled parts
Sentility according to mno=to levnl and past favily planning perfornasnce           Accress en ElectricitY  (percenot of dnallingsj - total. arbas, and esrsl -
Eoch country in then ussigned  one  of shear mine coshuy toons of mortality           fonveotimeal dwellings ..  t cleosrininy  s lining qtarte easpertemtage
sed tentility toends for prjeotin purposes.0total,urban,dand tai  doe11 S
Stationary enonlttion - ln a stationary popolatior there is no growth since             oftalurn,ndualweigsepcivy
the birth rate is eqfl en  the death rate, and also the age stracture re-    iLC ATION
talus constant.  This is achieved only slter fertility rates decline to             Adjusted Enroll=eerntatlos
the replanemant level of unit net reptodaction rate,  when  Iafh grn-tnAioo           Pri=ary school - total, main and female-Gross total, male mod fasala
of onmen replaces itself exaccly.  The stationary population sine 0a6                   enrollment of all ages at the primary level as pe coentages of repsoetive
esotiated on  the basis of the projected oharacteriaticn of She populathoo              primary school-age populations; norally  enlodee children aged 6-il
in the yesr 1000, and the rate of decline of fertiiuty rateetorepiano-                  years hue adjoated top different lengths of prima-p edanation; for
Year  seatiooary   o         apulatuo  in rachod - the peat wheo stetiosory  population    sinog some poplin are below or abovn t nfig  etb-A        l ae.       n
none has beeoreanbed.                                                                 5ecoodary schnol - total, male aod female - C..p.meR auabove;seonadsry
Popoiation lenaite                                                                           educotion requires at least done years of approveS primary instruction;
Per m. ho. - vid-year population par square hllnmseer (lD0 hectares I oP                  provides general, tocational, or tencher training instranmeans Poe psipi}
Pet soq hokagriculeural lod - Copoetd as shone for agricultural land - t t .A                  dpf2 E17 yeare
-bot y                           ,o1attoval enrollment (perenit of antondary) - PVfoeaon l institations
Population hoe  Structure (peroent) - Thildren (0-14 paurs), oorking-gsg  (li-               ioclude technical, idndstriai, or other pregrums vthinh aprete indepem-
66 years), and retired (65 pears and over) on percent ages of sod-year popu-               dently or an depantemnes of soendary institvttinsa
ltine  160  1)11,anf117  d              ta.             y-aPani-tyoorhrtio-.g  Ipriary,ian  seodrn     otlsu  fri  annaedin
Popusetion irnowbthAte (pernenet)    totsl - Annual growrth roses of total mid-           Pprimtarye and     i -nodr rlennrls dPinided by numbers t f ershers in the
year popolssinos for 1950-60, 196D-7l, end 1970-PH                                         corresponding levels. 
Poyslation  rlenme  Rats fpercene) -urbao-uAnaa  gronth rates of urban popu-              Adult 1 tesacy rate (pencent) - Lietrateadales Cable to read sad moist)
lotions for 1950-601, 1960-70, aod 1970-7H.                                               asnaperocentge of total adult population aged 151 years and over.
Crude Birtb tate (pee thousandS  -  Annual live births per thousand of nid-yesr
populat.oo; 1960, 1970, and 197B data.                                              fONSl.PTtOi
Crude Death Rote (ne thousand) - Annual deaths per ebossand of sid-pear                  Passenger fees (per Thousand ronviationj - Passenger nars oampriae motor
population; 1966, 1970, and 1976 does.                                                   oars seating less than eight peroons;  xucludes moho lantees, hearans end
Geoss Rnepoduotion Rate -Average oumber of daughters awomanowill bean in                   military vehicles.
bee normal reproducolne peniod ofrashe  enpdingons presen  age-specdific fee           ado Receivers (per thousand norolatior) - All types of recnivers far nedtb
elihrts   sal   ieyeaqregsedn   n116,171  o   97.ra casts en P.il genral pb.lc p erlloun  of iault.Ins; calIdgs-ah-
Fn y. Plantina-Acncptors, 1nova1 (thousands) - Annual number of acceptors                  censed receivers  n countries  nd i  ya"t ohfn riiatin  viradio seti
oftbcreh-nooeroldevicesuunder auspices  of natiosnalianilyplanning program.             was inseffectdatadfotrcccen  pears moyonotebecomlparahle sincemePat
FunilcyDlons[a i-itss ( acoed  ofaC rPtd  bomn- - Prcajenge  of m-rrOod                    co .olsros a1i-                  apbed licensing.
wome. of child-bearing oge (11-00 years) 5whp use birt-control dscnes to             TV Receivors (pe ehouanod covulationS  - Tv reneivert for broadeasr to
all macrind wc=en insano oge gtoup                                                       general public per thousand population;excloden ooiiesnsed TV reneivera
6  yaA                               ChildD NUTRlTIDv  y-incountries and in years nIen regifsration of TP uses  as i  efget
loden of Pood Prdodction pen Canita (1P69-71h1iS  - lndex of p-er apita-annua          t    of "ilytigneral interest osopoper", definedi ase apen-ieditna  puh-
prndsctcon of all fred corvqodisins.  Peoduotion excludes need and fend aod             lcto    ene   rmrl   onnriggnrlsv.f  soeiee
us  on calendar year basis   Coesoditiesnaover primary goods (e g. sugantana            en hication ' evotedaiy"ifi  uprimee  at lea s gneralehIde
instead of sogar) vbich are edible and contaio nutrients (e.g. oefte ad               Cinbem  daily Atifaite apearr aitae  laergat     fonr tienmbee of;.............................
too are enc-udd).  Aggreg ate produ tion oP ea h c untry is bas e  on                 cine ta  nsld dtniangceb pean, Ined In  sdissiIeta inse to die-    otfma
Ynstonal average producer price 1et6bes; 1961-t5, 1970, and 1P7H data,                  and miobitsle vot
Per capita sucoly of oalories (pereent of reaultementas - hompoted from
energy equivalent of ens food sopplles available in country peero pleap           LABOR  oORCE
oer day.  Available supylies comprise domestic production. impoces les              Crllbrfre(huad1-loolal   ciepros  olda
exportu, and changes in stool.  fee supplies exclode snisal feed, needs,              armed f7-orce  andc (unemployd hu  no'eloding bousnavtocs, etudents, sto.
quantivies used in fond peocessiug, and losses in diseribution.  tequirn-             Definitions Ivnanlroos councrlna ore oot comparehlc; 196)1. 1970 sand
asens were estimated bp PAl tased or  physiologiral needs for sotmal anti-            13'8 dat
ity   d health considerif envir ental tepeature. body weigt, ae                                        -      la          e    pf  t                       t .
h.  annBdrh l-et, hb_6sof  population, andal-o-isg if perceot for waste at          Agriculeure (yercent) - Labor S oe in darmiog, fosentry,            i  a
bvuaebcid level; ,191-5   19)1.Andh 1927 dana.                              -           fa.sbpt-gtOs pecon  oft. tota       O    tl lao  fre  1960b. 197( and  al9 l data.)
Per capita svyplp of protein (grams rpe day) - Protein content of per 05pi50          Industry (percent) - labor foroe in aiming, construonion, mosafantaniag
vet sopplp of food per day.  Net supply of trod is detined at above.  On-             and elcerieiey, water and gas as perceninge of tonal labon tomce; 1960,
qtre=nrts for all coauertres established by dBDA progtde doe minimum                   19,0 and 197Y data.
allontiamo   of )1gras  f-eta  proenin pe d-aypa and ..f. gdm  uf   aotmal         COSUPrTIOiNto    at(eos             oa,moe  n   eae-Prliaisa
poise protein, of  Ahich 1O ges s thould be animal protein.  Thete st nd-              seiity rates are cmpated as total,  le, and  fema     l          for  as
.rds are looer tban those of 75 grams of tetal proteis ond 2i grass op                percentages of  ototl, male and female pop..atioo of allsages rtspo-tively
w 1aid  Prodtvein asP an  averIage for thed r     Pe-poed by PAD is the Third         1i9i, 1970, and 1975 data.   These are 170's partitipaion  rates reflecting
plrld eo  srvey;196-65  191dad 177-ata
Per carita protein supply from animal and pulsa~~~~- Protein supply of food de-  a ge-seu structurn of the population, and long time te=ndf   A fasa esti-
nived Iron animas and poises in grams pen day; 1961-63, 197)1 and 1977 data    Foooh te erendfro=   easlona  -ouratc         oultoenres1ad65adee
Child (ages 1-AS ttortalip Rate (pee thossand) - Annoal deaths per thousand fn                the total labor foen
age group i-A pears, to children to thin Age gcooup  fur nse_ developing coun-            t
tries data derived from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                      oINCvE DIBTRItUTION
UEALTH                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peoceneage of Private tocone (both in cash and bind'l - Reotived by richest
Life tnpnctaeev ot Birth (years) - Average svabar of years of life remaloing               of pooernb ihst2oecntldrso.                   ecn,  n   orst4   ecn
at bi dth; 1960, 1970 and 197i fats
Infant ttoeoaliev tate (oner tbnsaod) - Annual deates viflot ants under 05e year   POVEETY IAllET GEfOUPS
Of age per thousand live births.                                                        stae Abso lute     Poverty  inc ome lev e  (001ha  i   pe  nav2ies) - urban and tain L-
Mumber of people (total, urban, and roral) seth reasomablo access to saet                nutritionally adequate dint plus essential nnn-fnvmd reqoiremAsgte is set
nater supply (includes treated sortfee eaters yr untreated but  ncontiaeed               affr  d ble.
watenr Suchas that froo  peciete ed borebolne, springs, and sasimar.o ineles  ats      Ossmated      sePoverty sno.e level (0P 5par oari)- aa  ander                   -
percentaget of their respective popolatloss  In an urban aresa pobti                     Rural  Relative Povertv incm   Level IsE$ one-thief-oft sdIrag  prn capit a
Fountain or standpost lonated notm=ore then 2DD =eters fronaooa     maybea rltv    oervic=   evli   n-hido   vrSeprcpt
consdered as being niehin reasonable access of that  nouse   In rural  areas             level otlh adjatnent for lIgher c  to  1imm5  ein uban dare as
reasonaoile access mould imply that the hoouseoife or members of the household         toofPrlanotocAsuePvrybomlvl(etat-aha
do not have eo spoof a disproportionate part of thie day it fetching the               Esiand etoa  - t Pcne oePY poalaiont (urban and  sres 1) wbs ens "absolats poor'
fumily 5 eater needs.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1d.   Prtai',,pa,
Acness to locoeta lianosel (perucent of ooeoanion -eosal urban and
rural -lSumber of peoole (total, urban, and rural) serded by aucrees
disposal as pastentages of theiSr respec-tin  populstions   tacresa dis-                                               Poonosic and ictal fats Divisiom
posal may includa the collaectin  and disposal, oith or oithoue treatment                                        trosemia Analyses and Projentimss D-pate-ens
of bosom entrtsa aged caste-sJaner bp wster-borne syatems or the use of                                                               orb-ia
con privies and StadRar inseaclecIoos.



ANNLX I
Page 4 of5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978:  usi 180
b7                                                                                                       S/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7%  constant prices)
US$ Bln.        7.                1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP ot Mayrks Prices                  117.08      100.0                      3.7                3.6                 3.7               2.8                5.6
Gross Domestic ln-estrnot              28.28       24.2
Grass National Saving                  28.11       24.0
Current Acounot Balance  d/             0.50        0.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added fat factor cost)           Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.            1               Mil.         %             US$        1 of National. Average
Agricult-re                          24.5             46.6              130.0      72.1            188                64
Industry                            11.8              22.3              20.2       11.2           582               199
,Services                            16.3             31.1              30.2       16.7           542               186
lotsl/average                       52.6             100.0             180.4      100.0           292               100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                               */
Gen.ral Government                                             Central Governnent
Rs. Bln.            7 of GDP                                   Rs  Bln          % of GDP
1978/79     1978/79  1974/75-1978/79                           19787      1978179   1974/75.1978/79
Curront Receipts                    183.65       19.1          18.3                                107.71      11.2          10.6
Correct Enpenditcres               _77.26        18.4          16.7                               108.99       11.3          10.1
Correct Surpl-s/Deficit              6.41         0.7           1.6                               - 1.28       -0.1           0.5
Capitol Enpenditores  I/            78.41         8.1           7.2                                57.34        6.0           5,1
EIternal Assistance (net) _/         8.15         0.8           1.4                                 8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71      1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79   Septenber 1978   Seotember 1979
(Rs Billion nntntanding at end of period)
Money and Qoasi Money              121.4        198.4        220.3       254.7        308.9       370.4        445.6         398.5          473.7
Bank Credit to Gavern-ent (net)    52.6          87.3        95.3        101.1        110.2       134.7        153.9         139.5          161.7
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector   64.6          107.0        126.7       153.9        185.1       212.2        253.3         225.8          273.8
(Percentage or Index NBobers)                                             January 1979    January 1980
honey and Quasi M.oney ao 7
af GDP                           30.1         33.5        31.5         34.5         38.8        41.5         46.3
Wholesale Price Inden
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0        139.7       114.9        173.0        176.6       185.8        185.8        185.3           224.0
Annoal percentage changes in:
WhalosaLo Price Indeo                 7.7        20.2         25.2        - 1.1         2.1          5.2                       0.4           20.9
Bank Crodit to Gvovrm-ent (net)    10.8          12.3          9.2         6.1          9.0        22.2         14.3          16.9            15.9
Bank Credit to Consnernial Sector   19.4         22.6         18.4        21.5         20.3        14.6         19.4          15.6           21.3
a/  The per capita GNP estinate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used is the World Bank Atlas., 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average eschange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Rstinoten.
C/  Computed from trend line of GNP ot factor cast senies, including one obhervation before first year and one observ-tion
after last year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estiates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers bht-een Centre and Staten have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979180  h/        HERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
USS MIlr,       %
Exports of Goods                         5,753      6,315       6,976       7 800            Engineering Goods              671         11
Imports of Goods                        -5,928     -7,188      -8,488    -11 000            Tea                             420          7
Trade Balance                           -  175     -  873      -1,512      -3,200           Gems                            499          8
NFS (net)                                  379         692         882      1 ,050           Clothing                       378          6
Resource Balance                           204       - 181      - 630      -2,150           Lather  nd Lether                1 
Jute Manufactures              251          4
Interest Payments (net)  i/               -182      -  89          130        400           Iron Ore                        270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -           -           -          -             Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfer.   j/                         695       1,077       1,000      i,m              Sugar                          224          4
-750           Others                       2,649         45
Balance on Current Account                 717         807         500       -750
Total                        5_929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                        1,955       1,628       1,695       1,870           EXTERNkL DEBT  MARCH 31. 1979
Amortization                          -560        -645        -702    -   687                                                 US$ billion
Trans-ction. with III                     -337        -330        -158        -              Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.5
All Other Items                           -200         616         199       -183            Undisbursed                                 5.2
Outstanding, includtng                     20 7
Increase in 9eserves (-)                -1,575     -2,076      -1,534    -   250                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                3,747       5,823       7,357      7,607                                             h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/              3,276       5,668       7,357      7,607            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79         15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                   IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1979
Imports                                  1,581       1,811       2,043      4,050                                             -   US$  illion
of which: Petroleum                  1,581       1,811       2,043       4,050                                             ]BRD            IDA
Exports                                     37          32          24        -             Outstanding and Disbursed         689             4,286
cf which: Petroleum                     21          18         n.a.        -             Undisbursed                      E-14             2,621
Outstanding, including         1,:03             6,907
Undiebursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mId-December 1971           : U0S1.00 - Re 7.5
Re 1.00 - USS0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972    : US$1.00 - as 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US0.137376
After end-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978                 US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
Re 1.00 - US50.122
End-December 1979                           USS1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US50.126
h/ Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMf, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of nlF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                     (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower         Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                           1,313.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                     --         12.0       4.47
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                   --          8.0       1.12
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I         --         55.0       1.87
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& Marketing               --         13.0       6.43
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0           --        14.83
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy               --          30.0     19.56
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD           --         83.0      31.32
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy               --         27.7      14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy          --         16.4       6.17
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas           --         35.0       2.29
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer             109.0       --         1.24
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI               94.8       --         1.32
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation                --         45.0       4.81
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development               --         34.0       9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD              --         24.0       2.05
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I         --         57.0        .04
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                    --         40.0      17.37
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry           --        105.0      35.16
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV         --        150.0      60.16



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN    1976      India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --       4.0      1.71
610-IN    1976      India   Integrated Cotton
Development             --      18.0    11.61
1251-IN    1976      India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation             145.0            90.34
1260-IN    1976      India   IDBI II                     40.0    --      16.13
1273-IN    1976      India   National Seeds I            25.0    --      23.14
1313-IN    1976      India   Telecommunications VI    80.0    --         21.98
1335-IN    1976      India   Bombay Urban Transport   25.0    --          8.25
680-IN    1977      India   Kerala Agric.
Development             --       30.0   25.15
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development             --       20.0   12.00
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --      150.0   67.31
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development             --       24.0    9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --       12.0   12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheries          14.0    --       11.18
712-IN    1977      India   Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --       10.0    6.94
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --       23.0   14.68
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development             --        8.0    6.87
736-IN    1977      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation              --       70.0   39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --       13.0    9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa Irrigation          --       58.0   39.11
1475-IN    1977      ICICI   Industry DFC XII           80.0    --       15.27
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --      L07.0   85.53
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II          --       87.0   37.29
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --        8.0    7.33



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                  25.0   --           21.17
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay
Thermal Power          105.0   --           79.66
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation       --    117.6         88.01
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power        --    200.0        161.27
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture            --      14.0        13.79
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation         --      85.0        73.23
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --      17.5        16.08
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II          --      16.0        15.58
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0   --             56.35
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy             --    150.0        135.44
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II               --    196.0        189.33
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation         --    111.0         59.81
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --    190.0        154.33
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage              --      38.0        27.12
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural
Research                --      27.0        26.21
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural
Extension               --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                       --      30.0        19.90
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   50.0   --           50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   --    200.0        176.70
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation          --    129.0        112.29
899-IN    1979      Indla  Maharashtra Water
Supply                  --      48.0        47.21
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification
Corp. II                --    175.0        151.91
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --      23.0        21.32



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower      Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN    1979      India   ARDC III                  --     250.0      145.98
963-IN    1979      India   Inland Fisheries          --      20).0      20.00
954-IN    1979      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II          --     210.0      192.52
961-IN    1979      India   Gujarat Community
Forestry               --       37-0      34.03
981-IN    1980      India   Population II             --      46.0       45.97
1003-IN    1980      India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition    --        32.0       32.00
1004-IN    1980      India   U.P. Tubewells            --      18.0       17.52
1011-IN    1980      India   Gujarat Irrigation II   --       175.0      175.00
1027-IN    1980      India   Singrauli Thermal II    --       300.0      289.17
1012-IN    1980      India   Cashewnut                 --      22.0       21.95
1028-IN    1980      India   Kerala Agricultural
Extension              --       10.0      10.00
1033-IN    1980      India   Calcutta Urban
Transport              --       56.0      56.00
1034-IN    1980      India   Karnataka Sericulture   --        54.0       54.00
1046-IN    1980      India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage           --       80.0      79.88
1843-IN    1980      ICICI   Industry DFC XIII        100.0    --         94.87
1887-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  25.0    --         25.00
1053-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  --      225.0     225.00
1897-IN    1980      India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development       30.0    --         30.00
1072-IN    1980      India   Bihar Rural Roads         --      35.0       35.0
1078-IN*   1980      India   Mahanadi Barrages         --      83.0       83.00
1925-IN*   1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development           400.0    --        400.0
1082-IN*   1981      India   Madras Urban Dev. II    --        42.0       42.0
Total                                            2,833.0 8,671.6
of which has been repaid                      1,060.9    71.7
Total now outstanding                           1,772.0 8,599.9
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid           128.1           5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                1,766.3 8,599.9
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                     560.7 3,546.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    Company                        Loan     Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5       -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9       -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4       -         1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2       -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6       0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1      1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6       -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5       1.1       8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                           25.9       1.7      27.6
Repaid                        20.8         -      20.8
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3      7.5
Now Held                      46.2        8.5     54.7
Undisbursed                   44.5        1.1      45.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to
US$538 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year Lihrough January 31, 1981 totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$4,107 million as of January 31, 1981, reflects the lead
time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing
projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-
scale industries, which often employ high technology and are export-
oriented. Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly
ahead of schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and
with the understanding that. they do not purport to present a bal-
anced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not
expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employ-
ment of consultants and the longer time required for the preparation of
technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself. The
project is currently under review by the Government of India and some
changes to its scope may be made in April 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in
the last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
The principal executing agency, I&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress
has been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The
project's research activities, however, are behind the original schedule
due to poor organization.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a
reduced growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Insti-
tutional improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and
the financial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains
sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31. 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered clelays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the GovernIment.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by
about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Projec:; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7. 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39
markets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and
trade had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets
have been included in the project at the request of the State government,
and these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universi-
ties in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum
of their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure
to enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development.
Considerable progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but
achieving educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by
traditional attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership
falters. Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The
Project Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and
are supporting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21. 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
The water treatment works were successfully completed on schedule at the
end of 1979. Completion of construction of the project sewerage works is
scheduled for mid-1980. Financial performance of the project entity is
satisfactory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing
Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection
with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of Credit 1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed



ANNEX II
Page iO of 20
construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and prepara-
tion of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the phy-
sical execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag
so that disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at
the time of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements
have been made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consul-
tants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although
more extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this
problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project: US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30. 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition prob-
lems and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and
service areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of
the final sections of these areas. Increased attention should be turned
to the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that
anticipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading
components and thus replicability is actually achieved. Technical assis-
tance is being sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy coopera-
tive societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has
been excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer
pressure to speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost
all of the DCS is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has
been the major constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under
the National Dairy Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost
of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy
Corporation and a further eight subprojects are in various stages of
preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well
underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the
start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Puniab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possi-
ble, to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Canal lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shap-
ing are prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions
have been made to increase agricultural production and marketing by
reforming and upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing
processing and storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of
these projects is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar
Vaigai Project (Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to sub-
stantial increases of both quantities and unit cost over the original
engineers' estimates. Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this
project so that it can still achieve its original objectives. Difficul-
ties had also arisen earlier in connection with the Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of Loan 1251, where water losses proved to be higher than antici-
pated. Additional assurances have been obtained from the State Government
concerned, regarding the enforcement of cropping patterns and the sequence
and timing of main canal construction and lining, which should ensure that
this project will also achieve its objectives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for
an extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive
research capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the
reformed extension system is in full operation, field results have been
very good, both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of
increased crop yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in
particular, significant gains have been made under the projects. In West
Bengal, where a change in government brought a review of the organiza-
tional principles underlying the new extension system and an accompanying
hiatus in project implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the
State Government's commitment to the project, revised implementation plans
have been prepared, and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff
shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered
project implementation, although progress in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricul-
tural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system and field work is off to a good start. In
Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Com-
mitment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily,
although corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original
estimates. Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to
expedite further progress under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dry-
land farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone
areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting
operations, which were one season behind original schedule, have been
rephased to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh, although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Con-
sultants had been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in
strengthening their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be
recruited in Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are
now ahead of the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date:. December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-
based industry in Bastar district.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0  tillion credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceecding well.
The projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands,
primarily along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on
degraded forest reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to
renewed interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to
progress well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new pro-
cessing units are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant
protection activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organiza-
tional difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in
the second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various
organizations (National and State) in the production and processing of
seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses
in September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a
result, the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic
management civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now
proceeding satisfactorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is
proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on the important
early procurement steps.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the
harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encoun-
tered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had
been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kak-
inada and Nizampatnam were under way and the pace of implementation had
increased at all three sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in
May 1980. The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the
establishment of State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and
State project monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. Site
selection and hatchery design work is under way.



ANNEX i I
Page 18 of 20
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. Nc. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feed-
ing power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construc-
tion of the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such sta-
tion, at Korba, together with related facilities and associated transmis-
sion. Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power
stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 50CI MW extension
of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale ther-
mal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slip-
page has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ranmagundam pro-
ject.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700
rural electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB),
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Proiect; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18. 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging pro-
gress in all components.



ANNEX III
INDIA
KARNATAKA TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The State of Karnataka, in collaboration with GOI's
Ministry of Agriculture Project Preparation and
Monitoring Cell.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
July 1979; February 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
August 8, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 17, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 17, 1981
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOK to ensure that the tank schemes follow agreed
criteria (paragraph 41);
(b) GOK to continue to maintain a dam review panel with
terms of reference mutually acceptable to IDA and
GOK (paragraph 42);
(c)  GOK to complete a farmers' participation study by
March 31, 1983 (paragraph 44); and
(d) GOK to review its water charges for new tank schemes
by March 31, 1984 (paragraph 56).



IBRD  15341
This m*p hom bte pntpantd by thit!                                                                                   t*.
Wor/d ft  staff                                                                                                                   '0chsiny |.,  CHINA
the conv.nnce of the reademr of                                                                              O       /         .J
th- oport to hich it. eneched.
The deno.,inetitrs used and the
nO, .hn en- th p                                                                                               PAKISTAN 
do not "tply on the Pert of the                                                                                PAKISTAt TA                                _
Wo,ld 8eed enda teffiheste,. any
judgrmnt on the legal stetun of                                                                                            III Jo
any terrtoly or any endorssemnt                                               I .        /                                                                  (
or ccepteoce of such boundetrs.r
t INDIANDA
KARNATAKAK TANK ,RIATO  PROJECT
MA//ARASElTRA ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~                    NOTEATR TRNSTINA ION                      PECNTG OF NE AREA-
S < Tt,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORHATR 0E ZONESS    22P  SOWN 19717I
MA HA ADRA SH RADS
XW  3          ,                        _                       RoichurO f~~pu
L                             ~~~~INDIA
<;  f,/    S   >  h   KARNATAKA TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
GOA t-<  H  oD                                /                -i< 9 tAAGRO-CLIMATIC ZONES
\   /   >    -   /       \     :     :                 >            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~     ~     ~~AG RO-CLIMATIC ZONES   r N   NERTCIRRIGATED AREA AS
Karwar1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~P 1- OF NET AREAONOAIE
fNORTHEASTERN TRANSITIYNAL ZONE       0 O TR HE)A          A
+\  J  - - .  <   -       /                        <       y           n~~~~~~~~Be41  NORTH4EAETERN DAY ZONE  -" 'M  NET AREA SOWN IN HECTARES
EKorwol^    E   g   I<l! Jn~~~~~~~~~~~~l NORTHE RN DRY ZONEEONDRlS
A 7SOUTHERN DRY ZONE                         STATE HEADQUARTERS
YVU SOUTHERN TRANSITIONAL ZONE                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
(01) NORTHERN TRANSITIONAL ZONE           -   STATE BOUNDARIES
IX HILLY ZONE                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
V COASTALZONE                       RIVERS
MO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oO
;   Mangalore                                                                          'Ko l -tX i t    
~~~~~~~~~~rAMII NADUt
ARA5/AN1 AN                                                                                         NAD
0        40        HO       120
KILOMETERS
NOVEMBER 1980



