DOCUMTSj CREDIT NUMBER 1116 IN
Project Agreement
(Ka-nataka Tank Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Dated                              , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1116 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Xlack Ldb             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF KARNATAKA, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Karnataka).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-three million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 43,500,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Karnataka agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Karnataka, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the term "Employment Affirmation Scheme" means a scheme estab-
lished by Karnataka to assure employment opportunities for labor
in rural areas.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Karnataka shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.. (a) Karnataka undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Karnataka to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Karnataka
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Karnataka shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Karnataka shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Association and Karnataka, Karnataka shall prepare and furnishd to


﻿-3-
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Associa-
tion and Karnataka of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 2.07. (a) Karnataka shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Karnataka shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Karnataka of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Karnataka undertakes that (a) the TIPs be
planned, designed, approved, implemented and operated according
to criteria agreed between the Association and Karnataka; and
(b) individual TIPs be processed in accordance with the procedures
agreed between the Association and Karnataka.
Section 3.02. Karnataka shall not later than by March 31,
1983, complete, according to terms of reference agreed between the
Association and Karnataka, a study with the purpose: (a) to
investigate whether the formation of water users' organizations
would contribute to an increase of the farmers' participation in
the operation of the TIPs; (b) to recommend means for establishing
viable and effective participation of beneficiaries in operation
and maintenance of the TIPs; and (c) to recommend a system of
water charges in accordance with objectives agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.03. With the objective of ensuring recovery of
annual operational and maintenance costs and, to the extent
possible, cost of infrastructure investments, having consideration


﻿to incentives for, and payment capacity of, farmers, Karnataka
shall (a) considering the recommendations of the study specified
in Section 3.02 above, by March 31, 1984, review the method of
charging for irrigation water supply as well as the level of water
and water related charges in tank irrigation projects in Karna-
taka, and (b) as soon as feasible thereafter, introduce and
enforce an appropriate system and level of such charges after
paying due consideration to the Assocation's comments, if any, on
the above mentioned review and the study.
Section 3.04. Karnataka shall maintain the following organi-
zational arrangements in its Department of Irrigation during the
execution of the Project:
(a) two Project Formulation Cells and two Quality Control
Divisions in the Minor Irrigation Wing with adequate staff;
(b) the Minor Irrigation Committee for appraisal and super-
vision of TIPs; and
(c) the Special Appraisal and Supervision Circle, consisting
of two Appraisal Divisions, a Technical Monitoring and Evaluation
Division and an Operational Monitoring and Evaluation Division,
with adequate staff.
Section 3.05. Karnataka shall promptly furnish to the
Association a Project Summary for each TIP approved by the Minor
Irrigation Committee as well as the minutes of each meeting of
said Committee.
Section .3.06. Karnataka shall each year by March 31 furnish
to the Association an annual Implementation Program and an annual
Performance Summary of the TIPs, prepared in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.07. Karnataka shall cause establishment of separate
Tank Irrigation Committees for at least three selected TIPs before
their construction, in accordance with terms of reference and with
a composition to be agreed with the Association.
Section 3.08. (a) Karnataka shall: (i) maintain its panel of
experts with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association and Karnataka to review the plans
and designs of all dams, including their related structures
constructed under the Project, whose proposed height of the


﻿-5-
embankment above streambed exceeds 10 m, or whose proposed gross
storage behind embankment exceeds 2.5Mm3 at full reservoir
level, or whose proposed location of the embankment is such that
significant destruction could occur in case of failure; and (ii)
cause said panel to conduct periodic reviews during the design and
construction to examine whether any new grounds for making changes
in the design of the such dams have become apparent.
(b) Without limiting the generality of Section 3.01 above,
Karnataka shall under arrangements satisfactory to the Association
and Karnataka cause the dams mentioned in Section 3.08 (a) above
to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering
practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies
in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and ade-
quacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which
may endanger their safety.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Karnataka shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound account-
ing principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,
expenditures and operations related to the Project; (ii) furnish
to the Association copies of their accounts and financial state-
ments related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified as to
their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor accept-
able to the Association, as soon as available but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of such year.
Section 4.02. Karnataka shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association immediately following its finali-
zation, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; (iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the


﻿- 6 -
Association such other information concerning said accounts and
records, financial statements and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Karnataka thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Karnataka of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Karnataka:
Development Commissioner
Government of Karnataka
Vidhana Soudha
Bangalore 560001, India
Cable address:
Development Commissioner
Bangalore
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Karnataka may be taken or executed by
a Secretary to the Government of Karnataka or such other person or
persons as Karnataka shall designate in writing, and Karnataka
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of


﻿- 8 -
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
*&2A Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Byie                                          v
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 below contracts for
civil works and equipment shall be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works:
(a) works for which safety or quality considerations so
require may be carried out by force account pro-
vided, however, that the aggregate of such works
shall not exceed 20% of all civil works; and
(b) works suitable to be carried out under the Employ-
ment Affirmation Scheme may be executed under such
scheme provided that the aggregate of such works
shall not exceed 10% of all civil works of the
Project.
B.   1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $200,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, Karnataka shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures,
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before they
are issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated,
Karnata'a shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the


﻿- 10 -
Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with this
Schedule, promptly inform Karnataka and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the
preceding paragraph, Karnataka shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform Karnataka and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 ±
FOR SECRETARY


