FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
!NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 112-IND
APPRAISAL
A THIRD  EDUCATJ-ON PROJECT
INDONES IA
May 4, 1973
Educ3tion Division, Asia Projects
This report was pred for offical use only by the Bsnk Groi.p. :t nay -not be published, quuted
or cited without Han-k Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept respo.nsibiiiy fo: the
accuracy or compieteaess of the report.           -



CURRENCY EQUJIVALENTS
US$1.00              =  Rp. 414
1 Rupiah             =  US$0.0024
I million Rupiah    = US$2,415
'ZASUF2S
1 m2                 a  1.09 yd
1 m                      1 10.76 sq. yd 
1 kmn                   0.38 sq. mi.
I hectare               2.47 acres
1 km2                   100 hectares
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................... ....................
I.   INTRODUCTION ...................1
II.   BACKGROUND ...............1............... 1
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR .................................            2
IV.   THE PROJECT .........................................            6
General   ........................................         6
Curriculum Development, Manuscript Preparation
and  Testing   ..................................        7
Book Production ......        ...........................  7
Primary Teacher Trainirng ..................    I ....     9
Technical Assistance ...........................          12
Project   Costs   ..................................      12
V.   IMPLEMENTATION ......................................           15
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................           17
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOI1ENDATION ...............           19
APPENDICES   I:      The Education System
II:     Supplementary Allowances
III:     Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.   Education:  Structure, Enrollments and Teachers, 1970
2.   Routine and Development Budgets and Allocations for
Education and Training, 1969/73
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited Indonesia
in May 1972. The mission was composed of Messrs. A. Tsantis (economist),
S. Futagami (mass media specialist), J. Harrison (economist) (IDA), and
Mr. Chesswas (general educator) (UNESCO). A subsequent mission composed
of Messrs. S. Burt (educator), R. Fennell (educator), and Z. Kalim (program
officer) visited Jakarta in January 1973.



-2-
ANNEXES (contd)
3.   Ministry of Education Routine Budget, 1969/73
4.   Ministry of Education Development Budget, 1969/73
5.   Comparative Indicators
6.   Textbook Production Schedule
7.   Book Delivery and Teacher Training Schedule
8.   Requirements for Mobile Teams
9.   Training Courses for Administrative and Teaching Personnel
10.   Project Costs by Year and Type of Expenditure
11.   Contingency Allowances
12.   Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Administration of Education and Training
In Indonesia                                                7103 (R)
2.   Structure of the Education System:  Present and Proposed  6079 (R)
3.   Project Implementation                                         7687
4.   Project Administration                                         7090 (R)
5.   Educational Pyramid, 1970                                      7091
ILAP



INDONESIA
BASIC DATA-
1971 (Est.)
Population                                                       119 million
Rural Population                                                 98 million
Urban Population                                                  21 million
Primary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of 7-13 Age Group2/                                 77%
Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of 14-19 Age Group2/                                 15%
Post-Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of 20-24 Age Group2/                                 2%
Central Government Expenditures on Education and Training (1972/73 est.)
a.   As a percentage of recurrent expenditures              19%
b.   As a percentage of capital expenditures                 5%
c.   As a percentage of total expenditures                  15%
1/   Comparative education data in Annex 5.
2/   Latest enrollment data are for 1970 and include over-age students.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY KAD CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a third education project in Indonesia for
which an IDA Credit of US$13.5 million equivalent is proposed. The project,
consisting of items to be financed by the Government of Indonesia, the Govern-
ment of Canada, and the Association, would improve primary education through
assistance to three priority areas: the provision of textbooks, improvement
in teachers' educational background and classroom techniques and strengthening
the primary school inspectorate. It would also assist the coordination of
curriculum development, the writing of texts andbhook-production. The Govern-
ment of Canada and the Association would finance sep'arate project components.
ii.       For most Indonesians, primary school is the only available formal
education. It is, however, of low quality. Classroom instruction consists
largely of learning by rote which is almost inevitable due to the serious
lack of textbooks. It is common to find only eight books in a class,
including the teacher's copy. Primary school inspectors, themselves poorly
trained, rarely have the ability to improve teachers' methods. They lack
transport and visit schools very infrequently.
iii.      By May 1972 the government, with aid from UTNICEF and the Canadian
Government, had produced and distributed a total of 27 million books and
will produce an additional 36 million textbooks by the end of 1974. The
proposed project would provide for the production of a further 13° million
books and so enable every primary student to have books in each of the four
basic subjects, Bahasa Indonesia, mathematics, social studies and science
by 1980. The Canadian Government is to provide all the paper required under
an interest free loan.
iv.       The textbooks produced should be consistent with teachers' academic
backgrounds and relevant to the students' environment. The project would
therefore assist the government to coordinate various existing curriculum
development activities, including the writing and testing of appropriate
texts, and establish an effective link between these activities and textbook
production.
v.        Under the project, all 350,000 secular primary school teaclhers
would receive in-service training over a six-year period in modern teaching
methods, including the use of textbooks. For the ninety percent of the
teachers located in the accessible areas of the country, this would be
accomplished by means of: (a) regular training sessions in each of the
2,161 school districts conducted by 105 mobile teams of specially trained
tutors; and (b) two-weekly visits by primary teachers to centrally located
schools for instruction in the use of the new textbooks and the preparation
of related lesson plans. To assist these programs, the project would provide



- ii -
funds for the purchase and operation of vehicles needed for the mobile teams
and for school district inspectors and the equipment, training courses and
supplementary allowances of participating trainers.
vi.       The proposed project would also make provision for:  (a) the
training of primary school teachers in the nine more remote provinces; (b) the
training of teacher trainers in public institutions not participating in
the main scheme; (c) specialist services for a total of 16 man-years to assist
in implementing the project; and (d) fellowships for eight man-years.
vii.      This is the first occasion on which the Association would finance
textbook production, provide substantial direct assistance to a national primary
education system and support a comprehensive effort to upgrade teachers over
an extended period. The scheme for textbook production has been developed
from Indonesian experience over the last three years Iwith the addition of
more comprehensive means for testing the manuscripts of new books. Although
no physical institutions will be constructed, the project would strengthen
the administrative framework at provincial and district level for the intro-
duction of continuing improvements in primary education.
viii.     A project implementation unit would be established in the
Mfinistry of Education to provide comprehensive planning and supervision of
the project. Progress would be reviewed regularly to ensure that the objec-
tives of the project are being met efficiently. Contracts for the supply
of equipment would be awarded under procedures consistent with the Association's
guidelines on international competitive bidding. Since typesetting for all
books produced under the project will cost only about $35,000 and is unlikely
to attract foreign firms, all typesetting contracts would be awarded on the
basis of national competitive bidding. Contracts for printing and distributing
textbooks would also be awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding
to ensure an efficient textbook delivery system. Preferred domestic manufac-
turers of equipment would be accorded a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of c.i.f.
prices, whichever is lower.
ix.       The Association has financed two education projects in Indonesia.
The first credit of US$4.6 million equivalent, approved in October 1970,
is assisting improvements in the quality of secondary technical education.
The second credit of US$6.3 million, approved in February 1972, provides
assistance for reorganizing agricultural training institutions. Implementation
of both projects is proceeding satisfactorily.
x.        The proposed project is estimated to cost USS39.0 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$18 million or about 46% of the total
project cost. The Canadian Government would provide an interest free loan of
up to Can $13.0 million to neet the estimated c.i..f. costs of paper.  The
project is suitable for an TDA credit of lS'13.5 million to Indonesia.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In March, 1972, preparatory work commenced on a project intended
to effect major quality improvements in primary education during the second
Development Plan period (1974-1979) through the production of textbooks
for all six grades, upgrading the primary teaching force and the provision of
maeans for better supervision by the school inspectorate. The proposed project
would thus complete a primary school textbook production program comnenced
by the government in 1969 with aid from UNICEF and the Canadian Government.
1.02      This report is based upon a preparation/appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. A.C. Tsantis (economist), J. Harrison (economist), and
S. Futagami (mass media specialist) of IDA and Mr. Chesswas (educator) of
Unesco, in May, 1972, and a subsequent mission by Messrs. S. Burt (educator),
R. Fennell (educator), and Z. Kalim (program officer) in January 1973. Follow-
ing the latter mission, the Government of Canada indicated that it was prepared
to continue its financing of primary school book production by providing the
paper needed for the 138 million books to be produced under the present project.
1.03      The proposed project would be the third by which IDA would help to
meet high priority education needs without conflicting with the sectoral
development policy that is expected to emerge from the National Assessment of
Education now nearing completion. The first Credit (No. 219-IND), signed
in November 1970, provides US$4.6 million to improve the quality of secondary
technical education. The second Credit (No. 288-IND), signed in March 1972,
provides US$6.3 million for agricultural senior secondary schools and training
centers for the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture. Following some delay
in the appointment of consultant architects for the first project, implementa-
tion of both projects is proceeding satisfactorily.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Republic of Indonesia, a land of cultural, linguistic, ethnic
and geographical diversity, sprawls over a vast archipelago of five large
and some 3,000 small islands. Approximately 119 million people are spread
unevenly over 1.9 million square kilometers land area, with population
densities ranging from 2.4 in West Irian to over 550 per square kilometer
in Java. Its population, the fifth largest in the world, is growing at
about 2.6% per year. Indonesia's geographical features divide the nation
by water and mountains, reinforcing the linguistic and ethnic differences
among the people. The introduction of Bahasa Indonesia as the national
language in the 1950's was a major step toward the effective unification
of the country.



-2-
2.02       Following the economic and political dislocations of the mid-1960's,
Indonesia has recently experienced a period of considerable economic growth
with relativelv scable prices and there are good prospects for sustained
growth in the coming years.  In spite of significant progress, however, GNP
per capita remains well below $100 and jobs in the modern sector are scarce.
Reliable data on the labor force are not available but the 1971 sample censts
indicated a labor force of about 40 million.  About 85% are believed to be
employevj in rural areas,  The educational background of the labor force is
low:  in 1965, 176% had completed only primary education, 4.2% secondary, and
only 0.2, had graduated from higher level institutions.  Over 40% of the
populacion is illiterate.  Most of those Who had not completed primary
schcol       iire in  an.:ual and fars--related occupatiens earning very small incomes.
2.03      The administrative system  is still recovering from years of
m.aladministration prior to 1966.  There has been anjincreasing devolution
of responsibility to the 26 provinces and other local government bodies
in order to deveio-ip and irmolenuent policies responsive to the nation's
regional di-versity,  There is an excessive number of civil servants in some
najor deDarrments but a shortage of key personnel in nearly all of them.
Salaries have been extremely low and many people have more than one Job
with inevitable effects on efficiency.  Since the late 60's, however, levels
of compensation have improved (government salaries more than doubled in the
last two ye.ars), efficiency in some areas of government has risen and the
first steps toward rationalizing governmient employment and staff policies
have been taken.  In 1963 a freeze on new appointments was imposed and new
personnel lre  hired aiclvs,z for developmeTit projects and orn a selective basis.
The teaching force, as part of the civil service, was also frozen at 1968
levels although 10,000 teaching posts have been authorized during 1971-72
to m.eet some of the needs arising fromn increased student enrollments.
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
3.01      ProbleEns and Needs.  As in many other developing countries which
have exoerierced a rapid increase in enrollments, the Indonesian education
system has expanded without reference to a long-term plan and, in some respects,
without regard to the real needs of the country.  The poor quality of primary
schooling, characterized by untrained teachers imparting routine skills by
rote learning, w-ithout benefit of teaching materials, handicaps education
at upper levels.  Secondary education is almost entirely academic with outdated
currlcula wi,ch do not prepare graduates wilh useful skills related to life
and work in Indonesia. Vocational education, understaffed and ill-equipped,
has been used as a poor substitute for general education.  Quality varies
greatly between urban and rural schools.  Dropout and repeater rates are high.
3.02       Solutions to these problems need to take into account the constraints
imposed by the size and dispersion of the system and the lack of finances.
There are som.e 14 million primary students (about 65% of the 7-13 age group)
in roughly 64,000 private and public secular primary schools taught by about
350,000 teachers (Anex 1).  The 2,250 secondary schools enroll two million



-3-
students (15%/" of the age group age 14-19) witlh 64,000 teaclhers.  These schools,
students and teachers are scattered through 3,000 islands covering an area
of nearly two million square miles. The control of schools is .aared between
two major government Ministries (Chart 1), 26 provincial authorities, and 2,560
school districts. In addition, there are 2.5 million primary students (12%
of the relevant age group) and 240,000 secondary students in religious
schools (madrassahs) which have until recently been under the sole supervision
of the Ministry of Religion.
3.03      Shortage of finance is a constraint on educational reform.  In
1970/71 the central government spent Rp 57.5 billion (US$138 imillion), or
13% of the total outlay, on education and training, amounting to just over
US$1.00 per capita or less than US$7.00 per student (Annexes 2, 3 and 4):
the total of all discernible expenditure on education and training by central
government, provinces, local authorities and parents! on school fees amounted
to only 2.6% of GDP. These figures are low by international standards (Annex
5) and indicate that substantially greater expenditure needs to be made if
the relevance and quality of formal education is to be improved appreciably.
Central government education and training increased in 1972/73 but the amount
per student probably did not increase si.nificantly because of a parallel
rise in enrollments.
3.04      The problems in the education system are complex but lack of infor-
mation made it impossible for the government to develop a systematic plan
for dealing with thein, Consequently, in 1969 the government, assisted by the
Ford Foundation and Unesco, undertook a comprehensive National Assessment of
Education with the intention of basing future reforms on its outcome. The
educational development plan (1974-1979) is expected to reflect some of the
results of this Assessment.
3.05      Pending completion of the Assessment, the approach of the Bank
Group has been to assist in alleviating identifiable manpower shortages and
in improving educational quality whilst ensuring that these investments do not
limit the options for subsequent reforms. Accordingly, an IDA credit for
US$4.6 million was made in 1970 for five technical training centers and another
in 1972 for US$6.3 million to iTrprove middle-level agricultural training.
3.06      The Ministry of Education has proposed a fundamental reform of the
structure of education independent of the Assessment. The reform would change
the 6-3-3 pattern of primary, lower and upper secondary education to 8-4 of
primary and secondary schooling (Chart 2). The possible change in the length
of the primary cycle will not affect the usefulness of the textbooks to be
produced under the project since they remain essential to the first six years
of schooling w,hatever the structure of education. A key feature of the
reform would le to consolidate the rnany Venoral and vocational schools into
comprehensive "development secondary schools" with increased practical
content.  The Yinistry proposes a two-year period for planning and tcsting
the reforms in detail and a phased ten-year program of implementation durinr
')74- 1924.  A t VTPF/L1ESCO project is assistinc the governmo,:t to f.7r-mu1late



the curricula, construction, tenrhor traiT;n  anr?" cst r-1r1irements 0o the
reform.
3.07      The Priority of Primary Education.  The tentative fi-ndines of the
Assessment indicate that improved primary education is necessary for this
level to nlay its proper role in national develoTpment, to ensure the success
of possible reforms at secondarv level. and to avoid waste.  Most Tndonesians
will receive onlv primarv education in their lifetime.  About 50% of the.
eligible children enter primary school. at some sta,ge hut narents must hear
the cost of fees, hooks, transoort, lunches and uriforms, amountinR to 55/
of the total recurrent cost per student. 1/ The inabilitv of narents to
sustain these navrents has contribtuted to hieh dronout rates.  On average,
only half the initial entrants reach orade 4 and on1v 397 comol.ete primarv
school.
3.n9      The qualitv of Drirary education is innortant for another reason:
poor habits and faultv skills established in Drimarv school are liable to
carry over to other levels of education and emplovment.  ronsequentlv, it
would be extremelv difficul]t to establish a modern svstem of comprehensive
secondary schools or achieve any signiFicant qualitv imnrovements at that level
on an archaic base of nrimarY education.
3.09      The dnal, function of nrimarv eduration is to select-ahle students
and prepare them for further education and to Prenare the majoritv for direct
entrv into the world of work.  The Assessment leaves no doubt that primarv
education has performed these functions inadeouatelv.
3.10      The effectiveness of the nrimarv school in achievine the above
objectives denends both unon the content and the methods byv whfich tegching
and learning occur.  The curriculum of primarv schools was revised in 19)8
along modern lines hut has not bv itself brought about much improvement in
the quality of classroom work.  Teachifng nractice continues to be traditional,
i.e., stressing routine skills and rote memorY.
3.11       Several factors contribute to these traditional teaching Datterns.
About 207 of the primary schools are in serious disrenair and are so badlv
overcrowded as to inhibit the use of modern teacfng..  Teach-inc eauinment is
almost totally lacking.  The most crucial w,eakness is a shortage of textbooks.
Teachers and students alike must buv their oTm textbook's.  The Assessment
1/   The average narent nays fees of about  ) 850  annually for each child
in primary school. Textbooks and other materials call for another
Rn 500 per child.  School expenses for two children at primarv school
absorb about 300/ of a small farmer's income after the basic needs of
his familv have been met.  A rural laborer w;ith a familv of four can
barely afford to send one child to school let alone nav for textbooks
and schor) materials.



found an averagez of only eight textbooks per class including the teacher's
copy, cormpared with an actual need of about 160 textbcoks.  There are few
countries in the world where the supply of textbooks is so meager.  Mioreover,
the lack of uniform textbcoks throughout -he country makes the attainment of
minimum standards diffitcult, particularly in remote rural areas.
3.12       Less than one-half of the 350,000 teachers in the secular primary
schools are qualified in terms of a three-year post junior secondary traininig
course.  The Assessment iindicates that typical primary teachers, while not
lacking in motivation, show little  initiative in th}eir methods.  Tney look
for guidance bo the headmeasters and inspectors but they too are often ill-
prepared to Instruct in the use of new techniques.  Govern:m,ent efforts to
provide teacher upgrading cou-rses in a few provinces have Tmaet with o-nly
limited success because they have been held in towns too distant for most
teachers and have generally ta'.en the form  of lectures with little practical
wor'kc and no follow-up.  Inspectors, who are often preoccupied with adminis-
trative matters, rarely contact teachers because of lack of transport. 1/
Consequent-Ly, teachers tend to be isolated professionally.
3.13         Pro agn for Quality Improyement.  The key points in any effort to
imnprove primary educatioin in Indonesia in the immediate future are an inte-
grated program of te-tbooks, teachers' guides, Ln-service teacher training
coulrses and special courses to upgrade supervisory personnel.  2/  Without
textboo'ks classroom teaching is restricted to the boring repetition of
routine facts and cannot establish the skills, habits and attitudes that
a changing society and developing econo-my demand-
3.14       In 1969 the government established a program for the production
of primary texLbooks w4th the a_id of UNICEF and the Canadian Government.
The essentlal objectives of the program were to:  (i) improve the quality
of textbook c-,atent; (ii) reduce unit costs through mass production; and
(iii) ensure that all primary studenLts have access to textbooks.  The ten-
year prograo. (1969-79) entails the production and distribution of 201 million
Lextbooks, sufficient to provide every primary student with texts in four
basic subjects:  Bahasa Indonesia (grades 1-6), mathermatics (grades 1-6),
social studies (grades 3-6) and science (grades 4-6).  A total of 2.7 million
books were produced and distributed by May, 1972; Canada and UNICEF have
donated the paper recuired for the productilon of a fu-rther 36 million books
during 1972-74.  A further 138 million textbooks are needed during 1974-79
to cc,.nplete the urogrini.  The proposed project would enable the government to
produce and distribute the balance of the books required.
1/   Irspectors are each expected to supervise an average of 180 dispersed
teachers on a rmonthly travel budget of Rp 300-500 (about US$1).
2/   Educatienal radio also has significant potential to improve the quality
of primary education and is now being studied by the government with
aid from tMESCO.



-6-
3.15      Primary schools not only need more textbooks but also better
textbooks. Before the introduction of new textbooks, their use in the classroom
needs to be evaluated as a basis for revisions. However, a lack of coordination
between the separate organizations responsible for primary curriculum develop-
ment and textbook production caused mathematics and science books in the text-
book program to be issued without prior testing and evaluation. Consequently,
teachers had difficulty in using them in the classroom. The proposed project
would assist the Ministry in integrating the development and testing of manu-
scripts with book production and with follow-up evaluation.
3.16      With the use of more and better textbooks teachers need help in using
them effectively. Unless teachers are taught to change their patterns of
teaching, they will perpetuate the routine habits they learned earlier in
primary school. Three methods are required:  (i) to issue teachers' guides
on the use of the new books and on the preparation. of any teaching aids they
demand; (ii) to organize in-service courses on the use of textbooks in
teaching; and (iii) to ensure "follow-up" of these courses by inspectors
to help the teachers master the new content and techniques. During the second
five-year plan (1974-79), the government intends to train the 350,000 primary
teachers in the use of modern teaching methods, including textbooks and
other teaching aids. The proposed project would assist in this in-service
training and also in upgrading the skills of school district inspectors,
on whom classroom teachers will depend for sustained guidance and support.
3.17      The central government will need to spend more on primary education
to improve its quality, to make it more relevant to the country's needs
and to provide -a base on which to build a more modern system of secondary
education. The government is expected to emphasize social services and parti-
cularly education in the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974-79). Projec-
tions 1/ of government expenditures on education indicate that routine
expenditures may triple from nearly Rp 50 billion (US$121 m) in 1970/71
to over Rp 150 billion (US$362 m) in 1978/79. Total public expenditure on
education and training would accordingly be between 3.1%-3.6% of GDP. The
proposed project has high government priority and would entail continued
expenditures of about Rp 2 billion on textbooks and teaching equipment or
approximately one percent of the projected routine and development expenditures
in 1978/79.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would support the government program of
improving the quality of primary education by:
(a)  the development of existing arrangements for the preparation
and testing of basic texts and related prototype teaching
aids;
1/   Based on analysis by Bank staff of recurrent costs per student and
government enrollment projections.



-7-
(b)  planning and financing the production and distribution of
138 milli n textbooks in four subjects (Bahasa Indonesia,
mathematics, science and social studies) for grades 1-6;
(c)  the in-service training of 350,000 primary teachers in the
use of textbooks and teaching aids; and
(d)  the upgrading of 2,800 supervisory personnel.
Curriculum Development, Manuscript Preparation and Testing
4.02      The project would assist the government in integrating existing
curriculum development activities, book production,.and primary teacher
training programs (Chart 3).  Curriculum development'has been coordinated
since 1971 by a goverlment-appointed central committee (The Committee
of Eleven) consisting of representatives of the Directorates (Chart 4),
teacher training institutes (IKIPs), universities and teachers' associations
and headed by the Director General of Education. In the context of the
project, the conmittee would allocate responsibility for the formulation of
syllabi and teaching methods. Assisted by specialist staff, it would approve
the programs of manuscript preparation, testing of textbooks and teachers'
guides and would review the progress of such programs. The Government
has agreed that the Committee of Eleven would undertake these responsibil'ties
in relation to the project.
4.03      The staff of selected IKIPs and universities are already engaged
in curriculum development and manuscript preparation. Subject material for
each grade as prepared by the raanuscript writers, would be tested for a full
academic year in an appropriate number of representative schools. Actual
classroan trials would ensure that the textbooks are relevant to the pupils'
environment and are usable by ordinary teachers. The project would provide
for short training sessions every two weeks for teachers in the trial schools
conducted by the curriculum development specialists and manuscript writers
and assisted by a UNDP expert. These sessions would provide the basis
for preparing teachers' guides. The manuscript writers would also develop
and test simple prototype teaching aids. The committee (para 4.02), working
closely with the proposed project implementation unit, would be responsible
for the review of the pupils' texts and teachers' guides produced after the
testing period is completed. The government has agreed that all prototype
manuscripts will be tested on a schedule to be agreed with the Association
and that teaching guides will be prepared and published simultaneously with
the textbooks.
Book Production
4.04      This project item would cover the procurement of paper, typesetting,
printing and distribution of 138 million textbooks for primary grades 1-6,
sufficient to cover the balance requiired for each student to have access to



- 8 -
textbooks in each subject by 1980 (para 3.14). The distribution by subjects
is as follows:
Millions of books
New     Revised         Replaced      Total
Bahasa Indonesia           58         -                6.6        64.6
Mathematics                 10        -               23.9        33.9
Social Studies              30        -                 -         30
Science                     -        9.4                -          9.4
Total                 98        9.4      .       30.5       137.9
In most subjects, more than one book is needed for each subject/grade.
For example, Bahasa Indonesia texts require a grammar book and readers
(Annexes 6 and 7).
4.05      The number of books required is based upon reasonable Ministry of
Education projections of primary school enrollments which are estimated to
increase from 13.4 million in 1970 to 19 million in 1979.  Tne use of books
would be limited to classroom work. The average life of a book is expected
to be six years; however, to ensure this life satisfactory storage facilities
would-be needed at each school. It is anticipated that the existing procedures
for book production as modified by the project would continue to operate after
the completion of the project and thus provide for new and revised texts during
the 1980's.
4.06      The Indonesian printing industry is capable of providing the pro-
jected output. However, domestic production of high grade paper is limited;
the paper (estinated at 23,500 metric tons) for the project would therefore
be imported. The quality of the paper and binding would be sufficiently
high to give each book an average life of six years. The conclusion of an
agreement, acceptable to the Association, between the Government of Canada
and Indonesia in regard to the supply of paper would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Credit. The government has agreed to provide appropriate
storage facilities for this paper and to ensure that funds would be made
available for the replacement of any paper that may be damaged in storage.
4.07      Distribution of books to District level in Java and Provincial
level outside Java would be included in the printing contracts, payment to
suppliers being made after certification of delivery to prescribed destina-
tions. This system already works well in Java. The government has agreed
that arrangements acceptable to the Association would be made for onward
distribution to school districts. School district inspectors would be res-
ponsible for distributing books to primary schools. Adequate time would be
allowed after printing to deliver books to the schools prior to the beginning
of the academic year in which they are first required (Chart 3).



-9
Primary Teacher Training
4.08      Training of primary teachers in improved classroom techniques and
the use of the new textbooks would be accomplished by in-service training
over a 6-year period. In-service training would be accomplished in three
ways. Firstly, 105 mobile teams of 2 to 5 tutors, operating out of 60 primary
teacher training institutions, would conduct 2-to 4-day training sessions
at centrally located primary schools in each district three times a year
for teachers responsible for subjects included in that yearts program.
Secondly, approximately every two weeks the same groups of teachers would
assemble at their central school to prepare lesson plans under the guidance
of the school district inspector and specially trained staff of the central
primary school. Thirdly, all primary teachers would receive general guides
compiled by the manuscript writing teams (para 4.03) to prepare them for the
new teaching methods and texts. The textbooks for the training sessions
would be the same as those distributed to schools before the start of the
academic year. In addition, audio-visual aids, e.g., films and tapes, would
be used at the training sessions. The teams would cover 17 provinces with
2,161 school districts and instruct approximately 315,000 serving teachers.
Special arrangements would be made for the nine more remote provinces (See
Map). The project would include the cost of purchase, use and maintenance
of vehicles and audio-visual aids for the mobile teams of tutors. Supplemen-
tary allowances for the administrative, pedagogic and supervisory personnel
participating in the project are also included.
4.09      The number of central schools at which each m.obile team could con-
duct courses would average 21 annually (Annex 8) but, in some provinces,
distance and difficulty of access may make it as low as 14. The 2,161 central
schools have been selected on the basis of accessibility by mobile teams and
primary teachers.  Four classrooms and up to six experienced teachers would
be needed at each location.
4.10      In order to ensure that the program of 2- to 4-day training sessions
at central schools is not impeded, reserve tutors would also be trained. The
mobile teams and their reserve staff would be selected from the instructors
in teacher training schools (SPGs) and some of the better mathematics and
science teachers from senior secondary school staff.  The government has
agreed to select suitable staff for the mobile and reserve units. It has
also agreed that these tutors would complete their own training at the three
main centers responsible for curriculum and manuscript development, (Jakarta,
Bandung and Jogyakarta) before starting in-service courses for primary school
teachers in a particular subject.
4.11      Poor communications malce it necessary to modify the training scheme
for 9 of the 26 provinces (see Map) where residential courses of longer
duration may be needed for those teachers in the more remote rural areas
together with special arrangements for follow-up work. Provision has been
made in the project for the cost of training the teachers in these nine
provinces. The government has presented an acceptable plan for a training
scheme for these nine provinces.



- 10 -
4.12      Pre-service training of student teachers in new methods and the
use of the new books would be given by the mobile teams or their reserve
units at their base teacher training colleges when not visiting central
schools. One-month in-service courses would be provided for the staff of
the public teacher training institutions not selected as mobile unit bases.
These courses would be conducted by the same staff that lead the training
courses for the mobile units. The government has agreed to provide a draft
plan, to be approved by the Association, for such courses within six months
of the signing of the Credit Agreement. The government has also agreed that
the pre-service teacher training curriculum would be amended to include
provision for modern teaching methods.
4.13      Teaching Aids.  The majority of primary schools lack material for
preparing simple teaching aids necessary for effective learning of science
and social studies. The textbook writers would deveLop kits of materials
and simple tools appropriate to the texts and which would enable primary
teachers to make their own teaching aids. The government has agreed to
consult with the Association within two years of the signing of the Credit
Agreement on its plan for the production and distribution of such teaching
aid kits.
4.14      The Inspectorate.  The mobile teams and the project administration
staff at central and provincial levels would be linked with primary school
teachers by school district inspectors who will need to visit individual
primary schools much more frequently than in the past to check on the avail-
ability and use of books and to lead the fortnightly training sessions at
the central school (para 4.08). Inspectors will receive training in teach-
ing methods and the use of textbooks. They would provide feedback to the
project implementation unit on availability of books and the impact of train-
ing programs. To carry out these new duties as well as their present
responsibilities, inspectors must have means of transport. The proposed
project would provide a motorcycle for each inspector, (outboard motors
for use with locally supplied boats for about 50 inspectors responsible
for island schools), and the funds required for their operation and maintenance
during the life of the project. The government has agreed to provide
sufficient funds thereafter for the operation, maintenance and replacement
of such vehicles, boats and motors.
4.15      Training of Supervisors.  The effectiveness of the in-service
training of primary teachers requires the full participation of a number
of supervisory personnel at different levels in the provincial education
structure in addition to the school district inspectors. The project would
provide for training courses for all such persons. The table below summarizes
the numbers and types of persons involved in this training. Fuller details
of training courses may be found in Annex 9.



- 11 -
Title                  Level       Number              Functions
Supervisory Persormel
1.  Ministerial Repre-       Provincial         26      Senior Ministry of Edu-
sentatives                                          cation officer in the pro-
vince
2.  Inspectors of Pri-       Provincial         52      Professional staff of
mary Education and                                 Ministerial Representative
Teacher Training
3.  Governor's Education    Provincial          26      Administration of Primary
Staff                                              schools
,, f
4.  District Inspectors       District         570      Administration of Primary
(Kabupaten)              Schools
5.  Inspectors                School         2,161      Coordination of training
District               sessions at central
(Wilayah)               schools; assessment of
teachers' progress
4.16      Government salaries are low and it is usual for government staff,
including teachers, to have more than one job (para 2.03). Tutors, inspectors
and selected central school staff involved will spend almost all their
available working time on the in-service training scheme, far more than is
required of them in their current jobs where a teacher frequently only teaches
18 hours a week and has a second or even a third job to provide enough for
his family needs. Many government officials receive additional allowances
for work outside their normal duties to compensate them for income foregone
in secondary employment.  The project would provide for supplemnentary payments
to school district inspectors, mobile tutors and participating central school
staff. In addition, it would provide for reasonable subsistence and related
expenses during the preliminary training coujrses (Appendix II).
4.17      Regular attendance by primary school teachers is essential for
successful training.  Discussions with the government have indicated that
the Ministry of Education would regard attendance at the training courses
as a mandatory qualiflication for promotion or for salary grade increases.
The government has agreed that within one year of signing of the Credit
Agreement, it would develop and publicize in consultation with primary
teachers and provincial officials, an appropriate scheme to ensure the
regular attendance of primary teachers at the in-service training courses.
4.18      Average pupil-teacher ratios at primary level are estimated to be
39:1. It is important that the average number of pupil per teacher should not
increase significantly during the in-service training scheme. Increase in
the number of established teaching posts has been restricted by the freeze
on government appointments (para 2.03).  The government has agreed that, in



- 12 -
order to maintain acceptable overall pupil-teacher ratios, recruitment of
teachers would be permitted as primary enrollment increases.
Technical Assistance
4.19      The project would provide 16 man-years of service as under:
(a)  an administrator/planner to advise the-project director on
the establishment and operation of administrative machinery
and financial control, particularly in regard to the project
sub-units and participating government officials at the
provincial level (3 man-years);
(b)  an educator to advise the project director on the content,
phasing and participation of staff in in,-sprvice teacher
training (3 man-years);
(c)  two specialists to assist in converting the results.of
experimental classroom work (para 4.03) into training
courses and manuals to be used by the mobile teams
(6 man-years); and
(d)  one program evaluator to assist the administrator in a
continuous assessment of project progress on such matters
as the effectiveness of mobile teams and participation
at the two-weekly training sessions (para 4.08) (4
man-years).
Specialists would be expected to work closely with personnel provided under
the relevant UNDP projects.  Specialists would be acceptable to the government
and the Association and would be employed on terms and conditions agreed
by the government and the Association.
4.20      In addition, the project would provide for 8 man-years of fellow-
ships in the teaching of mathematics (16 fellowships each of 6 month's duration).
Project Costs
4.21           The estimated cost by main project item is given in Annex 10 and
summarized below:



- 13 -
SUMMARY OF COSTS
Rupiahs (millions)              US$ (millions)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign  Total   %
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
Operating Costs      111.78      -          111.78   0.27    -         0.27
Equipment             12.42                  12.42   0.03    -         0.03
124.20     -          124.20   0.30    -         0.30   1
TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION
Paper                   -    3,763.26   3,763.26-. {-        9.09      9.09
Handling of Paper,
Printing and
Distribution      2,293.56    592.02   2,885.58   5.54   1.43         6.97  _
2,293.56  4,355.28   6,648.84   5.54  10.52    16.06  41
TEACHER TRAINING
Operating Costs   4,355.28       37.26   4,392.54  10.52   0.09    10.61
Vehicles and
Equipment           277.38    997.74   1,275.12   0.67   2.41         3.08
4,532.66  1,035.0O   5,667.66  11.19   2.50    13.69  35
PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION         95.22    120.06       215.28   0.23   0.29       0.52   1
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE             70.38    211.14       281.52   0.17   0.51       0.68   2
Subtotal        7,216.02  5,721.48  12,937.50  17.43  13.82    31.25
CONTINGENCIES
Physical             534.06    621.00   1,155.06   1.29   1.50         2.79   7
Price Increases   1,080.54  1,072.26   2,152.80   2.61   2.59          5.20  13
TOTAL PROJECT COST  8,830.62  7,414.74j  16245.36  21.33  17.91    39.24 100
4.22      Curriculum Development.  The project would provide funds ($0.3 mil-
lion) to cover the cost of manuscript writers' visits to schools for testing
prototype texts, materials for small-scale book production and the training
of the teachers in the trial schools.
4.23      Textbook Production.  The cost of book production is estimated at
$16 million for about 138 million books at an average cost of about 11 US
cents per book. Paper costs are wholly foreign exchange; the estimates are
based upon May 1972 prices for paper imported under the Canadian scheme



- 14 -
(para 3.14), viz., $383 per metric ton. The handling charge for paper
($20 per metric ton), a local cost, has been based upon experience of the
UNICEF and Canadian-assisted book programs. In accordance with current
practice, distribution costs are included as part of each printing contract
and average about 5% of total production cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded in 1971/72, the cost of typesetting, printing and distribution is
estimated at $271 per metric ton (of paper). The foreign exchange component
of printing covers the cost of imported materials, e.g., ink, plates and
depreciation on printing equipment.
4.24      Teacher Training.  The project cost would include $13.7 million
for supplementary allowances (Appendix II), transportation expenses and
teaching aids for the training of supervisors, mobile unit tutors, central
school staff and headmasters (para 4.15). The costs for the main teacher
training program (paras 4.08-4.11) are based upon expenditures in recent
similar Ministry programs or upon rates which, in the opinion of senior
government officials, would ensure full participation of the trainers. The
average cost per teacher for the in-service training program would be about
$52. Comparable training with equivalent courses on a full-time basis would
cost more than double the above amounts. The proposed project is economical;
it also provides a continuous impact on teachers' classroom habits with the
minimum disruption of students' work. The costs of training teachers in
remote areas (para 4.11) and trainers in the teacher training institutions
(para 4.12) not selected as bases for the mobile teams are included in this
item.
4.25      The costs of project administration, such as the training courses,
conferences, staff visits to the provinces and basic furniture, equipment
and facilities for the project unit and its sub-units in the proviaces would
be included in the total project costs.
4.26      Contingencies.  Project costs include provision for unforeseen
factors in the book production program (13%) to cover the possibility of
revision of mathematics books which have been introduced without testing
and in teacher training (57%) to provide for adaptation of the scheme to
particular circumstances in some of the less accessible provinces. Foreign
costs are expected to increase about 4% a year and local costs about 5%,
giving a total price contingency of 13% (Annex 11). The Canadian Government
would meet the contingency costs of paper arising from possible price increases
and unforeseen factors. Total contingencies amount to 20% of the overall
project cost including contingencies.
4.27      Foreign Exchange Component.  The total project cost is estimated
at $39.24 million with a foreign exchange component of $17.91 million (46%).
The latter represents 66% of book production costs, 18% of teacher training,
56% of project administration and 75% of technical assistance and fellowship
costs.
Proposed Financing
4.28      The project would be financed by a Canadian Government interest
free loan of up to Can$ 13.0 million, an IDA credit of US$13.5 million and a



- 15 -
Government contribution of US$13.6 million equivalent. The external financing
is arranged in parallel, with the Canadian contribution financing the c.i.f.
cost of the paper required for the textbooks amounting to 31% of the total
project cost. The IDA Credit would finance the foreign exchange costs of
the project excluding the paper (US$5.74 million), 90% of the cost of printing
and distribution of textbooks, and 18% of the teacher training costs, i.e.,
34% of the total project cost. The Indonesian Government would contribute
US$13.6 million equivalent for local currency costs or 35% of the total
project cost.
4.29      The following table summarizes the financing arrangements:
Ruoiahs (millions)             US$ (millions)
Local        Foreign      Total   Local   Foreign Total  %
IDA Credit        3,212.64    2,376.36,,  5,589.00   '7.76    5.74   13.50  34
Canadian Loan            -     5,038.3PV&- 5,038.38      -      12.17   12.17  31
Government of
Indonesia       5,617.98         -       5,617.98   13.57       -      13.57  35
TOTAL        8,830.62    7,414.74   6,245.36   21.33   17.91   39.24 100
/1   Includes Rupiahs 1,279.26 million (ITS$3.08 million) contingencies.
4.30      The Canadian Government interest-free loan would be repayable over
50 years with a grace period of 10 years.  The Government of Indonesia's
contribution of Rp 5,618 million averages about 702 Tnillion Rupiahs per year
during the implementation period. This would constitute a marginal change
in the current obligations of the government.
V.  IPMPLE?NTAT ION
5.01      Administration.  A project unit would be established in the
Hfinistry of Education in Jakarta and project sub-units in the provinces.
The project unit would be responsible for: (a) overall supervision of the
project; (b) coordination of manuscript development and testing: (c) textbook
production; (d) planning of training courses for the administrators,
supervisors and tutors involved in the primnary teacher training programs;
(e) training and assisting the provincial project sub-units which will plan
the local primary teacher training schemes; (f) budgeting of all costs for
the training programs; and (g) evaluation of the pedagogical aspects of the
training programs. The unit would include a full-time project director
responsible to the Director General of Education (Chart 4). It would also
include on a full-time basis (i) two assistants to the director (an educatio-
nal planner and a specialist in textbook production); (ii) two educators/
teacher trainers; and (iii) a finance officer. A procurement officer would
also be included. All the full-time project unit staff would be appointed
after consultation with the Association. The establishment of the project



- 16 -
unit and the appointment of the project director and his two assistants would
be conditions of effectiveness of the credit. The government has agreed
that the two educators/teacher trainers and the financial officer would be
appointed within three months of the date of effectiveness of the credit.
5.02      The project sub-units in the 17 Inner Provinces would be responsible
for (a) supervision of the project;(b) planning the bi-weekly training
programs and the itineraries of the mobile teams; and (c) budgeting and
accounting for the costs of the local training programs. The Ministerial
Representative would appoint the provincial project officer. A full-time
educational administrator and a finance officer would comprise the technical
staff of each project sub-unit. The government has agreed that the project
sub-units' educational administrators and finance officers would be appointed
in consultation with the director of the project unit -within six months of
the date of effectiveness of the credit.
5.03      A small evaluation team would be established in the project unit
to provide a continuous assessment of the primary teachers' participation
in the two-weekly meetings, evaluate the effectiveness of the mobile training
teams and the role of the school district inspectors. Working in close
cooperation with other project officials, the evaluators would devote the
greater part of their time to field assessments at the district level and
below. The team would submit quarterly reports to the project director and
Director-General of Education.
5.04      The project unit would provide the Association with quarterly reports
upon the progress of manuscript writing and testing, the printing and distri-
bution of textbooks and related teachers' guides, the progress of the teacher
training scheme and upon any other mutually agreed matters. Such reports
would include the evaluation team's assessment. The Association would
advise the Government of Canada at regular intervals of the progress of the
project. The government has agreed that bids for contracts for the succeeding
years' program of book production would be invited only after the Association
had determined that the current year's programs of manuscript writing and
testing, printing and distribution and teacher training were proceeding satis-
factorily.
5.05      In consultation with the Association, the government would develop
appropriate accounting procedures for the budgeting and disbursement of
project funds.
5.06      Procurement.  Paper for textbooks would be procured from Canada
under the provisions of a separate agreement with the Government of
Indonesia. In order to ensure quality work in typesetting through continuous
and close supervision by the script writers and the Ministry of Education
designers, all contracts for typesetting would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding by domestic printers. Since typesetting costs for all
books produced under the project would be only about $35,000, it is unlikely
that such work would attract foreign firms. It is important that textbooks



- 17 -
are delivered to schools by specific dates to avoid disruption of the
training schedule. The current practice of including the cost of delivery
in printing contracts offers a means of ensuring distribution to the proper
destinations in time. Further, the import of books in Bahasa Indonesia
is prohibited by law. Hence, contracts for printing and distribution of
textbooks would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding by domestic
priniters. All contracts for the supply of equipment would be awarded under
procedures consistent with the Association's guidelines on international
competitive bidding. Preferred domestic manufacturers of equipment would be
accorded a margin of preferer.ce equal to the existing rate of customs duty
applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is
lower.
Disbursements
5.07      An IDA Credit of US$13.5 million would cover 34% of the estimated
cost of US$39 million. It would finance 32% of foreign exchange costs and
about 36% of the local currency costs. The Canadian interest free loan
would finance the remaining part (68%) of foreign exchange costs. The
proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of eight years (Annex
12) to meet:
(a) 90 percent of the total cost of printing and distribution
of textbooks;
(b) 100 percent of c.i.f. costs of vehicles and equipment;
(c) 18 percent of the total cost of the teacher training
scheme; and
(d) 100 percent of the foreign costs of technical assistance.
Disbursenments for teacher training would be made against a certificate of
expenditure, the documentation of which would not be submitted for review
but would be retained by the Government and made available for inspection by
the Association during project supervision.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed project contains several innovations for the World
Bank Group. For the first time the Association would finance textbook
production, provide substantial direct assistance to a national primary
education system and support a six-year effort to upgrade the whole primary
teaching force.
6.02      Such innovations are well justified in the case of Indonesia.
Improvements in the quality of primary education have high priority in
relation to other types of education because: (a) primary education is
the only formal education which the majority of Indonesians are likely to



- 18 -
receive (para 3.07), and at present it is inadequate to provide the basic
skills in calculation and language that are necessary for productive employ-
ment; (b) improvements in primary education are necessary to provide a base
on which to reform secondary education; and (c) improvements at the primary
level now would not limit, rather they would support, the various optioins for
reform possible after the outcome of the Assessment (para 3.04). Within the
primary system the project would meet the key needs for quality improvement
viz., provision of textbooks, teachers' guides, in-service teacher training
and courses to upgrade supervisory personnel (para 3.13).
6.03      Moreover, the manuscript and textbook evaluation would help to
ensure that textbooks and teaching have a more practical content relevant
to the local situation. The distribution of standard textbooks throughout
the country would tend to equalize and raise educational standards and, by
providing free textbooks, the project would help to overcome one of the
serious obstacles to social mobility, i.e., the inability of most parents
in rural areas to meet the costs of their childrens' attendance at primary
school. Improvements in teaching methods and in the supply of books and
teaching materials should reduce repeater rates by enabling teachers to give
more attention to the individual child and to rely less on routine lecturing
to large groups. The provision of textbooks would also help reduce the
effects of poor teaching; bright students would be able to learn in spite of
it. In addition, the project would develop an administrative and supervisory
framework at provincial and district levels which is essential for the
introduction of further improvements.
6.04      The scheme for textbook production is based on Indonesian experi-
ence during the initial three years of implementing its textbook project
(para 3.14). The addition of classroom trials for all textbooks prior to
distribution should help to ensure that the books can be used by ordinary
teachers. The project would add only 1% to projected routine and develop-
ment expenditures in 1979/80, an attainable figure. Supporting services
such as in-service training, would be included to ensure the desired effects
of the investment in book production. A project monitoring system (paras
5.03-5.04) has been included to facilitate implementation. Continuous
assessment will facilitate the adaptation of project activities, e.g.,
teacher training, to changing or newly identified needs.
6.05      The benefits expected from the project will depend on four crucial
factors:
(a) content of the books;
(b) timing of publication;
(c) delivery system; and
(d) teacher training to ensure proper use of texts in
classrooms.



_ 19 9
6.06      The manuscript testing program (para 4.03), supported by technical
assistance, is intended to ensure the quality of the new texts. The ex-
perience of the government during the first three years of its book produc-
tion program has provided a basis for estimating realistic production
schedules. Distribution of books to District level in Java and Provincial
level outside Java would be the responsibility of the printing contractor,
a system which has already proved effective. The Association would review
during implementation the government's arrangements for distribution below
this level. In-service training courses and teachers' guides should be
sufficient to enable primary school teachers to adopt more modern teaching
methods. Problems inevitably will occur during the course of implementation.
However, the network of project sub-units and the creation of a separate
evaluation team should make it possible to monitor progress and so minimize
the risks inherent in the project.
VII. AGRMEEENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  arranoements for curriculum development, testing of textbooks,
preparation of teachers' guides and the coordination of such
arrangements with book production and distribution and in-
service teacher training (paras 4.02, 4.03, 4.07, 4.10 - 4.12,
4.17, and 5.04);
(b)  the preparation of a plan for training staff of primary teacher
training schools (SPGs) and the revision of the curriculum
in such institutions (para 4.12);
(c)  the production and distribution of teaching aid kits (para
4.13); and
(d)  the recruitment of teachers (para 4.18).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be an agreement between the
Government of Indonesia and the Government of Canada on the supply of paper
required for the project (para 4.06), the establishment of the project unit
and the appointment of the project director and his two assistants (para 5.01).
7.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a development credit
of US$13.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia.






APPENDIX I
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education System with Particular Reference to Primary Education
Structure and Administration
1.        There are two basic systems of elementary and secondary education.
The secular system under the Ministry of Education has a 6-3-3 structure.
The other, under the Ministry of Religious Affairs, has a 7-3-3 structure.
Third-level institutions follow upon each of these systems. A presidential
decree of March, 1972, made the Minister of Education responsible for overall
planning and control of education but it is too early to judge the effective-
ness of this action. Other Ministries organize and administer their own
education/training programs at the second and third levels. Private schools
can easily be established; many use the facilities and staff of public
schools.
2.        In March, 1972, a ministerial decree was issued to establish the
"Development School" (Sekolah Pembangunan), involving a reform wqhich would
gradually change the current 6-3-3 to an 8-4 structure, and the course of
studies from "general academic" programs--to those which would come closer
to the needs of development, with particular emphasis on training for
science and technology. In a policy statement concerning the reform, the
Minister referred to a "stabilization period" in 1972 and 1973 and a "con-
struction period"' from 1974 to 1984.
3.        Administration at the provincial level (Chart 1) shows that post-primary
education is controlled by the Perwakilan (the Ministry of Education represen-
tative) through his inspectorate. His inspectors of primary education super-
vise the educational aspects of primary education but its administration falls
under the Provincial Governor. Below the provincial level is the primary
school district supervisor (Binwil) who normally has between 20 and 40
schools to supervise. Usually a promoted primary school headmaster, he is
often more poorly paid than younger, better educated teachers whom he is
expected to super-vise. He frequently has neither office, vehicle nor travel
allowance. The provision of in-service training and transport facilities
for primary school supervisors is essential to any effort to improve the
quality of primary education.
4.        Private schools are of three types:  subsidized, aided and fully
private. Fully private schools are not effectively regulated with respect
to curriculum, physical standards or fees charged. To become an aided school,
the school must have operated for at least two years as fully private school,
have at least two qualified teachers, be operated by a recognized body and



APPENDIX I
Page 2
75% of its students must fulfill state school entrance requirements. An aided
school receives some assistance from the government for teachers' salaries.
Fees are not regulated. After three years as an aided school, it may become
subsidized if all students meet state entrance requirements, if it offers
the full curriculum and if it has at least three qualified teachers. The
subsidy consists of either reimbursement of all teachers' salaries or the
employment of state-paid teachers in the school. With a few exceptions, the
private schools are generally of lower quality than the public. This blend
of loosely controlled private schools makes collection of data on the school
system very difficult. While a more comprehensive process of data collection
and analysis has begun, reasonably reliable data are available for only one
year (1970) and analysis of trends is impossible.
Primary Education
5.        Primary education covers six grades in secular and seven in
religious schools.  The academic year, beginning in January, consists of
three terms of about 13 weeks each. Ordinary schools are fully co-educational
but religious schools, while accepting both sexes, keep them apart as much
as possible. The amount of time each child spends in school varies considerably
according to the location and grade. Schools start between 6:30 and 7:30 a.m.
and may close at about 1 p.m. In some cases, the premises are used by private
or public primary or secondary schools in the afternoon. Not infrequently, a
shortage of classrooms and/or teachers compels shift work for some classes,
usually in the lower grades. Some children may have less than three hours
of instruction per day; others as many as five hours.
6.        The average class size in primary schools is 38 students but it is
not unusual to find classes ranging from 50 to 60 in Grade I, falling to 17
in Grade VI because of high attrition rates. A rough analysis of crude
student flows using sketchy pre-1970 data shows that of 100 students entering
Grade I only 35-40 finish Grade VI. National Assessment of Education findings
are that one of the main reasons for this high wastage is parents'. inability
to pay school fees. Parents tend to withdraw their children after Grade
III-IV by which time they feel that their children have been given sufficient
ability in literacy and numeracy.
7.        Although many schools use the regional language in the first three
grades, it is becoming more common to use Bahasa Indonesia in all the lower
grades. The change from the regional to the national language presents few
problems, partly because Bahasa Indonesia is a very simple language.
8.        Books supplied through the Government textbook projects are begin-
ning to reach the schools but classroom practice is still based on the past.
Children are not encouraged to ask or answer questions. The teacher's own
educational background is weak and he has so little access to supplemental
reading materials that he is often unable to answer childrens' questions on
the new books.  At Grades V and VI all are preoccupied with examinations;
entrance to secondary schools is by competitive examination since applicants
far exceed available places.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
9.         The latest figures for primary schools were:
Prinary Schools 1970
Secular                         elijious
Total   Public   Private   Total    Public    Private
No. of Schools        64,000  53,000   11,000    13,960    360           13,600
/1
No. otf Pupils         13.4--n 11.39 m  2.01 m        2.5 m   0.1 m       2.4 m
% of 7 to 13. age group Secular Schools 65%         Religious 12%
/1   Boys:  7.2 million; Girls:  6.2 million
10.       The Ministry of Education projects a total of 19.1 million students
in Grades I through VI in 1979. The projection for Grade I is 4,694,000
representing 117% 1/ of the projected population age 7. Enrollments in
religious (madrassah) schools, would raise the figure to 134% 1/ if the
madrassah enrollments grow at the same rate as the population. Given the
spread of ages by grade, these figures are possible but it is likely that,
if the Ministry of Education's projections prove to be correct, saturation
at Grade I will be close in 1979. However, the expansion of primary educa-
tion is dependent to a significant extent on parents' ability to pay fees.
The Ministry's projections, which visualize a 4.5% annual growth rate in
Grade I enrollmiients from.n 1970 to 1979 against an estimated 2.5% rate of
increase in population, are feasible.
Prima-y_S aching Staff and Teacher Trai nink
11.       There were 341,800 full-time and 5,700 part-time teachers in the
secular schools in 1970, giving a pupil-teacher ratio of 39:1.  The religious
schools ihave an estimated 82,500 teachers, giving a pupil-teacher ratic of
30:1. About 32% of the primary teachers are women. One study found as few as
25% of the primary teacher had full official qualifications (three years
of teacher training after junior secondary school); about 60% had partial
qualifications (four years of teacher training after primary school); and
15% had no professional training at all. The National Assessment Study
data, haoever, suggest as many as 64% of the teachers have full qualifications
and more recent 1971 data from a few provinces suggest that perhaps 40-50%
are fully qualified. The primary teacher training schools alone graduate
over 30,000 new fully qualified primary teachers annually while teacher
replacement requirements as estimated by the Ministry of Education are only
about 14,000 a year.  The Ministry proposes to close down a number of primary
teacher training colleges (SPGs), and merge facilities to create miore
effective institutions.  Some of the new graduates are employed unofficially
at lower than normal wages by the primary school parent/teacher associations.
A few others go on to higher training institutes and some obtain other types
of employment.
1/   In excess of 100% due to overage students.



APPENDIX I
Page  4
12.       Assuming a pupil:teacher ratio of 39:1, the projected enrollment
for Grades I through VI would necessitate an addition over the nine years
of about 134,000 teachers. In 1971 and 1972 the Ministry of Education was
allocated 10,000 extra posts for all levels of education. The quality
of primary teaching could be severely affected by staff shortages if
further increases in the size of the teaching force is not permitted.
13.       The following tables give the latest enrollment data for primary
teacher training schools:
Secular Teacher Training Schools (SPGs) 1970
Public              Private
Total               Subsi'dized          Other
Institutions                515         224         90               201
Students                 99,400 /1  65,100    16,000              18,300
/1   men:  52,700; women: 46,700
Pupil: Full-time
Full Time        Part Time         Equivalent Teacher
Teachers          3,710           4,460                  19:1
Religious Teacher Training Schools (PGAs) 1971
Total           Public          Private
Ins titutions
four-grade schools        1,608             149            1,459
six-grade schools           382             118               264
Total          1,990             267             1,723
Students
four-grade schools    353,294            45,928          307,366
six-grade schools       143,324          81,695           61,629
Total        496,618         127,623          368,995



APPENDIX I
Page 5
Pupil: Full-time
Full Time      Part Time         Eq uvalent Teacher
Teachers
four-grade schools   14,520            1,626                  23:1
six-grade schools        5,541         2,099                  23:1
14.        Training in both religious and secular institutions is academic.
The methods used are little better than those used in primary schools.
There are no laboratories or specially designed practical rooms in any of
the training institutions and libraries are poor.  UMICEF has given equip-
ment for teaching, administration and agricultural work to all the public
secular teacher training schools which has enabled, them to conduct a little
practical science and home economics education, make a few teaching aids
and introduce such practical work as chicken raising.  In some cases the
tools have been used by the students to make school furniture.  One exception
to this generally gloomy picture is art, handicrafts, music and dancing.
Work of good quality in these cultural subjects is often found in the
secular schools.
15.        In the last year of the course, each student does two or three
hours of practice teaching weekly at local primary schools. However, the
*riethods which the student-teachers use are far from up-to-date. Even where
the training staff has contact with the experiments conducted under the
curriculum development schemes, they have not introduced them into their
training. Any reform of primary teacher training must include the retraining
of the training school staffs as one of the essential elements.
16.        In-service training of teachers is conducted under various schemes
but reaches few of the serving primary school teachers.  The Directors of
Primary Education and of Teacher Training have separate funds which they
sometimes combine and use for courses - usually lacking in practical work -
at the provincial level. Individuals in charge of curriculum development
projects conduct their own more practical courses to spread the results
of their experiments. A UNICEF-supported educational development pilot
project in West Sumatra included upgrading courses. Most upgrading courses
provide no systemu for releasing teachers fromi normal duties and no incentive
for the courses.  Moreover, the courses are usually too far from the teachers'
homes.
Curriculum  DevelopS,ent
17.        Current work on curriculum development started in 1969/70 with a
project for the development of primary school curricula under the Director
of Primary Education.  The work was divided by subject areas:  Bahasa
Indonesia; Bahasa Java and art; Bahasa Sunda and family life (home economics);
mathematics and science; and social studies.  Groups were given the respon-
sibility or' experimenting with the results of these separate developmental



APPENDIX I
Page 6
activities as an integrated curriculum.  The social studies group has
failed so far to produce material but good practical experimental work is
being carried on, particularly in Bahasa Indonesia and mathematics.
18.       The Minister of Education has set up a Committee of Eleven,
drawn from the Directorates, IKIP's, universities and the Teachers' Asso-
ciation, for coordinating the development of curricula. This Committee set
up eight groups located in eight IKIP's, each of which was to formulate and
test its own curricula for all twelve grades of primary and secondary
in accordance with the Committee's very broad guidelines. Many of the
earlier activities were located in these same IKIPs and, after an interval,
they have now been absorbed into the Development School experiments. The
experiments are at various stages, ranging from a full program for all
grades at Padang, West Sumatra, to experiments which have just commenced
in Bandung. Most of the experiments will not be ful4y developed by the end
of 1973, although a decision on the curriculum for the development schools
is supposed to be made during that year.
Textbook Production
19.       To overcome the shortage and high cost of textbooks, the Govern-
ment, with aid from UTICEF and the Canadian Government, established in 1969
a textbook project to supply approved textbooks free to all children in
primary schools, including religious schools. The first books issued were
in mathematics. At about the same time, the Minister of Education decreed
that the "new maths" would be used in Indonesian schools. Rights to tran-
slate and adapt the Entebbe maths to Indonesian circumstances were obtained.
The books in this series for Grades II and III have already been issued and
those for Grades IV through VI will be in the schools by the end of 1973.
There has been virtually no testing of these texts in Indonesian schools
and there are no Indonesian teachers with experience in using this approach
to mathematics. Similarly the copyright of a series of science texts
for Grades IV, V and VI was purchased from an Indonesian publisher, revised
slightly by a commmittee of teachers and issued to schools, without trial
in Indonesian schools and without the equipment needed to perform experi-
ments described in the books.
20.       Proper manuscript development and testing has taken place with
the Bahasa Indonesia textbooks. The manuscript for Grade I was finally
revised in July, 1972, after trial and that for Grade II will be available
in January, 1973. Experiments with the subsequent books are to be carried
out in an annual sequence.
21.       The Financing of Education.  In 1970/71, the latest year for
which the most comprehensive financial and enrollment data are available,
the central government budget. for education and training amounted to
Rp 57.5 billion ($138 million) or 13% of total national budget allocations
(Annex 2). Expenditure on formal education was about US$6.75 per student
or about US$1.00 per capita, one of the lowest figures in any country.
Taking into account provincial and other local expenditures of Rp 3 to 4



APPENDIX I
Page  7
billion (US$7-10 million) and school fees of about Rp 22 billion (US$53 mil-
lion), total expenditures on all education and training amounted to about
2.6% of GDP. Teachers salaries and allowances make up over 73% of routine
budget allocations in fiscal year 1972/73 but, despite substantial pay
increases in the last two years, primary teachers' salaries in 1972 averaged
only about Rp 8,000-10,000 ($20-25) per month, including all government
allowances.
22.       In the development budget for 1972/73 primary education receives
only 6% of development funds for the education sector, the majority being
earrmarked for improve.ments in vocational education in secondary schools.
The greater part of this primary development budget is for textbook pro-
duction, improvements in the primary curriculum and teaching techniques
but these allocations anount to only about Rp 25 (6 ceints) per primary school
student, insufficient for one textbook.
23.       Fees for both private and public schools, which provide essential
additional resources for running the education system (para 21) are used
mainly to supplement salaries and maintain school buildings. However, they
impose a severe strain on most family budgets.  Programs which improve
the quality of education without increasing the direct costs to parents
are clearly a priority consideration for thie government.
24.       External Aid.  Grants and loans from private, bilateral and mul-
tilateral agencies amounting to about USS10.2 million had been comnitted
between 1968 and June 1971.  Most of these funds have been for experts,
fellowships, teaching aids and some equipmernt. Of particular relevance
to the proposed project ha-ve been Ford Foundation assistance to the
National Assessment of Education for identifving priority needs in the
development of education and funds (approximately $3.4 million), from Canada
and UNICEF for primary school books and equipment. In addition, UNDP
continues to finance a program to strengthen educational planning.






APPENDIX II
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Allowances
1.        Tutors, inspectors and central school staff involved in the teacher
training scheme would be paid certain allowances to defray the additional
living expenises entailed in conducting courses in their respective areas
of responsibility and to compensate for loss of income from secondary employ-
ment foregone (para 4.16). The payments, details of which are set out
below, would be covered by the project and ensure tha't these persons devote
their full energies to the in-service training scheme.
Daily    Number of    Annual Rate
Rate (Jp)  Days/Year        (Rp)
Mobile Team Members                   900          252       226,800 ($548)
School District Inspectors            450           24       10,800 ($ 26)
Central School Staff                  350           24        8,400 ($ 20)
2.        Similar allowances would be paid, in accordance with current
government practice, for all persons undergoing training courses to prepare
them for participation in the supervisory, administrative and pedagogic
aspects of the project.
Daily     Number of    Annual Rate
Rate (Rp)   Days/Year         (Rp)
Ministerial Representatives          2,750          7           19,250
Provincial Inspectors of
Primary Education and
Teacher Training                   2,750          7          19,250
District Inspectors                  2,250          7           15,750
School District Inspectors           1,700          7/14        11,900/23,800
Mobile Tutors                        2,250         21/28        47,250/63,000
Central School Staff                 1,100          7            7,700
Headmasters                          1,050          3            3,150
3.        The rates have been established in discussion with government
officials and are based upon existing practices.






APPENDIX III
INDONESIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
A.   Specialist Services
1.        The project would include provision for 16 man-years of specialist
service to assist the government in implementing the project and training
local counterparts (para 4.20). Such technical assistance would include:
Total
Cost
Man-years    US$'000
1.   Administrator/Planner                    3             114
2.   Educator                                 3             114
3.   Teacher trainers (2)                     6             228
4.   Program evaluator                        4_            152
TOTAL                       16.0           608
2.        The period of specialist services would extend through 1977 (see
attached schedule). Specialist staff would liaise with personnel provided
under relevant IUNDP projects, in particular INS/71/537 and INS/72/023 which
are concerned with curriculum development and primary teacher training.
B.   Fellowships
3.        The project would include provision for 8 man-years of fellow-
ships as follows:
Mlathematics (16 for 6 months each)        8       40
4.        Fellowships would be tenable in a country in the region which
already has considerable experience of new mathematics teaching.






APPENDIX III
Page 2
TIME SCIEDULE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IMPLEMENTATION
Year of Project Implementation
First     Second       Third         Fourth          Fifth
A.  Specialists                       Number    1 2 3 4   5 6 7 8   9 10 11 12   13 14 15 16  17 18 19 20    Man Months
a. Advisers to Project Director
1.  Education Specialist       1          x x x   x x x x   x  x  x  x    x                                   36
2.  Planner/Administrator      1          x x x   x x x x   x  x  x  x    x                                   36
b.  Teacher Trainers                2           x x   x xxx    x  x  x  x    x  x                                 72
c. Evaluator                        1                  X XX X   X x    x X      X  X  I X    x  x  X  X x
192
B. Fellowships
a.  Mathematics Teachers           16           X x    x x                                                        96






TNDONESIA
EDUCATION: STRUCTURE, ENROLLMENT AND TEACHERS 1970
Enrollment                             Equivalent                    Pupil:
Age Group       Enrolluent      as % of         Teaching Staff        Full-Time      % of Staff    Teacher
Level                ge Group  Populationl'       (000's)      Age Group    Full-Time  Part-Time   Teachers          Qualified      Ratio
PRIMARY                        7-13     20,770,000      15,895,000        76.5
Secular                                               13,395,000                   341,800      5,700        343,225          255/         39:1
Religious (Madrassah)                                  2,500 0001/                  82,5001/    NA             82,500                      30:1
JUNIOR SECONDARY4/            14-16       7,715,000       1,497,230       19.4
General                                                   982,600                   42,680    21,540           48,065         NA           20:1
Religious (Madrassah)                                     195 0001/                  11,5001/   NA             11,500         NA           17:1
Vocational                                                127,070                     9,405      4,305         10,481         NA           12:1
Technical                                                 182,560                    11,825      4,860         13,040         NA           14:1
Agricultural                                               10,000                      NA       NA              NA                          NA
SENIOR SECONDARY-/            17-19      7,008,000          685,855        9.8
General                                                   278,300                    11,730    11,860          15,683         NA           18:1
Religious (Madrassah)                                      45,0001/                   3,5001/   NA              3,500         NA           13:1
Vocational                                                131,225                     4,832      7,390          7,295         NA           18:1
Technical                                                 105,070                     2,320      5,680          4,213         NA           25:1
Agriculture                                                11,300                       361      1,231            771         NA           15:1
Teacher Training
(Prinmary                                               99,400                     3,710      4,460           5,197         NA           19:1
Teacher Training
(,Junior Secondary)                                     15,560                        185     2,590           1,048         NA           15:1
HIGHER                        20-24      10,240,000         250,900        2.4
Universities                                               90,461                          2'
Institutes of Technology                                    7,431                     7,150-'   6,730          10,515         NA           10:1
Institutes of Agriculture                                   2,346
Teacher Training                                           32,691                     2,660?-/   3,760          4,540         NA             7:1
Religious                                                  18 0001/                     7501/   NA                750         NA            24!1
Minlisterial and private                                  100,0003/                    NA    'NA
Source:  Statistics on Education under the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Religious Affairs.
1/  Estimate on basis of 1971 statistics.
2/  Adjusted.
3/  Estimate.
4/ The enrollments in religious teacher training schools (PGAs) cut across the junior/senior secondary structure.
There were a total of about 500,000 students in these schools, representing 3.4% of the population age 14-19,
with about 20,000 full-time and 3,700 part-time teachers, giving a student:teacher ratio of about 23:1.
5/  Fromn 1969 General Education Statistics.  More recent data suggest a substantially greater proportion of qualified
teachers, possibly as high as 50-60%.



ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
ROUTINE AND DEVELOPMENT BUDGETS AND ALLOCATIONS
FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(in millions of Rp)
1969/70        1970/71      1971/72     1972/73
Routine Budget
1.  Total Budget              216,500         310,700     343,340      431,500
2. Of which budget for
education & training      32,500         48,979       64,1441      83,871
a.  Ministry of Education 12,677          16,70o(      20,905       27,758
b.  Ministry of Home
AffairsI'             13,546.2/      20,999       30,666       39,475
c. Yinistry of Religion  14,200            8,170        8,790       11,563
d. Ministry of Agricul-
ture                      77             93          163         120
e.  Other Ministries        2,000           3,017       3,917'       4,955
3.  2 as % of 1                15.0%           15.8%       18.8%        19.2% o
4. 2a as %d of 2               39.0%          34.*J40f     32.4%        33.1%
5. 2a, b & c as % of 1         14.0%           14. 8%      17.6%        18.0%
Development Bdget/
1. Total Budget                92,830        128,170      175,720      226,100
2. Of which budget for
education i training       8,515          8,538        8,973      12,218
a.  Ministry of Education  5,213           5,320        6,120        7,920
b.  Ministry of Religion      533             586         596          652
c. Mrinistry of Agricul-
ture                     469            410          363         934
d.  Other Yinistries        2,300           2,200       1)8914       2,712
3.  2 as % of 1                 9.1%           6.6%O        5.1%         5.4%
4.  2a as % of 2               61.2,          62.3%        68.2%        614.8%
Source:  Ministry of Finance, except where noted.
i/ Includes only transfers to provinces for primary school teacher salaries.
Ministry of Home Affairs Budget for own staff training institutes included
under "other ministries".
2/ Mission Estimate
3/ Excludes Project Aid.



INDONESIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
NIT57RY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
ROUTINE BUDCET (BUDGETED AND ACTUAL EXPENDITURES)
(Rp Million;)
Slary & Allovances             Nareciale               Naintananee                                                                          T Travel Costs  ubsidy  Total
Year             Administrative Unit                           Budgeted    Actual        Budgeted   Actual         Budgeted   Actual          Budgeted  j Actual        Budgeted    Actual          udgeted    Actual
1969/70             Secretary General                              2132.2       3326.6      379.4         359.7         16.9        16.9            30.9   |   23.5          70.5        69.2          2630.0       3795.9
Directoratc of Basic Educ.(Pr.& Sec,)   5919.6              5644.1       691.4        662.1         34.8        36,0            65.4        57.0          -           -             6711.1      6399.3
Directorate of Higher Education                2152.7       1596.3       474.3        448.3         22.5        21.1            22.5        19.8          _           _             2671.9      2085.5
Directorate of Sports                           965.7        610.7        51.3         47.6          2.4         2.6            15.7        13,7          _                         1035.2       674.7
Directerate of Culture                          225.4        161.4        69.8         66.9         14.4        13.4            12,7        10.3          _           _              322.3       251.8
TOTAL                 11445,2      11352.5      1698.1       1615.8         95.2        93.7           150.0       127.0         70.5        69.2          13459.0    13258.3
1970/71            Secretary General                           1  2287.2        2293.1    1025.9          999.7         57.0        45.3            66.8       54.6          65.0        37.5          3502.0       3430.8
Inspectorate General                       1    11.2            1.7       15.0         14.7          3.0         3.0             7.5         7.5          -           -               36.7        26,9
Direc-ocate of Educatio                       10993.4       9109.3    1012.9          966.1         47.8        44.6          120.5         87.3          -           -           12172.5    10207.2
Directorate of Youth & Sports                  1115.5       1336.8        83.7         79.6         14.0        12.3            35.9        33.6          _           -             1249.1      1462.3
Directorate of Culture                          230,4        213.6        50.7         47.6         13.8        12.4            13.7        11.6          _                          308.6       285.2
Office of educational Development             _  17.6         22.5    _45.6            45.1          5.0         4.9             6.0         5.3          _                           74.2        77.9
TOTAL                 14655.3      12377.6    2233.8         2152.8         138.6       122.5          250.4       199.9          65.0        37.5         17343.1   15490.3
1971/72            Secretary lenoro-                              11471.5                   1559.6                     115.4                      325.3                      90.0                     13561.6
In-pectorate General                             13.6                     28.8                       7.5                        25.0                      -                           74.9
Directorate of Education                       5971.6                    575.0                      50.0                        25.0                      -                         662i,6
Directorate of Youth & Sports                   186.9                    120.7                       15.0                       17.5                      -                          340.Z
Directorate of Culture                           95.7                     99.8                      15.0                        12.5                      -                          223.0
OMCice of Educationol Development                18.4                  _51.4                          7.5                        6.0                      -                           83.3
TOTAL                 17757.7                   2435,3                      210.4                      411.3                 1    90.0                     20904.6
1972/73            Secretary General                              17459.7                   2387.1                     354.4                       356.8                    172.6                     20660.6
Inspectorate General                             18.6                     30.8                       9.0                        30.0                      -                           88,4
Directorate of Education                       3853.4                   1939.2                     150.0                        35.8                                                5978.5
Directorate of Youth & Sports                   361.7                    160.6                      18.0                        17.5                      -                          557.8
Directorate of Cultore                           175.5                   145.1                       27.5                       12.5                       -                          360.6
Office of Ec-ea-iocal Develapeant                37.0                     60.0                        9.7                        6.0                      -                          112.6
TOTAi                 31905.9                   4652.9                      568.6                      458. 6                   172.6                      27758.5                   a
* lleorganizatio- of Ministry effective this year.
Source: Routine Budgets, Ministry of Education and Culture, various years.



A1INEX 4
INDONESIA
NINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
DEVELOPMENT BUDGETS 1969/70-1972/73
(Rp. Fdllions)
Five Year
1969/70            1970/71             1971/72             1972/73       Plan Esti-
mated
Budgeted Realized  Budgeted Realized  Budgeted Realized  Budgeted Realized  1969/1974
1.  Education Sub-sector                                   --
a. Quality Improvement in
Primary Schools             380      272       423       382       423                 450                3348
b. Increase in Vocational
Education in Sec.          309       168       442       285       442                1400                2500
Schools
c. Improvement of Technical
& Vocational Education    2495      1949      2165      1636      2173                2250                21373
d.  Improvement in Teachers'
Education                  345       224       233       206       233                 325                2621
e.  Development of Higher Ed. 1726       1537      1739      1332      2539                3000               15500
f. Expansion of Community &
Adult Education             160      128       156       136       156                 200                1742
g.  Development of Education    _          _         155      133       155                  230                6645
Sub-Total           54i5      4278      5312      4109      6121                7855               53729
2. Culture Sub-Sector
a. Development of Art
Culture                    196       147       206       164       206                 300                4305
b. Intensification of
Sports Activities            99       93       124       113       124                 I45                  966
Sub-Total            295       240       330       277       330                 415                5271
3. General                            -        -         200      162        200                 500                  _
4.  TOTAL (1+2+3)                   5710     4518       5842     4386      6651                 8800               59ooo
Source:  Development Budgets, Ministry of Education and Culture, various years.



oo.COo<CoC            0,00,-    CC                   CoO          oo   COO C.C000.OC0 000.00(0000,000
000000    0<00CC       C CO    000000.00           000000 CC00CCCCCC   CCCo,000C
(0'      C             00000000  0              '00''''      C
000,0CC   00    00.100              C0IA'00    COC       000000000    0000      COOCOOC
oooooCCoooo ICC  0000000-0 -                     o.-oOoCIoCCoOCo 0    00CC, CC
0C00CC0..C.  COOC            0'C  COCC000  C0000C'.000C000000000  o0*                          00000000  CCC
- 0000000000.-C CCC   C    000000  0000  COCOOC    00000  CC   CCC   CC   0000go0                00<000000.  0
C    00000    000000000C  CC        C 000CC   00CC00C0    000000
0    oC000C00000    0 .00.0   00   0000  CC0- C    000<00                         0000 CCo'o-OCCCC         C
CC00000ooCC0       00CC        C    <oooC0                  c02C                            000000 Coo0.C.o 00
00CC
Coo,        .00  C      0C00000.0000000000-.C0000000C.CO
*      CC        3    000000000ooO0000          '  l00.CC-00000  00   00   CoCOA  0<  OooCo  00  0.CC,.,C000   00-A.CCO.<00.0C.
00004C00                                               J                                      0                                                        00                       6
OCCfloCCCCC                  CCCC0CC            000000000CC   C00C.0CCo.C00000-CCOOO0                                         0'0'C4
4.A400'C-Croo                400'COO000  C  C  o000000.C0000    CCON00'o
Coo CC0'*C0C 0000000            _            .                             CC CACOC00    CCC  CO 00- 00
CCCCC                        CC00000CA CC  0000    CCC OICO  30000000100 POOCCCC0C'00CCCCC0CCC  OCCO   00CC
000.00.0              <CC      00000CC   C                 C  CCC 00    00 C.000000                          <CCC'  o..         C    . C          CC
C  0.00               0  00,-C                      00<      C         000    oCC                      0.           C    <00    C
C 00000   CC                 C    CC                       C.              C    C    00000                    C            C
0;
00C00000000000000..0.0000000  C'o000000C.0000    000000000000                -00000C-00000C0004AooO.00000000C0    4000      j            C0-C-O-           C      00






ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
CONSOLIDATED TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION SC.;EDILE
(in Millions of Books)
Number
of
Volum.es  197M/7pF 1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  Total
GRADE I
Mathematics              2      10.05        -        -         -         -     10.05
Bahasa Indonesia         3        -         -         -         -        3.51R   3.51
Sub-Total                -      10.05                 _         _        3,51   13.56
GRADE II
Mathematics              2         _       8.13        -   '    -          -      8.13
Bahasa Indonesia         3        -         -                            3.l1R  3.11
Sub-Total                -        -        8.13        -        -        3.11  11.24
GRADE III
Mathematics              2         -        _         7.28       -         -      7.28
Bahasa Indonesia        6       23.6        -                             -     23.6
Social Studies           2       7.9        -          -       4.4OA       .38  12.68
Sub-Total               -       31.5        -        7.28      4.4:)     0.38   43.56
GRADE IV
Mathematics              2        -         -         4.12        -         -     4.12
Bahasa Indonesia         4        -       114-34       -          -        -   14.334
Social Studies           2        -        7.09        _-                  -    7.09
Science                  1        -        4.05E       -          -        -    14.05
Sub-Total                -        -       25.148      14.12      -         -   29.60
GRADE V
Mathematics              2        -                    -        3.53       -    3.53
Bahasa Indonesia         4        -         -       12.48         _             12.48
Social Studies           2        -         -        6.28         -             16.28
Science                 1         -         -        3.38E       _         _     3.38
Sub-Total                -        _         _       22114       3-53       -   25.67
GRADE VI
Mathematics              2        -         -          -          -         .82    .82
Bahasa Indonesia        14        -         -          -        7.65       -    7.65
Social Studies           2        -         -          -        3.35       -     3.85
Science                 1         -         -         -         1.95E      -     1.95
Sub-Total                -        -         -         -        13.45      0.82 14.27
GRAND TOTAL              -      41.55     33.61    33.514      21.38      7.82137.90
Notes: Grade scecific teachers' guides are included with the student's book for
each grade: general teacherst guides are included with the student's book
in the lowest grade in which that subject is taught.  Bahasa Indonesia
books include both readers and grammars.
R = replacement of worn out books.
E   new edition of previously issued book.
A   atlas,
*   Fiscal Years April 1 - March 31.






ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
BOOK D=!PVERY AND TEACHER TRAINING SCHEDULE
_________      Subjects & Grade                   Nlnrber of TutDrs
Cal'endar Year   Bah. Ird.   Math  ISozial Studies   Science  -or Mobile Team
1975            l&2                                                     2 2/
197S"             3          1           3             -       i
1977              4          2           14                            14
1978              5        3 &           54                             5
1979              6          5           6               55
1980              -          6                           6              3
1/ Books required for teacher training in any academic year (which is
the same as the calendar year) -will be delivered to the schools
before the conmencement of taat year.  Books in Bahasa Indonesia
Grades 1 and 2 will be printed under the existing book production
program but tested for a full year under the proposed project.
2/  In each year there will be one tutor in general pedagogr in
addition to the necessary subject specialists.



INDONESIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
EQUIR EMENTS FOR MOBILE TEAMS
1            2          3            4             5             6           7                  8                      9
Average No. of                              Adjusted Ratio
Number of   Number   Number of                  Schools per                  Teachers/       of Central                    Number
Urban          of     School       Number of   School           Number of   School           Schools/Teasm       of Mobile 'Teams
Province             Districts  Districts DiLstricts   Schools        District       Teachers    District         (Col 3f by Col 9 ) Required    _
Java           Jakarta                  5            -         49          1,450         30            12,000        245               25                      2
West Java                4          20        429          9,570          22           54,400        127                20                    21
Central Java             6         29         530         11,920         23            74,600        141                22                    24
Jogjakarta               1           4          33         1,450         44            10,800        327                16                     2
East Java                4          29        359          9,720          27           52,600        147                21                    17
Sub-Total         20          82       1,400         34,110         -           204,400          -                -                     66
Average for Region       -           -         -             -            24 ,           -           146       r        21
Sumatra        Atjeh                     1           7         34            890         26             5,100        150                17                     2
North Sumatra            2          13        148          4,190          28           26,200        177                21                     7
West Sumatra             2           8          76          1,960         26           12,600        166                19                     4
Riau                     1           5         36          1,020          28            4,200        i17                18                     2
Djambi                   1           6          27            590         22            2,900        107                14                     2
S. Sumatra/Bengkulu    1            11          60         2,130          35           10,500        175                20                     3
Lampong                  1           3         39          1,180         30             7,300        187                20                     2
Sub-Total          9          53         420         11,960           -          68,800          -                -                      22
Average for Region       -          -           -            -            28             -           164                19                    -
Kalimantan     South Kalimantan          1           9         51          1,080          21            6,000        1.8                17                     3
Sulawesi       North Sulawesi            2           4          66          1,570         24           10,600        161                22                     3
South Sulawesi           2          21        182          4,150          23           15 500         85                20                     9
Sub-Total          4          25         248          5,720          -           26,100                            -                     12
Average for Region       -          -           -            -            23             -           105                21
Bali            Bali                     -           8         42           1,220         29            6,400        152                21                      2
TOTAL                   34         177       2,161         54,090                     311,700          -                 -                    105
17 Provinces Average   -            -           -            -            25              -           144                21
TOTAL INDONESIA                        2,560         64,040         25          347,500         136
TOTAL 17 PROVINCES AS % OF TOTAL INDONESIA                      84%            84%                         90%
1/: Maximum number of schools a mobile team can visit each term. (e.g. 2 per week) is 26.  The number of teams
shown in column 9 is based on discussions with Ministry officials to give more flexibility and to take account of difficulty of travel.
Sources:  Ministry of Education and Culture, Education Statistics, 1970;
Daftar Nomor Kode, 1971.



INDONESTA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TRAINING COURSES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE & TEACHING PERSO.N1ML
Location  Duration     Participants                   Tutors              Details of Orientation Course
(Trainees)
I.     Jakarta   1 week       Min.lste  1   'pro.  2 each frorn Directorates    Content and methods 'of pri--
(Annually   sentnti ve;P> v nri,;  of Primary Education and    mary school course, teach-
for 5 yrs.) inspectors of pri-   Teacher Training; curri-    ing demonstration and
mary education and   culum developr.ent and        practice. Description and,
teacher training     textbook writing person-    discussion of methods of
nel from IKIPs, 2 for        training teachers as they
each subject Bahasa          relate to the project. Ad-
3 x 26 provinces=    Indonesia, maths, science,  ministrative, organizational
78 participants     social studies                and financing tasks involved,
and the functions of person-
- Provi  .1i-al, Pr~~r~rnel at the various levels.
nors5r eouirati on L
staff 1   2 96 = 26
TT.              3 weeks      Staffs of mobile     Curriculum development and  Content and methods of pri-
in Iqli; <nd uni-ts and back-up    textbook writing personnel  mary school course, includ-
6th years; teams                  at pKIPs: 1 leader plus 4   ing practice in use of
4 weeks in                        te&chers experienced in      textbooks and aids.
each of                           the local experiment.
other fon-r                                                    Detailed description and
Jakarta   re'.        Bahasa Indonesia                                    discussion of the methods
General pedagogy                                   of training primary school
teachers and the functions
Jogjakartsa           Mathematics                                         in it of the staffs of cen-
tral schools and the mobile
Bandung               Science and                                         teams.                             CD E3
Social Studies _
_ I   ___'-0



Location    Duration        Participants                Tutors               Details of Orientation Course
(Trainees)
I[lIt.  Mobil.e     1 week     District Inspectors   rrovincial inspectors  Content and methods of primary
Team        (once only) (Binkabs) (570) and   of primary education   school course, including practice in
HaSeF-       1 week     School District        and teacher training   use of textbooks and aids, teaching
60 proiect   in 1st,   Inspectors (Bin-         (2);   selected         demonstration and practice.  Detailed
Sp(,s        3rd, 5th  wils) (2560)            members of a mobile    description and discussion of methods
and 6th                           team.                   of training primary school teachers.
year.                                                     Administrative, organizational and
2 vxeeks                                                  financing tasks involved, the f-unctions
in 2nd &                                                  -of personnel at various levels, especial-
)th year                                                  ly their own and those of the staffs
of central schools, headmasters of pri-
mary schools and the mobile teams.
IV.    Mobile       1 week     Selected staff of      Members of mobile        Content and methods of primary school
team        (Annually  central schools         teams                   course, including practice in use of
bases (6n)  for 6 yrs)                                                 textbooks and aids, teaching demonstra-
tion and practice.
Detailed description and discussion
of the methods of training primary
school teachers, and the functions of -
the staffs of central schools and the
mobile team.
V.     Central      3 days     Headmasters of          Binwils                 Description and discussion of the
Schools    (twice      primary schools                                 objectives of the scheme, the methods
during                                                     of training primary school teachers, the
project                                                    administrative, organizational and financ-
period)                                                    ing tasks involved at school diL;t. (Wilajah
le=vel, the fiir(tions of the mobil-P
team, central school and individual
headmasters.                                    ( 
0
N)



INDONrES IA                                                                                            ANN2EX 10
(US$ 0001
YEAR OF 7EOJECT DiLPUMMTATION (Oeeober I - Seotpmbor 30)
Ict                2nd                3rd                4th                 5th                6th                7th                  8ch
73/74              74175              75/76              76j77               77/78              78/79              79/80               80581              Total
A. Cctoiculu    D-oveloo,p-t                  45                 61                  79                 79                 39                  -                  -                  -                   303
B. leatb.ok Or-d-ctio-
?aper                                      -                1799               2541               2534               1822                 358                  -                  -                 9094
Oaodlin8                                   -                  93                131                138                  94                 18                  -                  -                  474
Orloojogs & Distrib-lio.                   -                  -                1287               1813               1839                1300                261                  -                 6500
Total Teatbook P-od.ctio-            -                1892               3959                4525               3755               1676                 261                                   16068
C.  eacher Traini
l. ooolOoeot
Mobile  Onits                        557                                                                                                                                                         543
Motorycls                            711                  -ll
Te.chi.g Aids (C.otral Sc:hools) 1431                     -                  -                  -                  -                                      _                  _                  12,31
Sup-rvitors T-aioi,g                  61                 -                                                -                  -                            -                  -                    61
R-to  Tesohors                        -.                145                  -                  -                  -                   -                  -                  -                   145
Dlda-Cio M.t-iol5                     21                 43                  35                 29                 29                 16                                     _                   173
Sab-Total                          2781                188                 35                  29                 29                 16                  -                  -                 3078
2. Operating Costa                                                                                                          '    r
Mobile Te-,o                          -                 124                 532                281                324                 338                252                 56                 1627
I-specto-s                            -                 144                192                 192                192                192                 192                 48                1152
Croorol School St8ff                  -                  66                 154                176                208                219                 153                 33                 1009
S.b-Tortl                            -                 334                598                 649                724                749                 597                137                3780
3. Traiaing of 1Supervisora
and T3tors
P-ooipeial Inspeetori                 18                 IS                  18                 18                 18                 -         -                            -                    9
District Inspecetoo.                  44                 -                   -                  -                  -                   -                  -                  -                    44
Sehool Distrilt I-spoctoro            -                  90                 171                 92                173                 93                  91                                     7 310
Mobile Tors_                          80                 186                186                232                232                 120                 -                  _                  1036
C_t_11 8ohool Staff                  -                 102                205                 205                255                255                 154                 -                 1176
H-ad-t-er                             _44                                                                         44                                                                             890
Sob-Total                           142                841                580                 547               1123                468                 245                 -                 3946
4. pe=ote Te-chena T-awinin                -                  -                 406                541                541                 541                541                 135                2705
5. Staff of Teaehe-
t0ai0in0 0000o10 (SfG)                 -                   -                  69                 69                 33                 -                   -                  -                   171
Totol Teaoh-r Tr0i0i0g             2923               1363               1688                1835               2450               1774                1383                272               13688
D. P-oj-ot Admloit-eoti.o
*c Evaluation
Rqoip-ct, Ono-itr-,
R100vtion0 of 000i1-0                    350                  -                  -                  -                   -                  -                  -                 -                    350
Trainolog of Su'b-1sot
S10ff 6 Fieol G,id.c-,
Ovaloalioo                                 23                 42                 22                 23                  22                 21                  9                   8                 170
Total P-30,00 Admin. & E-al-atica          373                 42                 22                  23                 22                 21                  9                   8  .              520
E. Tooholoal .000ltoooan
Sp-oicliata                              122                 198                186                 96                 38                            -                            -                  640
Fello..hip.              -                 08                 20                  2                                    -                                                                               0-  -  -  4
Total  AooholoOl 40i0,ta-ce          140                218                 188                 96                 38                                     -                  -                   680
T3TAL A to e                        3481               3576               5936                6558               6304               3471                1653                280              31,259
boO 108,00 Se,                       806                912               1515                1673               1609                886                424                  73                7980
TOTAL PROJ0CT COSTS                 4369               4488               7451                8231               7913               4357                2077                353              39,239






INDONESIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CON'TINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(US$ '000)
Manuscript           Textbook Production                      Teacher Training                     Project
Testing                      Hand -In, rilntin i                                              Administration    Technical                    TOTAL
P__er     _ Distributinz           Equipment          Operating Costs  __ enId Fl,'t-in n    Assistanee _
Local. Foreign      Foreign      Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local Foreign    ILocal Foreign    Local Foreigni  Total
a. Physical Increase           -        -           13%         13%       137          5%        5%         5%      10%          5%    _            _       _       _
(uinforeseen)
b. Price Increase              20%       -          21%          9%       21%         13%                  18%      20%         16%    6% _ _       16%    16% __
Total                    20%       -           34%        22%       34%          18%       16%        23%      30%        21%    -             16%    16%      -
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(without contingencies)      303        _       9,094        5,540    1,430          670      2,410    10520        90        230    290           170    510       17433  13824   31257
CONTINGENCIES                                                                                          t
a, Physical Increase            -         _      1,182        720       186           33       120        526        9          11       -           -       -       1290  1,497      2787
b. Price Increase              60         _                   499       300           87       265       1893       18          37     17           27     81        2603  2,590      5193
Total                    60         -      3,091        1219       486         120       385       2419        27         48      17           27 '  82        3893  4,087    798
TOTAL PROJECT COST 
(including contin-           363         _    12,185         6759      1,910        790      2795      12939       117        278    307           197    591      21326  17911   39237
gencies)
_                               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TlONESIA - THIRD  DUCJATION PROJECT              ANNEa 12
FSTTMATF) SCHEDULE OF DIS9BURS1%NTS (USe$ 'O0O)
%iarterlyv 'i sbhrsement        Accumulated Disbursement        Undish'.rseni
Quarter         I           Amount              g             Amouint            Balarce
1           0.0                             0.0                               1350n
2            0.0            -               0.0                               13500
3            0.2            26              0.2                26              1 3-7)
4            0.2            26              0.)!               52             1348)8
5           13.0          1757             13211             1809              11691
6           10.7          14h16            2L4.1             3255              1021t5
7           0.8            110             24.9              3365             10135
8            0.8           110             25.7              3i475             1002.
9            6.2           832             31.9             14307               919?
10            6.1           329             33,n              5136               836)
.1            1.9           166             3Q.?              530?               R1g8
12            1.?           1 56            )lo.),           .5)t8              8032
13            8.8          1183              9.,2 9)9
1l            8.7          1171             57.9              7822              567R
15            1.1           1!,9            590r)             7971              529
16            1 .1          1b19            60.1              8120 238o
17            8.7          1178             68.8              9298                2
18            8.6          1161             77.1,            10),62
19            1.0           131             78.4             1!0593             ?9n7
20            1.0           131             79-..L           10721!             2775
21            6.Jh          86o             85.8             1158)!             1915
22            6 .           857             92.2             124L10             105?
23            0.9           t 2)?           93.1             12565                935
2h            0.9           124             9)!0             12689               811
25            2.0           271             9".0             12960
26            2.0           27)i            98.0             1 33)4               2(6
27            0.5            66             98.5             13300               200
28            0.5            66             °9 0             1                    B)
29            n.             6             .99.5            13)h32                68
30            0.5            68            100.0             13500



INDONESIA                                                                                                       C       1
STRUCTURE OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
CO,    4ioter of          Mnailroto        Miniater         Ministelr        Mllirsto                  tctiniertff                                                                     tinrer
Montftoes       telfcitoic       Mauofo              a Fline |       Agcltu           Hcf Ohlf Noore                                                                                          of Ediucatran
A1   1A1   1A1   1A1    |X1                            .                                                              D _                                    -        <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 1-  IE
Afteirt~ ~ ~     ~ Mettovrn titinc  Agtcttl     |ict                       Affairs
=          _           _                               Sfzorts~~ore     Geor tlret
Director~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dirrotor  Dirf tor  DirectoroDirector=Educational
Criltrel  Central  Cenorel  General  Cenoral                       Ieoelapnrarrt
I \ I t1 (d;<>rCocoirnitf
|        [                                  l                l                  |   | Sr3+ ctor    t                    l            l            1             i             |                                    i 3~~~~~~~~~~teoc  cto
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eae ra                                                                                                                   otYcotL te-  d  Coe 
W-rld B,  - - 7 103 q l 






INDONESIA                                                 CiHART 2
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
SECONDARY
PRE PRIMARY              PRIMARY                                                                       HIGHER
JUNIOR             SENIOR
TEACHER TRAINING            TEACHER TRAINING
A. PRESENT SYSTEM                                                          1    2
TECHNICAL            TECHNICAL               TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
AGRICULTURAL         AGRICULTURAL
S. PROPOSED SYSTEM                                                      TECHNI CAL
GENERAL   GENERAL                UNIVERSITY
4     5    6      7    8    9    10   11   12           13   14   15         16   17   18            19   20   21   22   23  24
AGEI                                                                                                                  
EP1PRELIMINARY YEAR   ~ )CENTRALIZED EXAMINATIONS                                                                  World Ba3nk-6079(R)






INDONESIA                                                                                                                CHART3
THIlRD EDUCATION PROJECT
OCTOBER I                                                                  IMPLEMENITATION SCHiEDULE
ACURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT.                    193II                                             55412                                                       9212 1919                                                                                  1980
MANUSCRIPT DEVELOPMENT,                    01      0       3      0        N     0        1     0       9      1       I       l      1       I      1       10     02      08     01      2       2       2      023    024    026    02        22     09      2
TESTING AND REFINING                       0                 31.                                               
I. CURRIICULUM DEVELOPMENT                _8AHASA INDONESIA GRADEB            I
AND TEXT WRITING
SOCIAL STUDIES 5 AND N
2. TEXT TESTING                                                ea 12I6 83
MI2 3*25                                                                                   1
2. PREPARATION OF DIDACTICAL             -  12' __                         R    1          
MATERIALS FOR TEACRER                                                    I2M
TRAINING
4. TEXT REFINING                                  IB i21                                                                                                                      B
B BOOK PRODUCTION                                                                                                        L4                                                     6    Is ...3,7
I. TYPESETTING                                                                         ii03SN50
I                                                     -~~~~~ M2S44                W 6
2. PRINTING BIOS                                          LEi2a                         F].N
Li ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MiMN
3. FRINTING                                                    FIIE                                                                                                                  RE2  1,1i
S83                                             S5                           S
4. DISTRIBUTION                                                      81                                333j61R  50A0
TRAINING OF SUPERVISONIS ANS TUJTORS     1 WK
I. PROVINCIAL INSIPECTORN  E]              10 WK                                                  I  WK*                         1 WK-                          1 WISU
2. REGENCY INSPECTORS    m                1 AlEn
a. SCHOOL DISTRICT INOPECTOES  E]1 WEE                                                       2 WKS E]                       I wI El                     2 WKOsE                          I  WKE                        1 WKOJ
4. MOBILE TEAMS  C5~                                     51.2 [2~3 WKS                  62   ~4WKS                    NA[;~ ~4WKS                  ND CE 4RVWKS                     ES  NO    RWKS                M 6(5:~,  W KS
ml                            M2                           M304                            SDE                           SN
S. CENTRAL SCHOOL STAFF  0                                                  1 WK          OSO          Ql1WK            554       QIWK               OSO          Ql1WK              MG        QlovKo0  QWK
S4                              SD
N. PRIMARty SChOCOL HEADMASTERS                                               3 DAYS                                                       3 DAYS
D TEACHER TRAINING                                                                 NND ~~~~ERAS  IDOESI  1002  RAHASA INDONSAGAE3 RHSA INDONESIA GRADE 4  BAHASA0 INDONESIA_GRlADE N    BA1HASA INDONESIA GRADE 
1. TRIAINING OF VON PRIMARY                                                                                      SOCIAL STunIES GRAGE 2        SOCIAL GOUDIES SHiADE 4       SOCIAL STUDI ES GRASE S       SOCIAL STUDIES GRADEG
TEACHERS                                                                                                       MUTEITC  GAE1MTEEATOS IlAOE 2                             MAOTEEMATICS GRADE 3 ANO) 4      MAT71I IEMAT I CT GFRAD(E N  MAIIHE?.ATIC§_GRACE N
2. TRAINING OF REMOTE                                                                                           ___________
PHIMA IY TEACHERS
3. PR ESERVICE PRIMARY
TLACHEII TRIAINING
E TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE[
L.,.nj  B    .BAIIASA INDONESIA nube  dA,, .-    ,
M     MATliIGIATICS     I            ' 
SS     SOCIAL STUDIES I
S     SCIENCES' 
OSA  .SOCIAL STUDIES ATLAS
Fi REPL ACEMIENT
BOOK001 PRODUJCTION FINANCED LINDER ERISTING CANADIAN GRANT
-Id1 BaE..k 7687






\x i .......... \ \\ \ F X '- ---; -w-r.i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................L,  |  D
tE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ........ os                                                                                ...  0  C     
-                                 CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0~~~~~~~  _ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~      
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
3      0                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
D                            ,       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                 ~    ~~~~~~~~~~.                         5  -. 
......... 






INDONESIA                                                                                                  cRr 5
TOTAL SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS, 1970, AND PROJECTIOtNS, 1979
GRADE
la  1    1.2  4.0                                                                                                                                                                      APPARENT
17        9.3   31                                                                                                                                                                     RATIOS 1970
16         14   ,47                                                                                                                                                                         1 91
15         25   j13
14         32     Ilt9
13         42       '141
12                        j324                                                                                                                                                              9.6%
9                               462
4     41                            79                                                                                                                                             19.5%
2~~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~29
7                                                  9371 _
E~~~~~~~~~~~- ----------k
1                                                   ________________________                                   ....~~.... ....-. .- - - - - - -- - -4
1 boo                                 2,040                                  3.W03                                  4,0U                                   5.C0O
No\rwe   Mn.l1r15, ,           -da',on ,,-d Culture and  (flssl ld cds ,naw s.
Note:    RelN,qa-o  cgirric.,u,  ~ooi ed r0t, O )n Iloo senorIddry 400 ition  bhO lk fClut  not~4~ ('AorlUE '                                                                                             1V0,,Vt4.-X






THAILAND                  SOUTH VIETNAM                                                       PHILIPPINES                                   THIRD EDUCATION  PROJECT
.                                             g    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.. Inner Prosince,
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7ii .                  ____Oer ProerrOrs
r.   South      Chlna      Sea                                                                                      l        f    Prosnc,sr B.sndrres
Rood. AIpO, rr.rrsrdre)  i     r,JOL                  i     l   n                                                                                                   II          -I~0rnaToI bourdorres
5-                                                                                                                        '\/                                  -                                                s-l
l'2i              MdALAYSIA                                                      BRUNEI                                                                           0 '                    0      400
,MedorIC                                                                                                                                                                  C0        0 
6                                                                                                        Ce/ebes  Se a
s,pOlge o    0                                                    MALAYS IA   jO
, INGAPORE            .                                        5 ./ c   O-c ea- 
_      8.kb |   G                                                                                                           21                          HALMAHERA
roW  ,Prrlroerok0K  l IMANF\,AN
N    -- O1426
Podongp O. <                                                                                                                                                               6w    uu    o@26
7onE                                                17O,eecr1
J-owbI,I       BANGKA                              .                      _7p_            19
16->                                 SULAWESI                  22  OP
>     FbPlembeng       BETU                                                        1
INNER    PROVINCES        Ben5rroi o                                                    ~d 10                                                                                CERlAUNG  MoRotObsr5  I  o
-    -     -E-                                                                                         20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(2  kos  Orbr CEA          EST IRI?AN
I EAST JAVA                       13           -                                                                                      20
2 CENTRAL JAVA                                                                                                                     MA         Ol   1 1  u_a
3 WEST JAVA                                                                 av(                    
4 JAKARTA                                eublo.g                                                                                                          n a.           Sea
S JOGJAKARTA                                       .         4JAK6LARTe
6 NORTH SUMATRA                                      \-   -     JAVA
7 JAMBI                                                            Senroon    -MADURA
3 RIAU                   QUTER PROV NCE             i'                                       E
9 WEST SUMATRA             14 WEST KALIMANTAN         R0sdrAI )   2      0                            ?o
10 SOUTH SUMATRA           15 EAST KALIMANTAN             -                         1 (2-5. -  - °UM BAA                                                          )
11 LAMPUNG                 i7 CENTRAL KALIMANTAN                                                  23/                           FLORES
12 ATJEH                   19 CENTRAL SULAWESI                                                               2                                  23
13 BENGKULU                20 SOUTH-EAST SULAWESI                                                LOMBOK   243                                                (P 25  ORU.
16 SOUTH KALIMANTAN    22 MALIJKU                                                                IOMBOK                                                      1PO iulAU
18 SOUTH SULAWESI          24 WEST NUSA TENGGARA              /7 c/la   n O e    a                                                                          O
21 NORTH SULAWESI          25 EAST NUSA TENGGARA                                                                     SUMBA
23 BALI                    26 WEST IRIAN                                                                                                                                                           . ... ...
.1  ao l'o  .                    1;ze                      ................                                      xsn-                      155' _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






SOUThI  VIETNAM AHILIPPINES                                                                                      THIRD   EDONESIA
k-, ND                                                                                           THIRD    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDUCATION   PROJECT
-   P- HtJ M     lq7
~~fi+>S ,         o th       (f/,na      Sea                                                                                                 (1   OUXTOmIS;rn  7le,U
M '?X   Av4,ALAY',;,A                                         BRUNEI                                                                          o
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                         )         00      30     4(00 -- 5   
,     ,,,                                                                                               Ce/e hes          Sea                                                                  1
- .  'JMALAYSIA    .
I   S yolfluz    R  , \ Si'GAPORE                                                    15                                     Mrra claCl//e   Ocean
KU  G' X T-L ....... .:UW  J IC-                                                                    iA,  -r               2      ~       1 t4MAHFRA .
7                                                          KA+,  CM AnI lnoo  /r 'i M A N   rN
9      7-0                                        1                                                                                                                  26
V       0            BANGKA                             17                  7u3a:par            19  R-
_  _S  9   d   16                    n V   m    .SUL AlV ES/             22
/  0 hleinbr r g                       2      (1.~~~~~~~7)..\
tIJ1SQAN4E5  ~   7  * 7      BEJlr ELtFLING                                              18 oK7-
iN.Nr:R PROVJIN-CS                           Ioi1*    *.2                                                                                                          A,],-O    CERAM          tS       RA
IEAST JPVA                                                             ~o '®~®                                                                                            CEA                EST 1k/AN
2 CENFRAL JA\A                     -3       1 
3 WFST JAVA
4  AK A2iA                                                                Java             Se a                    M®oooso         MUNA       t       aN  n G  a      Sea
5 JOC-JAKAkTA                                        4\an.'aRSe
6 NOPTH SATRA                                                   J | AVA
7 kJA4IJ                 CIUTEI _PR OvI,ICE5           t..r7g      ati m                Mr1P
9  AESr SUMATRA           14 WEST KALIMANTAN                      2 -9B
10Sc/TH Sk,AIMAO         15 EAST KA[ MAN[AN                       ®A J®1r-2 >     1 (M5AW
1  L AMi iPJNG             17 CENiTRAL  ALIMANTAN                                                            SUM2BAWA           LORES
12 ATiFi!                  19 CENITRAL SULAWESI                                       -               /25
13 bFNGKUllJ               20 SC1U,,-EAST SULAWESI                                                 '         24                                25
16 SOUTH KArL.iANTAN    22 MAtUKU                                                               lOMBOk                                                      ( IPORTUGAL)
18 surH   UlVAVESI        24 WESi NLSA IENGGARA               /n  a',a     Oce a a                                                                     TIMOR
2i NORTHJI SULAWESI        25 EAST .!USA TENGGARA
25 BAlI                    26 WEST IRaN                                                                             SUMBA
__ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ___ _ _ ______ __ _ _ _  _  _o'



