CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 387 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 1, 1973


﻿I
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 387 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 1, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Borrower has requested Canada to assist in the financing of the
cost of the paper required for the production of the textbooks and teachers' guides
included in the Project and Canada has informally agreed to grant through the
Canadian International Development Agency a loan to the Borrower for said
purpose (hereinafter called the CIDA Loan);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis of inter alia the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the Gencral Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Implementation Unit" means the project implementation unit
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿I
4
(b)   "Provincial Sub-unit" means any one of the p.ovincial sub-units of
the Project Implementation Unit.
(c)   "Project Director" means the manager of the Project Implementation
Unit.
(d)   "Project SPG" means any of the primary teacher training schools which
shall be the headquarters of the mobile teams under the Project.
(e)   "Committee   of Eleven"   means   the  Committee of Planning,
Coordination and Supervision of Pilot Projects of Comprehensive Schools
established by Decree No. 8 of 1971, dated January 7, 1971, of the Borrower's
Minister of Education and Culture, as such Decree may be amended from time
to time, and such term shall include any committee or entity to whom all or
part of the functions of the Committee of Eleven referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement shall be transferred.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($13,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and


﻿5
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b)   No bid for a contract for printing and distribution of textbooks or
teachers' guides included in the Project shall be invited before the Association shall
have notified the Borrower that such invitation is justified in view of the progress
made under the Project in manuscript writing and testing, printing and distribution
of textbooks and teachers' guides, and primary teacher training.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding frim time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983, and ending April 15. 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation to the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the budgeted expenditures, estimated to be made for the Project during each
quarter, shall be available not later than the fifteenth day of such quarter.


﻿6
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall establish and thereafter maintain in its Department of Education and Culture
a project implementation unit managed by a qualified and experienced Project
Director, assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers, and including provincial
sub-units and a project evaluation team, all as described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and with duties and responsibilities as specified therein, as such
Schedule shall be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
(b)   Before making an appointment to the position of Project Director,
Assistant Education Planning, Assistant Book Production, Educator/Teacher
Trainer, Finance Officer or Procurement Officer, of the Project Implementation
Unit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the names and qualifications
of the persons considered for appointment tr such position and shall afford the
Association a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying o t the Project,
the Borrower shall employ by the dates and for the periods hereinafter specified,
as modified by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association, the
following specialists acceptable to, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to, the
Borrower and the Association:
(a)   an administrator/planner, by October 1, 1973 for about three years,
to advise the Project Director on the establishment and implementation of
administrative procedures and financial controls applying to the execution of the
Project;
(b)   an educator, by October 1, 1973 for about three years, to advise the
Project Director on the content and phasing of, and the participation of staff in,
the in-service teacher training included in Part B of the Project;
(c)   two specialists, by January 1, 1974 for a combined total of about
six years, to assist in preparing, on the basis of the results of experimental classroom
work, training courses and manuals to be used by the mobile teacher training teams
under the Project; and
(d)   a program evaluator, by July 1, 1974 for about four years, to assist
the Project Director in a continuous assessment of Project progress including such
matters as the effectiveness of the mobile teams and the rates of participation
in the fortnightly training sessions.
Section 3.04. (a) For the purpose of the curriculum dev-lopment program
included in Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall charg,, its Committee of


﻿7
Eleven with: (i) allocating the responsibility for the formulation of primary teaching
programs and methods, and (ii) the approval and subsequent progress review of
the programs of manuscript preparation and of testing of textbooks and teachers'
guides; the Committee of Eleven shall cooperate closely with the Project
Implementation Unit.
(b)   Before charging another committee or entity         with  any of the
before-mentioned functions of the Committee of Eleven, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the reasons for and the details of such transfer of functions
and afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment on such reasons
and details.
Section 3.05. (a) The manuscript of every textbook to be produced under
the Project shall be carefully tested in a representative sample of primary schools
according to a schedule acceptable to the Association.
(b)   Teachers' guides    shall be   prepared, published    and  distributed
simultaneously with the textbooks they cover.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the paper required for the
production of the textbooks and teachers' guides under the Project shall be safely
stored from its arrival in Indonesia until its use for printing.
(b)   The Borrower shall make arrangements acceptable to the Association
for the timely and efficient distribution of the textbooks produced under the
Project to the primary schools.
Section 3.07. Within two years after the date of this Agreement, or such
other period as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, the Borrower shall:
(i) develop a prototype teaching aid kit containing essential tools and materials
to enable primary school teachers to make their own teaching aids; and (ii) furnish
to the Association a report containing its plan for the production and distribution
of such teaching aid kits and afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
comment on such report.
Section 3.08. (a) The training courses for staff of primary teacher training
institutions other than Project SPG's shall be given in accordance with a plan
acceptable to the Association; within six months after the date of this Agreement,
or such other period as the Association shall agree, the Borrower shall furnish
a draft of that plan to the Association for its concurrence.
(b)   After consultation with representative teachers and provincial officials,
the Borrower shall establish and implement an effective scheme acceptable to the


﻿8
Association to ensure the regular attendance by the primary school teachers of
the in-service teacher training courses included in Part B of the Project.
(c)   Within one year after the date of this Agreement, or such other period
as the Association shall agree, the Borrower shall have published the primary teacher
in-service training program included in the Project and the scheme ensuring regular
primary teacher attendance of the courses given under that program.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that in the event of damage to or loss of
paper needed for the production of the textbooks and teachers' guides under the
Project and not so insured, sufficient liquid funds shall be available within a period
of three months after such event, in the currency required, to replace damaged
or lost paper.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
procurement and textbook printing and distribution schedules for the Project
(including the delivery schedules for paper), and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   Without limiting the generality of the preceding paragraphs of this
Section, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementation Unit to prepare and


﻿9
submit to the Association each calendar quarter a report evaluating the progress
of the execution of the Project. The report shall pay particular attention to
curriculum and textbook development, production and distribution of textbooks,
progress of primary teacher training including the effectiveness of the mobile teacher
training teams, and implementation of the scheme referred to in Section 3.08 of
this Agreement ensuring regular primary teacher participation in the in-service
training program included in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Proj'ect, of the Project Implementation Unit and the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution
participating in the Project to carry on its operations and manage its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and educational policies
and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing paragraph, the
Borrower shall ensure: (i) that the motorcycles and the boats (including their
motors) made available under Part B of the Project for the use by school district
inspectors shall be adequately maintained, that those which are no longer serviceable
shall be replaced, and that at all times sufficient funds shall be available for their
operation and maintenance, provided, however, that motorcycles which the
Borrower and the Association shall agree no longer to be required to ensure the
adequate mobility of the school district inspectors using them, need not be so
replaced; and (ii) after completion of the Project, that there shall be available to
each sekolah dasar (primary school) pupil a textbook proven to be relevant and
effective for the study of the Indonesian language, mathematics, social studies and
natural science, and that teachers' guides shall be renewed or supplemented as
required.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that its policy to rationalize its
civil service corps shall not affect the timely recruitment of additional qualified
primary school teachers whenever necessary to meet projected enrollment increases.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Project Implementation Unit and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial ad economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the Project
Implementation Unit and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on-or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The right of the Borrower to withdraw or otherwise use the proceeds
of the CIDA Loan shall have been suspended in whole or in part before
all paper required for the production of the textbooks and teachers' guides
under the Project shall have been procured and paid for by or for the account
of the Borrower.


﻿L
12
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the Project Implementation Unit has been established and the Project
Director and the two assistants referred to in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement
have been appointed, all in accordance with Section 3.02 of and Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and
(b)  the CIDA Loan shall have been duly made by Canada, acting through
the Canadian International Development Agency, under a contractual arrangement
whose execution and delivery on behalf of Canada and the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Implementation Unit has been duly and validly
established; and
(b)  that the contractual arrangement referred to in paragraph (b) of the
preceding Section has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date August 30, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twelve years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif'Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Printing and dis-              5,850,000          90% of total
tribution of Text-                                expenditures
books.
II.   Vehicles and Equip-            2,700,000          100% of foreign
ment                                              expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures ex-
factory
III.  Teacher Training               2,000,000          18% of total
expenditures
IV.  Technical Assistance             510,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
V.   Unallocated                     2,440,000
TOTAL         13,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿15
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿16
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit,
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
III or of local expenditures under Category II shall increase and no proceeds of
the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's ongoing program to improve the
quality of its primary education (grades one through six) given in its sekolah dasar
and consists of the following:
Part A.     Curricula, Textbooks, Teachers' Guides and Teaching Aids
1.   Integration of all curriculum development activities through a national
program and the establishment and maintenance of effective links between those
activities, primary school textbook production and the primary teacher training
programs.
2.    Production and distribution of about 138 million textbooks proven
to be relevant and effective for the study of the Indonesian language, mathematics,
social studies and natural science, which number is now estimated to be sufficient
to provide through 1979 each primary school pupil during class with a textbook
in each of those subjects; and provision of new or improvement of existing book
storage facilities in primary schools.
3.    Production and distribution of effective teachers' guides in adequate
numbers through 1979.
Part B.     Teacher Training
A comprehensive program of training of all primary school teachers in new
classroom techniques and the use of the new textbooks provided under the Project,
and other teaching aids, consisting of instruction of teacher training teams,
instruction and equipment of school district inspectors, training courses for other
administrative personnel, in-service teacher training by means of mobile teacher
training teams, and pre-service teacher training.
The details of this program shall be as agreed upon from time to time between
the Borrower and the Association.


﻿18
Part C.     Fellowships
The provision of aboLIt eight fellowships to qualified officials in the teaching
of mathematics.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    Contracts for the supply of vehicles or equipment shall be subject to
international competitive bidding. Awards for contracts for typesetting and for
printing and distribution shall be limited to local firms.
2.    With respect to any such contract:
(a)   Bidders for contracts for typesetting and for printing and distribution
shall be required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions
-        from  the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿20
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for vehicles or
equipment, customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on locally produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent
hereinafter provided, and bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f.
(port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally
produced goods. The cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be taken into account in the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7
of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Indonesia of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than tn--e specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Category II of the table set out in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by the
Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding
to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic
Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the
smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii)
15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:


﻿21
Stage                        Bids to be Compared                 Preference
I.          All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred        None
Domestic Bids.
II.         (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if         Add Domestic
Preference
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all Foreign       Margin to
Foreign Bids
Bids;
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, if         None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.        If lowest evaluated bid under Stage II is not        None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage I, all
Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation Unit
1.    The Project Implementation Unit shall be responsible for: (a) overall
supervision of the Project; (b) coordination of manuscript development and testing;
(c) textbook production; (d) planning of training courses for the administrators,
supervisors and tutors involved in the primary teacher training programs; (e) training
and assisting the provincial Project sub-unit officers who shall plan the local primary
teacher training schemes; (f) budgeting of all costs for the training programs; and
(g) evaluation of the pedagogical aspects of the training programs. The Project
Director shall be assisted by an Assistant Education Planning, an Assistant Book
Production, two Educator/Teacher Trainers, a Finance Officer and a Procurement
Officer. The six first mentioned officials must be employed on a full-time basis.
The two Educator/Teacher Trainers and the Finance Officer shall be appointed
within three months after the Effective Date, or such longer period as the
Association shall agree. The Project Director shall be responsible to the Director
General of Education.
2.    The provincial Project sub-units shall be responsible for planning and
supervision of teacher training, textbook and teachers' guides distribution and
Project evaluation at the provincial level, including budgeting and accounting for
the costs of such programs. The Ministerial Representative in each province shall
appoint a provincial Project Officer who shall head the Project sub-unit for that
Province. A full-time educational administrator and a finance officer shall comprise
the technical staff of each provincial Project sub-unit. The provincial Project
sub-units' officers shall be appointed by the Ministerial Representative in
consultation with the Project Director within six months after the Effective Date,
or such longer period as the Association shall agree.
3.    A small evaluation team shall be established in the Project Implementation
Unit to provide a continuous assessment of the primary teachers' participation in
the two-weekly meetings, evaluate the effectiveness of the mobile training teams
and the role of the school district inspectors. Working in close cooperation with
other Project officials, the evaluators shall devote the greater part of their time
to field assessments at the district level and below. The team shall submit quarterly
reports to the Director-General of Education.


