Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17233
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN 3346-TU
December 16, 1997
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restrctd distribution and may be u'sed by recipients only in the|
perfonmance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise, be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     :           Turkish Lira (TL)
1989 US$1           =      TL   2,027.0
1990 US$1              -   TL   2,930.1
1991 US$1           =      TL   5,079.9
1992 US$1                 TL   8,564.4
1993 US$1                 TL  14,472.5
1994 US$1                 TL  38,726.0
1995 US$1           =      TL  59,650.0
1996 US$1           =      TL  94,756.0
June 1997 US$1                 TL 143,670.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Svstem
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU         European Union
PICP       Private Investment credit Project
FE         Foreign Exchange
FERIS         Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme
FSAL          Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOT         Goverm ent of Turkey
TSKB          Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (Industrial
Development Bank of Turkey)
SYKB          Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (Industrial Investment
and Credit Bank)
TVB          Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi
YKB         Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi
INTER         Interbank
KORFEZ          Korfezbank
GARANTI           Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
IEDP        Industrial Export Development Project
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FRR        Financial Rate of Return
PCI(s)        Participating Credit Institution(s)
PFI(s)       Participating Financial Institution(s)
PCB(s)        Participating Commercial Bank(s)
TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President                  Johannes Lin
Country Director                Ajay Chhibber
Previous Manager                Franco Batzella
Task Manager                    Gurhan Ozdora



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3346-TU)
Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement I Evaluation of Objectives
B.    Achievement of Objectives
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
D.    Project Sustainability
E.    Bank Performance
F.    Borrower Performance
G.    Assessment of Outcome
H.    Future Operation
I.    Key Lessons Learned
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Project Financing
Table 6: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 7: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
TablelO: Status of Legal Covenants
Part III. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
MAP NO. 24903R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3346-TU)
Preface
This is the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Investnent Credit
(PICP),Turkey, for which Loan 3346-TU in the amount of US$ 200.0 million equivalent was approved on
June 13, 1991 and became effective on November 22, 1991.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, compared with the original closing date of December 31,
1996. Final disbursement under the loan component took place on 07/30/1997. An undisbursed portion of
US $1.8 million is being canceled. Any funds in the Special Account already disbursed and not accounted
for will have to be refunded, and subsequently canceled. This issue is being addressed as of this writing.
The draft ICR was prepared by Gurhan Ozdora, Task Manager, RMT. It was reviewed by Mr.
Tunc Uyanik and Ms. Yvonne Jones. Written contributions were provided by Undersecretariat of
Treasury; Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (SYKB); Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi (TVB); Turkiye Sinai
Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB); Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi (YKB); Interbank (INTER); Korfezbank (KORFEZ);
Garanti Bankasi (GARANTI), and are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR had begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in May 1997. It is
based on material in the project file and data collected after the loan closing date . The Treasury and the
implementing agencies contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views and evaluation reports on
the Project's execution.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3346-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The US $ 200.0 million IBRD loan for The Private Investment Credit Project was
approved in June 1991 and made effective in November 1991. The Bank provided this loan to the
Government of Turkey (GOT) for supporting GOT's program for export expansion and
diversification efforts by providing long-term funds for private investments. The Executing
agencies were seven Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs). The loan was closed on June 30,
1997, 6 months after the planned completion date of December 31, 1996.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were: (i) to assist the borrower in its efforts to increase the
capacity to produce tradable goods and services through activities in which the borrower is
economically efficient, especially export-oriented activities, but excluding agriculture; and to that
end, (ii) to provide financing through PFIs for financially and economically viable private
investments in such activities; (iii) to continue to assist TSKB and SYKB in their efforts to
diversify their business and resources; (iv) to ensure PCBs' continued operation as financially
sound and efficient institutions. The project, building on the success of the Industrial Export
Development Project-IEDP (Ln. 2901-TU) was designed to help finance the expansion of
Turkey's productive capacity needed to sustain its export drive by providing long-term funds,
and improving the credit delivery system that can perform the investment financing on its own in
the future . Technical assistance component of the project was $ 1 million and this was geared to
assist the PFIs in institutional strengthening, with particular focus on improving their project
appraisal and supervision to strengthen their project finance capability.
3.    The project was intended for supporting Turkey's export expansion and diversification
efforts by providing long-term funds for private investments. In doing this, the project would
pursue sustained implementation of the Government's financial reforms at the intermediary level
by ensuring that the participating financial institutions (PFI) continue to comply with prudential
banking regulations and by improving the efficiency of the financial system especially in allocating
investment credit.



- 11 -
Achievement of Objectives
4.    Although not stated explicitly in the legal documents, from the context of the SAR, the
implicit development objectives of the loan can be interpreted as that of facilitating the
implementation of the Government's program of financial sector reforms, which were supported
by the FSAL II. The development objective of this project is therefore measured against the
improvements in the financial sector. To this end the GOT since 1995 has been working on a
number of reforms to meet the international, and in particular EU standards especially in the
following areas; (a) appropriate restrictions to current blanket deposit insurance scheme; (b)
improvement of the prudential regulations on loan provisioning, currency and interest rate risk,
loan concentration and connected lending, and an effective enforcement system; and (c) reduction
of the subsidized investment credit scheme.
5.    As a result of these efforts: (i) consolidation of financial subsidiaries; (ii) application of
inflation accounting; and (iii) regulations against money laundering, were introduced in 1997. In
addition to these changes, Turkish Banking Law is currently under revision and the new draft law
contains many articles related to connected lending, bank ownership and loan provisioning. These
changes, are clear indications of an improvement in the financial sector.
6.    Credit component of the project was to provide financing to private sector investments
and operations in order to support their production capacities, financial structures and market
competitiveness. These objectives were fully achieved. Overall, the Loan of $200 million
financed 58 sub-loans with an average size of $3.4 million. At appraisal, it had been envisaged
that sub-borrowers would contribute $200 million. In the event the sub-borrowers provided $
821 million, with the net result that total investment in sub-projects amounted to $1,019 million,
some 154 % higher than the $400 million envisaged at appraisal. These investments were
generally viable, yielding average FRRs of 40 %. Incremental output resulting from these
investments is estimated at $788 million and incremental exports at $362 million at fuill capacity
utilization.
7.    The objective of assisting PCIs in improving their project appraisal-supervision
capabilities, information systems and operating procedures related to investment lending, was not
realized through this loan because PFIs had decided to finance this component with their own
resources. Although the PCIs did not utilize the technical assistance for improving their operating
procedures, the requirements of the loan agreement relating to project preparation and appraisal
and to the PCI audits, contributed substantially to the institutional improvement of the PCIs and
their portfolio quality.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
8.    Commitments and disbursements of the loan were much below the appraisal estimates
during the 1991-1994 period. Starting with 1993 there was a decrease in the disbursements, and



- iii -
in 1994 commitments came to a virtual standstill where there was an uncommitted balance of
$167 million for the PICP.
9.    As a result of this situation and in response to the Government's request, some
amendments were made in the loan agreement in December 1994. The loan was restructured for
financing of permanent working capital, pre-shipment export finance and leasing. In addition to
these, there was another amendment which provided for single-currency lending in US Dollars as
well as DMs, with an adequate premium over their respective LIBOR rates.
10.   Following this restructuring, there was a significant acceleration in the loan utilization.
Disbursements made by the PCIs was 99.0 % (98.93%) of the total loan amount and cumulative
disbursements amounted to $198.0 million, with the final disbursement made in July 30, 1997.
The 1994 restructuring was followed by an improved investment climate which gradually
developed throughout 1995.
11.  In addition to the improvements in the investment climate, another reason for increased
demand for the Bank funds, was the unavailability of other medium-term sources of finance. Due
to the uncertain macro-economic environment and high rates of inflation, the prospects for the
banking system and foreign creditors to provide medium-and-long term finance to the private
sector were very weak. Given this situation, the availability of stable medium and long-term
finance from the Bank proved to be very attractive to investors.
Project Sustainability
12.   Due to the high public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) since 1990, the GOT has
continued to finance its deficit mainly through the sale of Government securities. The banks
invested heavily in these instruments, which crowd out medium and long-term lending to private
industry. Another constraint for the banks was the unavailability of medium-to-long term funding
resources. Under these conditions, it would be unrealistic to expect commercial banks to provide
MLT credit on a sustained basis as envisaged in the project objectives. However, the success of
the credit component in a narrow sense can be considered as sustainable because loans made in
foreign exchange can be recycled; the PCIs can re-lend the foreign exchange repayments from
their sub-borrowers which exceed their repayment obligations to GOT. The current interest rates
make project lending profitable for the PCIs, by providing protection against capital erosion.
Bank Perfonnance
13.   The Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. Bank's missions
were able to translate the results and build on the successful experience of the earlier Industrial
Export Development Project (IEDP) and to firther the initiatives started under the earlier project
by pursuing sustained implementation of the GOT's banking reforms at the intermediary level by
ensuring that the participating financial institutions (PFI) continue to comply with prudential
regulations and by improving the efficiency of the financial system especially in allocating



-iv -
investment credit. Bank performance during the implementation phase was also satisfactory.
Supervision missions were fielded in regular intervals twice per year and the relationship of the
Bank staff with the Treasury and PFIs' staff was excellent. Treasury and the PPIs also rate the
project implementation as highly satisfactory and maintain that, had the Bank accepted utilization
of the loans in a blend with subsidized credit, the project implementation could have been much
faster.
Borrower Performance
14.   The performance of GOT and the implementing agencies was highly satisfactory in some
aspects, satisfactory in others and deficient in some. The performance of the PCIs in carrying out
the credit operations and their compliance with the financial covenants, agreed under the Project
was satisfactory in general. Treasury also contributed to a smooth operation of the credit line.
Two of the PCIs, Vakifbank (TVB) and Yapi ve Kredi (YKB) had some problems in meeting the
eligibility criteria of the loan agreement in 1993, but later regained their eligibility after complying
with the financial covenants.
Assessment of Outcome and Future Operation
15.   The Project achieved most of its objectives. Its outcome is satisfactory, despite the delays
in implementation caused to a large extent by the economic environment. A plan for the project's
future operation is attached as Annex A
Key Lessons Learned
16.   Several lessons have been learned: (i) entrepreneurs like predictable debt service
obligations and prefer assuming the foreign exchange risk rather than covering it at the cost of
fluctuating relative and high interest rates; (ii) in an economy with a high rate of inflation, sound
economic and financial returns can be obtained if lending activities are sheltered from the effects
of inflation through appropriate interest rate mechanisms; (iii) free-standing permanent working
capital loans with long-term maturities can be vital for the enterprises in an economy where banks
are reluctant to provide medium-to-long term financing, due to macro-economic uncertainty; (iv)
for export-oriented enterprises, borrowing in foreign exchange does not entail the same degree of
FE risk as is the case for non-exporting firms; (v) lending mechanisms should be simple so that
sub-borrowers understand their obligations; (vi) when problems arise between the Bank and the
Borrower, solutions should be sought right after the emergence of the problems; (vii) a credit line
can be highly satisfactory even in an inflationary environment if negative interest rates are avoided
by lending in foreign exchange or indexing sub-loans to foreign currencies; and (viii) sub-project
performance can be improved substantially through close ex-ante and ex-post review and
supervision of the Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3346-TU)
Part L Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.   In the loan agreement, the project objectives were stated as follows: (i) to assist the
borrower in its efforts to increase the capacity to produce tradable goods and services through
activities in which the borrower is economically efficient, especially export-oriented activities, but
excluding agriculture; and to that end; (ii) to provide financing through PFIs for financially and
economically viable private investments in such activities; (iii) to continue to assist TSKB and
SYKB in their efforts to diversify their business and resources; (iv) to ensure PCBs' continued
operation as financially sound and efficient institutions. The project, building on the success of the
Industrial Export Development Project-IEDP (Ln. 2901-TU), was designed to help finance the
expansion of Turkey's productive capacity needed to sustain its export drive by providing long-
term funds, and improving the credit delivery system that can perform the investment financing
on its own in the future. The project aimed to achieve these objectives by channeling the
equivalent of $200 million through Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to finance eligible
private sector investment projects. A technical assistance component of $1 million to be
contributed by the PFIs was geared to assist the PFIs in improving their project finance
techniques, systems and procedures, was not realized through the use of loan funds.
Nevertheless, the requirements of the loan agreement relating to project preparation and appraisal
and to the PCI audits contributed substantially to the institutional development of the PCIs and
their portfolio quality.
2.    The project was intended to support the Bank's strategy for: (i) assisting the GOT to
achieve its "base case" macro-economic framework by focusing on priority sectors; (ii)
strengthening the international competitiveness of the industrial sector by supporting export and
technological development as the critical agenda for the long term; and (iii) developing a stronger
and more diversified financial sector to facilitate the growth of a dynamic, competitive and export-
oriented private industry. In this framework, the project forms an integral part of the Bank's
country and sector assistance strategy and contributed to the attainment of the developments in
the industrial and financial sectors.
3.    In the industrial sector, it aimed to support reforms that had been undertaken or were
planned, by providing the private sector with long-term funds to adjust, by investing in, or
restructuring activities that make economic sense under a reforming environment. The Bank's
involvement was called for to help ensure the required supply response by providing the additional
resources needed as a consequence of the reform program in the industrial sector. In the financial



2
sector, it was designed as a continuation of the sector assistance strategy (as successfully
implemented under the IEDP) and complement the reforms that were undertaken under the
FSAL II, by helping individual financial institutions to develop into efficient intermediaries in an
increasingly competitive enviromnent.
4.    The objective of this loan was not to substitute for the banks' own efforts to mobilize term
resources. Rather, the intention was that the proposed project would directly support the reform
process by providing long-term resources in the transition period between policy changes and
increased financial intermediation by the banking sector, and by strengthening the financial
sector's institutional capacity to carry out prudent term transformation. The project was to
provide long-term funds to help fill the financial gap for private investments needed to help
finance the private investments needed to sustain Turkey's export drive in the 1990s. By
channeling these funds through the private banking system the project aimed to support the
process of strengthening individual financial institutions as a strategic complement to the on-going
program to improve the efficiency of the financial system.
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.    Building on the success of the Industrial Export Development Project (Ln. 2901-TU) the
project aimed to help finance the expansion of Turkey's productive capacity needed to sustain its
export drive by providing long-term funds, and improving the credit delivery system so that it can
perform the investment financing function on its own in the future. Specifically, the project aimed
at; (i) supporting financially and economically viable private investments in areas of Turkey's
comparative advantage, especially export-oriented activities, excluding agriculture; (ii) to continue
to assist TSKB and SYKB in their business and resource diversification efforts to enable them to
grow in an increasingly competitive financial system; and (iii) to support the implementation of the
Government's financial sector reforms at the intermediary level by ensuring that participating
private commercial banks (PCBs) continue to be financially sound and develop into
intermediaries capable of mobilizing and allocating long-term resources more efficiently.
6.    Although not stated explicitly in the legal documents, from the context of the SAR, the
implicit development objectives of the loan can be interpreted as that of facilitating the
implementation of the government's program of financial sector reforms, which were supported
by the FSAL II. Furthermore the rationale behind the 1995 decision to restructure the project
was predicated on the expectation that the Government would make substantial progress in
reducing the scope and size of the subsidized investment credit scheme. The development
objective of this project is therefore measured against these standards. The improvement of the
situation in the aftermath of the financial sector crisis of 1994 was verified by previous missions.
This improvement was highlighted by a reduction in the banking system's short foreign exchange
positions which have been brought in line with the legal ceiling, that is determined as a percentage
of the equity, introduced by the Government in 1995. Furthermore, the independent audit reports
of most of the PFIs/PCBs are unqualified. And, although it is not a legal requirement, all PFIs
have applied IAS 29 (inflation accounting).



3
7.    These developments constitute a genuine improvement of the situation, but are not
deemed sufficient to satisfy the criteria discussed above. The actions that would satisfy the
development objectives are the following; (a) appropriate restrictions to the current blanket
deposit insurance scheme; (b) improvement of the prudential regulations on loan provisioning,
currency and and interest rate risk, loan concentration and connected lending, and an effective
enforcement system; (c) reduction of the subsidized investment credit scheme.
8.    To this end since 1995, the GOT has been planning a number of reforms to meet
international, and in particular EU, standards especially in the following areas: (a) revision and
phased limitation in the deposit insurance coverage scheme; (b) establishment and enhancement of
the legal framework to prevent money laundering operations through the banking system; (c)
consolidation of the financial statements of the banks' subsidiaries (IAS 27 and 28) which would
also increase accuracy of capital adequacy calculations; (d) amendments to auditing regulations to
define the eligibility and operational standards for auditing firms in performing bank audits; (e)
application of key accounting principles, especially those related to the development and
application of the inflation accounting standards (IAS 29) ; (f) revisions to the loan provisioning
methodology; (g) enhancement of the risk-weighted capital adequacy measurement methodology
and standards; and (h) new measures and reforms in the banking law related to loan concentration
and connected lending.
9.    In 1997, GOT, in an effort towards harmonization of the Turkish banking regulations with
EU standards, started to implement some changes in the banking regulations. As a result of these
changes: (i) consolidation of financial subsidiaries; (ii) application of inflation accounting; and
(iii) regulations against money laundering, were introduced. In addition to these, Turkish Banking
Law is being revised and the new draft law contains many articles related to connected lending,
bank ownership and loan provisioning. These changes, are clear indications of an improvement in
the financial sector.
10.   The credit component of the project was to provide financing to private sector
investments and operations in order to support their production capacities, financial structures and
market competitiveness. These objectives were fully achieved. Overall, the Loan of $200 million
financed 58 sub-loans with an average size of $3.4 million. At appraisal, it had been envisaged
that sub-borrowers would contribute $200 million. In reality, the sub-borrowers provided $821
million, with the net result that total investment in sub-projects amounted to $1,019 million, some
154 % higher than the $400 million envisaged at appraisal. These investments were generally
viable, yielding average FRRs of 40 %. Incremental output resulting from these investments is
estimated at $788 million and incremental exports at $362 million, at full capacity utilization.
11.   The objective of assisting PFIs in improving their project appraisal-supervision
capabilities, information systems and operating procedures related to investment lending, was not
realized through this loan because PFIs decided to finance this component with their own
resources. Although the PFIs did not utilize the technical assistance for imnproving their operating
procedures, the requirements of the loan agreement relating to project preparation and appraisal
and to the PFI audits, contributed substantially to the institutional improvement of the PFIs and to
their portfolio quality.



4
12.   Of the 58 projects financed by the loan, 48 were for plant modernisation and/or expansion,
5 financed working capital and 5 were for pre-export financing. Eighty percent of the investments
were made in developed regions while 10% each were in semi-developed and underdeveloped
regions. ERRs and FRRs were calculated for individual sub-projects. The appraisal reports
prepared by the PCIs for individual sub-projects showed ERRs ranging from 17 % to 83% and
FRRs ranging from 22 % to 87 %. A post-evaluation exercise carried out by the PCIs on a
sample of 14 sub-projects revealed that actual ERRs range from 29 % to 44 % and FRRs from
34 % to 46%.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   Commitments and disbursements of the loan were much below the appraisal estimates
during the 1991-1994 period. Overall, PICP implementation proceeded slowly since approval
(June 13,1991). As of May 1993, subloan commitments were totaling only about $27 million, and
disbursements only about $20 million, as compared to appraisal estimates of $80 million. In
addition to this, of the seven banks participating in PICP, only four had submitted subproject
proposals during this period. Of the 9 project proposals that were submitted, 3 did not meet the
eligibility criteria and of the 7 participating banks (PFIs ) only 5 were found in compliance with
the eligibility criteria of PICP. Starting with 1993 there was a decrease in the disbursements, and
in 1994 commitments came to a virtual standstill where there was an uncommitted balance of
$167 million for the PICP. The reasons for this were: (i) weak market demand for investment
credits due to the uncertain macro-economic environment; (ii) The Bank requirement of non-
blending of the Bank credit line with funding under the Government's subsidized credit program.
Since majority of PFIs clients were recipients of incentive certificates entitling them to funding at
interest rates far below the inflation rate, expectations about the possibility using these subsidized
credits significantly decreased the entrepreneurs' interest in using the Bank's credit lines; (iii)
currency pool system whereby the Bank's currency pool was onlent by the Government to the
PFIs and PFIs did not want to onlend in a single currency and take the cross currency risk, while
the sub-borrowers were reluctant to borrow from the currency pool for variety of reasons; and
(iv) availability of funding alternatives such as short-term foreign currency financing with rollover
possibilities
14.   The crisis that emerged early in 1994 drastically limited debtor funding flexibility as
domestic and foreign funding resources suddenly and unexpectedly dried up, with interest rates
rising to historic highs. Banks were forced to pay off large amounts of foreign currency lines
which were not rolled over. Additionally, the shift in deposits from small banks to the biggest
banks induced a cut in the credit exposure of the less liquid banks, without a commensurate rise
in the lending by the major banks. These radically changed conditions in the financial markets
created a situation which lead to a substantial demand for Bank funds.
15.   As a result of this situation and in response to the Government's request, some
amendments were made in the loan agreement in December 1994. The loan was restructured for
financing of permanent working capital, pre-shipment export finance and leasing. In addition to
these, there was another amendment which provided for single-currency lending in US Dollars as
well as DMs, with an adequate premium over their respective LIBOR rates.



5
16.   Following this restructuring, there was a significant acceleration in the loan utilization.
Disbursements made by the PCIs were 99.0 % (98.93%) of the total loan amount and cumulative
disbursements amounted to $198.0 million, with the final disbursement made in July 30, 1997.
The 1994 restructuring was followed by an improved investment climate which gradually
developed throughout 1995. This improvement was due to reactivation of investment decisions
which were postponed because of the economic crisis and also due to new expectations arising
from the Customs union with EU.
17.   In addition to the improvements in the investment climate, another reason for increased
demand for the Bank funds, was the unavailability of other means of medium-term sources of
finance. Due to uncertain macro-economic environment and high rates of inflation the prospects
for the banking system and foreign creditors to provide medium-and-long term finance to the
private sector was very weak. Given this situation, the availability of stable medium and long-
term finance from the Bank proved to be very attractive to investors.
18.   Project implementation was also influenced by the macro-economic Factors. The inflation
rate which was 70 % in 1988 persisted at high levels through the 1990s, averaging over 60 % and
reaching a level of 80% at the end of 1996. The exchange rate also developed at a similar pace.
From TL 1,875 for one US dollar in January 1989, to TL 17,204 in January 1994 and in four
months of 1994 to TL 33,408 and to TL 143,670 at the end of June 1997. In addition to these,
due to debt financing with very high real rates, investments became unattractive. This, combined
with the ineligibility of the projects benefiting from the Government's incentive program slowed
the project implementation.
19.   As a result of this situation and in response to the Government's request, in 1994,
Government and the Bank agreed to restructure the loan to take into account the changed
circumstances and to accelerate the loan disbursement. Accordingly some amendments were made
in the loan agreement in December 1994. The amended Loan agreement, signed on December
29,1994 contained the following changes: (i) the interest rate base for foreign exchange loans for
single-currency loans in US dollars or Deutsch Marks was made more market-oriented and no
longer tied to the World Bank pool rate; (ii) Free-standing permanent working capital loans, and
loans for equipment leasing and pre-export financing were permitted.
D.   Project Sustainability
20.   Due to the high public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) since 1990, the GOT has
continued to finance its deficit mainly through the sale of Government securities. The banks
invested heavily in these instruments, which crowd out medium and long-term lending to private
industry. Another constraint for the banks was the unavailability of medium-to-long term funding
resources. Under these conditions, it would be unrealistic to expect commercial banks to provide
MLT credit on a sustained basis, as envisaged in the project objectives. However, the success of
the credit component in a narrow sense can be considered as sustainable because loans made in
foreign exchange can be recycled; the PCIs can re-lend the foreign exchange repayments from
their sub-borrowers which exceed their repayment obligations to GOT. The current interest rates
make project lending profitable for the PCIs, by providing protection against capital erosion.



6
21.   The credit component of the Project can be rated sustainable. The investments financed
were profitable with FRRs averaging around 40% and the recovery rates were very high. Unlike
the FERIS (Foreign Exchange Rate Insurance Scheme - see para 47) scheme, the PCIs have the
opportunity to re-lend part of the foreign exchange repayments from the sub-borrowers that
exceeds their repayment obligations to GOT. Recycled funds from these repayments will be used
for the same purposes and since the subloans are nominated in foreign exchange, demand for
these funds is expected to continue. Since the interest levels provide protection against capital
erosion and make project lending profitable the project is also sustainable for the PCIs . The
Project is also sustainable from the point of view of the sub-borrowers. They have greatly
benefited from the investments made under the Project by expanding and modernizing their plants,
increased their outputs and capacity utilization rates and have developed a good sense of financial
discipline.
E. Bank Performance
22.   The Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's
missions were able to translate the results and build on the successful experience of the Industrial
Export Development Project (IEDP). Missions were able to further the initiatives started under
the earlier project by pursuing sustained implementation of the Government's banking reforms at
the intermediary level by ensuring that the participating financial institutions (PFI) continue to
comply with prudential regulations, and by improving the efficiency of the financial system,
especially in allocating investment credit. The PFIs involved in the project was selected on the
basis of sound criteria such as financial strength and project financing expertise, in line with OD
8.30 of the Bank's guidelines.
23.   Bank performance during the implementation phase was also satisfactory. Supervision
missions were fielded in regular intervals twice per year and the relationship of the Bank staff with
the Treasury and implementing agencies' staff was excellent. Treasury and the PCIs also rate the
project implementation as highly satisfactory and maintain that, had the Bank accepted utilization
of the loans in a blend with subsidized credit, the project implementation could have been much
faster.
F. Borrower Performance
24.   The performance of Government and the implementing agencies was highly satisfactory in
some aspects, satisfactory in others and deficient in some. The performance of the PCIs in
carrying out the credit operations and their compliance with the financial covenants, agreed under
the Project was satisfactory in general. Treasury also contributed to a smooth operation of the
credit line. Two of the PCIs, Vakifbank (TVB) and Yapi ve Kredi (YKB) in 1993, had some
problems in meeting the eligibility criteria of the loan agreement but later regained their eligibility
after complying with the financial covenants. The major covenants related to the institutional
development and financial strength of the PCIs were met and therefore compliance with the loan
covenants must be rated as satisfactory.



7
G. Assessment of Outcome
25.   The project achieved nearly all of its objectives but project execution took longer than
planned. The delay was caused by the difficult economic environment and problems between the
Bank and the Borrower concerning subsidized credit. A project which had been earlier rated as
unsatisfactory, made a significant turn around due to the successful restructuring and the positive
investment climate. As a result of these and improvements in the financial sector performance, the
project can be rated as satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
26.   A plan for the future operations has been agreed with the GOT and PCIs. It contains the
arrangements describing how the reflow of funds will be used in lending for similar purposes until
all funds have been repaid to the Government as specified in the legal agreements
1. Key Lessons Learned
27.   Several lessons have been learned: (i) entrepreneurs like predictable debt service
obligations and prefer assuming the foreign exchange risk rather than covering it at the cost of
fluctuating relative and high interest rates; (ii) in an economy with a high rate of inflation, sound
economic and financial returns can be obtained if lending activities are sheltered from the effects
of inflation through appropriate interest rate mechanisms; (iii) free-standing permanent working
capital loans with long-term maturities can be vital for the enterprises in an economy where banks
are reluctant to provide medium-to-long term financing, due to macro-economic uncertainty; (iv)
for export-oriented enterprises, borrowing in foreign exchange does not entail the same degree of
FE risk as is the case for non-exporting firms; (v) lending mechanisms should be simple so that
sub-borrowers understand their obligations; (vi) when problems arise between the Bank and the
Borrower, solutions should be sought right after the emergence of the problems; (vii) a credit line
can be highly satisfactory even in an inflationary environment if negative interest rates are avoided
by lending in foreign exchange or indexing of sub-loans to foreign currencies; and (viii) sub-
project performance can be improved substantially through close ex-ante and ex-post review and
supervision of the Bank.



8
PART II: Statistical Tables
Tables:
1.    Summary of Assessments
2.    Related Bank Loans/Credits
3.    Project Timetable
4.    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5.    Project Financing
6.    Economic Costs and Benefits
7.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
8.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
9.    Bank Resources: Missions
10.   Status of Legal Covenants



9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Obiectives  Substantial  Partial Negligible    Not applicable
(4)        (4)   (4)              (4)
Macro Policies                  FlElEl
Sector Policies               i ]E]Z]                     Fl
Financial Objectives        E           I     E           E
Institutional Development   El         E         ]        [I
Physical Objectives        [           El    El              ]
Poverty Reduction           [         L       [I]         El
Gender Issues               L            ]    OI]
Other Social Objectives     E          El    E               ]
Environmental Objectives    E         [       E           E
Public Sector Management       l       El                 L]
Private Sector Development  E[         E       I 
Foreign Exchange earnings    [         El    E            El
B.    Proiect Sustinabilitv         Likely          Unlikely              Uncertain
(4)              (4)              (4)
ED
C.    Bank Performance       Satisfactorv   Satisfactoi     Deicient
(4)            (4)            (4)
Identification          E              [3            E
Preparation Assistance e               [              E
Appraisal               E              [              E
Supervision            [I               E             E



10
Hfighly
D.    Borrower Performance   Satisfactorv   Satisfactory  Deficient
(l)            (V)           (i4)
Preparation             E]             EC            LI]
Implementation          E]              K]            I-]
Covenant Compliance      K]              I          EI]
Highly                                 Highly
E.    Assessment of Outcome  Satisfactorv  Satisfactor  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(4 )               (4)            (4 )        (4 )
K]             I          [II    K]



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title               Purpose             Year of            Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Loan 1754-TU and 1755-TU    To assist financing of      09/04/79    Closed on 12/31/85.
Private Sector Textiles Project   subprojects to contribute to      ICR Issued
the development,
modernization, increase in
productivity and expect
capacity of the private textiles
sector of the country
Loan 1952-TU Labor Intensive  To provide credit to support   03/03/81    Closed on 06/30/86.
Industry Project            the development of Labor                ICR Issued
Intensive Small and Medium
Scale Enterprises
Loan 2714-TU First Financial   To create a more efficient  06/10/86    Closed on 06/30/91.
Sector Adjustment Loan      financial sector by developing          ICR Issued.
a greater variety of financial
instruments which would
contribute to a revival of
private investment
Loan 2901-TU Industrial     To support the efforts for  03/22/86    Closed on 06/30/93.
Export Development Project    expanding industrial export           ICR Issued.
by providing financial support
to private export-oriented
projects' and improving the
institutional framework for
export finance.
Loan 2964-TU Second         To support the development   06/21/88    Closed on 12//31/92.
Financial Sector Adjustment    of a more efficient and deeper      ICR Issued.
Loan                        financial sector which would
mobilize and allocate funds
more efficiently thus
generating a higher level of
investments as well as a
higher rate of return.
Following operations
Guarantee for Development   Bank support and guarantee    1997      Under preparation
Banks (SYKB-TSKB)           to assist the Development
Banks SYKB and TSKB issue
bond for equivalent of $200
million. Funds to be used to
finance industrial sector
investments



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Actual
Identification/Preparation              05/15/89
Appraisal                               06/03/90
Negotiation                             01/12/91
Board Presentation                      06/13/91
Signing                                 06/28/91
Effectiveness                            11/22/91
Project Completion                      06/30/97
Loan Closing                            06/30/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92       FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96       FY97
Appraisal         20,000     80,000    155,000  190,000   200,000   200,000
estimate
-     20,900     26,180   28,340   164,870   198,045
Actual
Actual as % of                   26         17       15        82      99
estimate
Date of final disbursement: July 30, 1997
Table 5: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                  Actual/latest estimates
l US$imillion)                 .      (US$ million)
Item               Local costs   Foreimn costs  Total    Local costs  Foreign costs   Total
1. IBRD                      -         200.0     200.0                       198.0       198.0
2. PFIs                     0.5           0,5       1.0           -              -
3. Sub-borrowers          200.0            -      200.0       821.0              -       821.0
Total                     200.5        200.5      401.0       821.0          198.0     1,019.0



13
Table 6: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs). Specific estimates of the project's ERR were not made at appraisal;
PCIs were required to demonstrate the economic viability of individual projects which had to show ERRs
in excess of 15% (except for projects specifically aimed at environmental amelioration). An analysis of
the ex ante rates of return on investment projects for SYKB, TSKB and TVB which accounts for 69% of
Investments indicated a weighted average ERR from 58 projects of 29%. Ex post evaluation on 8 of
these (which had ex ante ERRs of 34%) resulted in an average ERR of 38%.
Ex Ante ERRs and FERRs for investment Projects in SYKB, TSKB, and TVB (represents 69% of Loan
and 82% of Project investment)
No    Investment    Av. ERR at         Range         Av. FRR at       Range
(US$'000)      Appraisal                      Appraisal
SYKB           12         236,000           36%       .17%/6-83%           40%        220/-83%
TVB            22         468,000           33%        200/o-73%           38%        19%-96%
TSKB           11         189,500           32%        17%-50%             36%        160/6-61%
Total          45         893,500           34%                            38%
Ex Post ERRs and FRRs for Sample Investment Projects in SYKB, TSKB and TVB (represents 36% of
Loans for Investment)
No    Investment      Av. ERR at     Av. ERR        Av. FRR at     Av. FRR
l_________           (US$'000)      Appraisal      ex Post         Appraisal      Ex Post
SYKB         4              51,857           32%            41%            40%            41%
TVB          2              24,325           48%            44%            48%            46%
TSKB         2              10,513           31%            29%            40%            34%
Total       18              86,695           370%           38%            43%            41%
Estimates of Full Time Job Creation (at Sub Project Appraisal)
No.      Disbursement        Investment           Jobs            Cost/Job
(US$'000)         (U$$'000)                           (US$'000)
SYKB               12             40,000           236,000             1,311            180,000
TSKB               11             49,953           189,500               906           209,161
TVB                22             47,918           468,000             1,925           243,116
YKB                 6             29,904            98,500               608            162,006
INTER               4             10,270            27,000               225            120,000
KORFEZ              3             20,000                 .                     .
Total              58            198,045          1,019,000            4,975           204,824



14
Table 7: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned Inputs             Actual
Stage of project cycle  SWS        US$'OOO      SWS        US$'000
Through Appraisal             98.9       262.8        98.9        262.8
Appraisal Board               53.9        142.3       53.9        142.3
Board Effectiveness           N/A          N/A        N/A          N/A
Supervision                  139.6       335.0       139.6        335.0
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month/   No. of   Days  Specialization(1)  ImpL.  Dev.   Type
cycle           Year   Persons   in                         Status  Obj.      of
______             Field                                     Prob.
Through appraisal        06/90       7       -         E,F,AD
Appraisal Board          06/91       1       -            F
Supervision I            06/92       1       -            F            2       3       -
Supervision II           08/93      4        -          C,E,F          3       3       -
Supervision III          06/94      4        -        C,E,F,AD         U       S       -
Supervision IV           06/95      4        -        C,E,F,AD         S       U       -
Supervision V            09/95      2        -          AC,F           S       U       -
Supervision VI           03/96      2        -          AC,F           S       U       -
Supervision VII          06/96      2        1            F            S       U       -
Supervision VIII         10/96      2       20            F            S       U       -
Supervision IX           06/97      2        12           F            S       S       -
1- Key to Specialized staff skills: 2- Key to Performance Ratings: 3- Key to Types of problems
AC= Agricultural credit     1= Minor problems    F= Financial
Spec.                       2= Moderate problems   T= Technical
E = Economist               3= Major problems    M= Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
C = Consultant AD= Advisor



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0
ECS - Private/Financhtl Sectors Devt
ECSPF - Private/Financial Sectors Devt
Form 590 Date: 10/15/1996
Project ID: TR-PE-9036      -PRIVATE INVESTMENT C
Covenant        Status      Original Fulfill   Revised           Description of Covenant                       Comments
Class (s)                       Date         Fulfill Date
Text Reference: LA Section 4.02
01                C        06/28//1991                  Submission of annual audited financial statements.        Complied with.
Text Reference: LA Sec. 4.02(b)
01                C         06/28/1991                   Auditors' certification of compliance with               Received.
eligibility criteria.
Text Reference: LA Sec. 4-c
02                CP       06/28/1991                   Capital adequacy, loan loss provisioning, loan  Substantial compliance.
concentration.
Text Reference: LA Sec. 4-d
02                CP        06/28/1991                   Positive real rate of return on equity                   Substantial compliance.
Text Reference: LA Sec. 3.06
02                 C        06/28/1991                   Debt-service coverage ratio (SYKB and TSKB)              Complied with.
Text Reference: LA Sec.4.e; PA Sec.3.08
02                 C        06/28/1991                   Collection ratio on medium and long-term loan.            Complied with.
Text Reference: PA Sec. 3.05
02                 NYD      06/28/1991                   Debt/Equity ratio                                        Legal agreement amended to replace this
covenant
with minimum 10% capital adequacy ratio for
TSKB
and SYKB.
Status:   C        - Complied with
CD       - Compliance after Delay
NC       - Not Complied with
SOON    - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP       - Complied with Partially
NYD      - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0
ECS - Private/Financial Sectors Devt
ECSPF - Private/Financial Sectors Devt
Form 590 Date: 10/15/1996
Project ID: TR-PE-9036      -PRIVATE INVESTMENT C
Covenant      Status        Original       Revised          Description of Covenant                 Conmnents
Class (s)                 Fulflll Date    Fulflll Date
Text Reference: LA Sec. 4-b
01             CP       06/28/1991                   Unqualaified auditors' opinion.       Partial compliance.
Text Reference: LA Sec. 4.02
02             C                                     Complied with                         Comnplied with.
Status:   C        - Complied with
CD       - Compliance after Delay
NC       - Not Comnplied with
SOON    - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP       - Comp
NYD      - Not Yet Due



Covenant Class
I        Accounts/audit
2         Finacial petfornance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3         Flow and utilization of project funds
4         Countepart funding
5         Management aspects oftbe Project or of its executing agency
6         Environmental covenants
7         Involuntary  tlement
8          digenous people
9         Monitoring, review and reporting
10       Implementation
11       Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12       Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13       Other



18
TURKEY
PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 3346-TU)
Plan for Proiect ODeration after Closin! on June 30 1997
Project Objective
28.   The project objectives as stated in the loan agreement were: (i) to assist the borrower in
its efforts to increase the capacity to produce tradable goods and services through activities in
which the borrower is economically efficient, especially export-oriented activities, but excluding
agriculture; and to that end, (ii) tqprovide financing through PFIs for financially and
economically viable private investments in such activities; (iii) to continue to assist TSKB and
SYKB in their efforts to diversify their business and resources; (iv) to ensure PCBs' continued
operation as financially sound and efficient institutions. The project, building on the success of the
Industrial Export Development Project-IEDP (Ln. 2901-TU) was designed to help finance the
expansion of Turkey's productive capacity needed to sustain its export drive by providing long-
term funds, and improving the credit delivery system that can perform the investment financing
on its own in the future .
29.   The institutional development objectives for the PFIs were to be achieved through the
Technical assistance component of the project, with particular focus on improving their project
appraisal and supervision to improve their project finance capability. The objective of assisting
PCIs in improving their project appraisal-supervision capabilities, information systems and
operating procedures related to investment lending, was not realized through this loan because
PFIs had decided to finance this component with their own resources. Although the PCIs did not
utilize the technical assistance for improving their operational procedures, the requirements of the
loan agreement relating to project preparation and appraisal and to the PCI audits, contributed
substantially to the institutional improvement of the PCIs and their portfolio quality.
30.   The project was also complementary to the efforts to restructure the financial sector in
Turkey assisted by the Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL II, Loan No. 2964-TU)
which became effective in June 1988. The FSAL II contained covenants regarding: (i) the
strengthening of the banking system through the introduction of prudential regulations that
required specified levels of equity and provisions for bad debts, establishment of a mechanism to
restructure insolvent banks and action programs to restructure state-owned banks; and (ii)
improvement in the interest rate structure, including an increase in preferential lending rates to
positive levels in real terms.
31.   It was a sector policy objective specified in FSAL II to bring about positive interest rates
and positive interest rates were to be attained by using the Foreign Exchange Rate Insurance
Scheme (FERIS) mechanism. Under FERIS, the Government converted the proceeds of foreign
loans into TL-denominated loans with a variable rate set at the average of the proceeds of the



19
three-month Treasury bill rate over the preceding three months. Additionally, the option of
lending in foreign exchange through the Bank's pool rate was offered. Previously, the funds
under other Bank projects including IEDP were on-lent in local currency and the foreign
exchange risk was assumed by FERIS. In 1990 the Government decided to abolish FERIS and,
according to an agreement with the Government, the PICP sub-loans were to be denominated in
foreign currency. Under this arrangement, the Government was fo on-lend the Bank funds to the
PFIs on the same term and conditions as the Bank loans plus an on-lending fee. Since there was
no use of the foreign exchange option under the pool rate, Government agreed in 1994 to convert
the pool of currencies to single-currency sub-loans to the PCIs.
32.   These objectives remain valid after the implementation of the project and the full
disbursement of the project funds. Since the PCIs have the opportunity under foreign exchange
lending (unlike FERIS) to roll over the funds obtained for a certain number of years, the reflow of
funds will be used to support lending operations for similar purposes, until all funds have been
repaid to Government, as stated in the Loan Agreement. Equally important, the institutional
development of the PCIs will continue along the lines that were started in this and other projects
supported by the World Bank.
Future Project Operations
33.   The Loan was made to the Government of Turkey for 17 years, including five years of
grace. On-lending maturities to the PCIs depend on the type of investment financed. For sub-
loans in foreign exchange, maturities to sub-borrowers are up to eight years, including three years
of grace for investment projects; and up to eight years with no grace period for financing of
permanent working capital and leasing. The PCIs have thus the opportunity to revolve the part of
the foreign exchange repayments from client that exceeds their repayment obligations to
Govermment.
34.   The legal agreements stipulate that the reflows of funds will be used for similar purposes.
The PCIs confirm that they intend to follow this agreement and make loans to individual sub-
borrowers for similar purposes until all funds have been repaid to Government. It is likely that the
bulk of funds to be reinvested will be used to finance permanent working capital and investment
loans. In this sense this Plan of Operation foresees that the Loan will continue to benefit the
private sector. PCIs intend to supervise the portfolio of sub-loans outstanding in accordance with
the agreed procedures until all funds have been repaid.
35.  Institutional development will remain one of the PCIs' main objectives. They will aim to
further strengthen their financial position and to maintain compliance with the financial covenants
set out in the legal agreements.



20
PCI                 Actual as of           Total Allocation         Allocation in
06l30/1997              06/30/1997             Percentage of
(SS'000)                (USSOOO)                 Total
SYKB                                 40,000,000              40,000,000                     21
TSKB                                49,953,040               49,953,040                     25
TVB                                  47,918,055              47,905,055                     24
YKB                                  29,904,433              29,904,433                     15
INTERBANK                            10,270,000              10,270,000                      5
KORFEZBANK                           20,000,000              20,000,000                     10
GARANTI                                    -0 -                    -0-
TOTAL                               198,045,528             198,045,528                    100
Afsaneh Farzin
P:\!UNITS\ECSPF\ICRTURKDOC
December 16, 1997 6:42 PM



IBRD 24903R
GEORGIA                  Z
BULGARIA .
_DI .N E KIRKASEA I                                                                                                 jASTAMONOU EX zC,-> m _ ; , ,, AN  ARMENIA-
G R E E C E - ,n   E=RC A G  ..  S TA N EU.
(A,.,7d- -SYA                                                                  oi,   &    OAYBU'
(D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lD
o  -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
~~flNAAkALE  -  ANKAFtA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~   \.20 ~~~~~ISLAMIC
TONCE XS  BAUKoSIRm . \.  KISEHIR   t   O=l     REP. OF
|OB,  ,,   ,/  9          >'Jf 'i/   ''                  ~           E                                 <                       'TIRAN
SEA  .  X  39D  <;6f-.@ISFARTA W t{KONYA \ 57NIGDE KA kAAhA /A                                                         i                                              ONTO
Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-                                NESEI 7, UGA  ..K.AYSERt.    , fR RO,k
S    A      t   O EK         A' S        . i~    AFY    '4 ANTALYA                                          . .   '                  ICTj    SIANRB rAK
ARAB REP~ ~ ~ ~~~ARACE
I                      TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EN
|$Q;   iwo   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
-4                        CZf WZ                                    S r ............ ........... . . 1 ,. _ . ... . _ S PROVINCE  CAPITALS
) 't  'K-ON '   ;   '  ' YAhu                                               6!3  NATIONAL CAPITAL
' Sd E                       ReANSif2E SEA ME: RRANMN                                                                                           -  MAJOR ROADS
,IIIR                                                                    A1, -S:Y::R- 2227 ) ( PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Th /ul' rRI'15f f    -fOR  7   }AR       t                ' ",,9                                                                                  -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-ud 0                                                                                                                                ("' 0' '~  :rt,.(j3j
MARCH 1994



