Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 22686
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P6890; IDA-26130)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.2 MILLION (US$18.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR AN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 20, 2002
Human Development 2/AFC13
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA
FCFA 725 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0013 = FCFA I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
AGDSD        Agence de Gestion de la Dimension Sociale du Developpement (Management Agency
for Social Dimension of Development)
AGETUR       Agence d 'Execution des Travaux Urbains (Executing Agency for Urban Works)
APE          Association des Parents Eleves (Parent Student Association)
CLEF         Children's Learning and Equity Foundation Program
DAPS         Direction d Analyse, de Prevision et de Synthese (Policy and Planning Directorate)
DDE          Direction Departementale de l 'Education (Departmental Education Directorate)
DES          Direction de l'Enseignement Superieur (Higher Education Directorate)
DO           Development Objective
DRF          Direction des Ressources Financieres (Directorates for Financial Management)
DRH          Direction des Ressources Humaines (Department of Human Resource Management)
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
FJF          Foyer de Jeunes Filles (Girls' Boarding Facility)
IDB          Islamic Development Bank
LIC           Learning and Innovation Credit
MFE          Ministere des Finances et de l'Economie (Ministry of Finance and Economy)
MENRS        Ministere de l 'Education Nationale et de la Recherche Scientifique
(Ministry of National Education and Scientific Research)
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PERAC        Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
SAL          Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SSA          Sub-Saharan Africa
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VET          Vocational Education and Training
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager    Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader:    Ayite-Fily d'Almeida



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      I1
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   15
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Ihdicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000103                                       Project Name: EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Team Leader: Ayite-Fily D'Alneida                         TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                 L/C/TFNumber: PPFI-P6890;
IDA-26130
Country/Department: BENIN                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education; ES - Secondary Education;
ET - Tertiary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/12/1988                             Effective: 09/08/1994         10/02/1995
Appraisal:  04/2811993                               MTR: 03/08/1997            06/16/1998
Approval:  05/17/1994                              Closing: 02/29/2000          12/30/2001
BorrowerlImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF BENIN/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Kim Jaycox
Countr Manager:      Antoinette Sayeh                          0. Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Alexandre Abrantes                        0. Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:  Ayite-Fily D'Almeida                      Robert Crown
ICR Primary Author:  Michael J. Wilson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=HighWy Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unisatisfactory, HL'=Highly Likely, L--Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Perfornance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time. No
The project was appraised in 1993. There was no fotrmal assessment of quality at e,ttrv.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project supported the implementation of Government's program for educational development and
complemented the support of other donors, particularly USAID and France. The objectives were to: (a)
increase access to primary school, with a specific emphasis on girls' participation both at the primary and
secondary levels, through the construction and rehabilitation of primary classrooms and girls' boarding
facilities; (b) improve the quality and intemal efficiency of primary and secondary education through
in-service training and the provision of books; and (c) strengthen the MENRS's institutioi  capacity for
planning and managing the sector's human and financial resources through technical assistance and
training.
Access and girls' participation
The objective was consistent with the government's priorities and with IDA's lending strategy. The targeted
gross enrollment rate - 59 per cent in 1999 - was modest, representing just under 2 per cent p.a. - less than
the net birth rate. However, the period preceding appraisal had seen relatively slow growth, following an
actual decline in the enrollment ratio, from 61 per cent in 1985 to 51 per cent in 1993. The decision to
identify factors favoring girls' participation, pilot new approaches and develop a national strategy again
matched govemment (para. 2.2 of the Sector Policy Letter) and IDA and other donor priorities.
Quality and Efficiency
The dual objective of promoting in-service training and providing books was sound, leveraging two
significant inputs to the educational process. The rapid growth of the system had led to the recruitment of
many teachers without formal training (the teacher training institutes had been closed for several years after
the government supended any further recruitment to the civil service) and budget constraints on in-service
training had led to a serious teacher training deficit while school principals had never received any formal
training in the management of personnel, instructional resources and facilities. Additionally, many
teachers had been recruited in the previous decade as young revolutionary primary school teachers (eunes
instituteurs revolutionnaires), with a training that was more ideological than pedagogical. The lack of
school books (the ratio was one book per four children per subject at appraisal) had seriously hampered
learning. In retrospect, a book for every child in the key subjects, with enhanced responsibilization of
parents, might have been a better goal since sharing books effectively prevents children studying at home.
Improving Sector Planning and Management
This objective was appropriate per se in that capacity was weak and the Ministry had just been
re-organized as a result of an operational audit (a tranche release condition of SAL II). However, there was
some degree of incompatibility with the implementation requirements of the other development objectives.
Indeed, the SAR (para- 5.2) identified delays in implementation as a risk, due to the parallel need to
"develop staff competencies and change management behaviors". This risk proved real and was
compounded by the fact that the key policy and planning directorate, the Policy & Planning Directorate
(Direction d'Analyse, de Prevision et de Synthese - DAPS) was at the same time an operational service,
responsible for managing five externally financed investment projects (IDA, USAID, ADB, Belgium,
Japan) as well as assuring the key political role of responding to strong social demand by collectivities
(collectivit6s) and by the nation-wide confederation of parent associations (Association des Parents
d'Eleves - APEs) through the provision of classroom, teachers and books. Consequently, less than adequate
attention was given to resolving key policy issues such as the management of contractual teachers and to
- 2 -



field research (factors affecting girls' participation) and studies. Only when the delegation of the
management of construction to the non-profit agencies began to operate smoothly and book procurement
was well under way, the DAPS was able to pursue this objective with some results.
Front loading of civil works and book procurement (with bid evaluation a condition of effectiveness) would
have permitted a faster start and, ultimately, the provision of many more classrooms and books. As it was,
the first books were only available in early 1997 and classrooms end 1998. The undisbursed amounts for
civil works and books, were US$ 1.5 million and US$ 2 million, respectively.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
A. Increase access to primary education: US$ 6.2 million.
B. Improve the quality and efficiency of primary and secondary education: US$ 11 million.
C. Strengthen sector planning and management capacity: US$ 5.3 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
The number of classrooms to be constructed and rehabilitated was revised down from 600 to 400 and then
increased to 490 with the assignment of a second non-profit agency to manage construction activities.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No formal assessment was made at entry. The project was appraised in 1994.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's outcomes are assessed as satisfactory.
Access. The project provided twice the revised target of new primary school places. Primary school
enrollments (608,000 students) were expected to increase from 51 per cent of the age group in 1994 to 59
per cent (845,000 students) or 243,000 new places. In 1995 the target was revised upward to 70 per cent (1
million students or 392,000 new places) in 1999, with girls' enrollments increasing from 36 per cent
(219,000) to 42 per cent (232,000). The results largely exceeded expectations, with gross enrollment
reaching 83 per cent in school year 1999/2000 and almost doubling in numbers (1.2 million), with girls
participation achieving 73 per cent (1,045,000). Original expectations were based in part on the
observation of an actual decline in the gross enrollment rate, from 61 per cent to 51 per cent in the period
1985 to 1992. The net increase in enrollments presented a theoretical requirement of 520,000 places. While
the largest part of this demand has been met by the communities, led by the APEs, the project contributed
positively by producing 23,000 new places (almost double the original target) meeting the needs of 46,000
new students (assuming double sessions). The project also rehabilitated an additional 8,500 existing places,
successfully putting in place maintenance arrangements by the communities, working through the APEs.
However, because of delays in procurement some US$ 1.55 million remnained undisbursed in the civil works
categories - the equivalent of another 9,000 places. The significant increase in girls' enrollment noted above
is likely the result of overall cultural change and, more specifically, the leadership of the APEs at the
community level. The study of factors influencing girls participation was only carried out in the last year of
- 3 -



the project and did not lead to the development of a coherent strategy nor to any specific investments. While
the Girls' Boarding Facility (Foyers de jeunes Filles - FJF) initiative had some positive results, it reached
only 1800 girls countrywide and there remain questions as to the financial feasibility of current plans to
increase the capacity of the FJFs.
Quality and Efficiency. In contrast with the previous decade when little or no in-service training was
carried out, the project did succeed in training at least 13,000 teachers, head teachers, inspectors, and lower
secondary school principals, using training programs developed by consulting finns working with Canadian
universities and teaching materials developed and piloted by USAID. The training program was not
evaluated, so useful feedback for institutionalizing the in-service training function was foregone. In terms
of the provision and distribution of textbooks, the project was successful in: (i) raising the ratio of
textbooks to students per subject, from less than 1:5 in primary school to 1:2, and the ratio for workbooks
to 1:1 per subject; (ii) helping maintain the ratio of 1:2 students for all subjects in lower secondary schools
(although this fell to 1:3 by 2001 due to a rapid increase in lower secondary enrollments); and (iii)
equipping all primary and lower secondary teachers with a teaching guide for each subject. Some US$ 2.0
million remained undisbursed. These savings due to exchange rate fluctuations could have pernitted the
purchase of additional books and teacher guides for the lower secondary schools where quantities proved
inadequate due to rapidly increasing enrollments. Albeit late in the project, specific arrangements were
developed for the rental, conservation and replacement of text books by school book committees and passed
into law (Arrft6 ministeriel No. 2-2002 of the MENRS). However, new proposals for the local publishing
and printing of books raise questions as to technical and economic feasibility while a possible change in
policy requiring parents to buy books presents equity issues.
Sector Planning and Management. In terms of improving sector capacity in planning as well as financial
and human resource management, the performance of the DAPS and the Directorates for Financial
Management (DRF) improved significantly as demonstrated by better management of school construction,
book procurement and timely preparation of the three year program budget. Also noted were signifcant
outputs such as timely school statistics, the analysis of unit costs by the DAPS and better contract
management and accounting by the DRF. The performance of the Department of Human Management
(DRH) remained weak and it failed to develop a comprehensive system for managing contractual teachers.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.     Increasing access to primary education, focusing on girls' participation - US$ 6.2 million
Components. (i) rehabilitation and construction of a) 400 primary school classes (approximately 12,000
new places), the construction of two new girls' boarding facilities (600 boarding places), with financial
participation of beneficiary communities in the financing of maintenance; and b) administrative facilities
for the MENRS; and (ii) identification, piloting and generalization of measures having a positive impact on
girls' participation, together with an evaluation of the technical and financial feasibility of boarding
facilities ("Foyers de Jeunes Filles" - FJF) for high achieving poor girls and of their pedagogical impact,
as well as measures to improve their management and financing.
(i) Rehabilitation and construction. The component is rated satisfactory. The total number of new places
created was 23,000 versus the initially planned 13,000. The delegation of the supervision of construction
to two non-profit agencies, the Executing Agency for Urban Works (AGETUR) and the Management
Agency for Social Dimension of Development (AGDSD) rather than to just one in mid-1995, increased the
number of classrooms to 490 (320 new classrooms; 170 to be rehabilitated) and by late 1999, most
classrooms had been completed. On the basis of its sound performance, in May 2000 AGETUR was
-4 -



commissioned to carry out a second phase of works: 177 classrooms - 129 new and 48 to be rehabilitated.
In the event, an additional 144 new classrooms were built and transferred to the communities by December
2001. However, more new places could have been created if credit effectiveness had not been delayed by a
year, and the contract signing with the two agencies had not suffered significant delays. Some US$ 1.55
million remained undisbursed, the equivalent of 9,150 new places. The initial proposal had been to sign a
direct contract with AGDSD (see first draft of the implementation manual), which is, ironically, the weaker
and less experienced of the two agencies. After AGETUR objected, the work load was split evenly between
the two and increased from 400 to 490 classrooms. However, the initial animosities created between the
two agencies led to protracted negotiations which continued for another year, increasing the overall delay in
start of construction by two years. Other factors contributed to delays: the weakness of the DAPS which
encountered difficulties in managing the two contracts; delays in approval of contracts submitted by the
two agencies; failure by the DRF to subrmit payment requests to IDA on a timely basis, impacting on the
advances which were crucial for the mainly small enterprises involved; and, finally, cement and power
shortages which plagued the entire country between February and June 1998. Both agencies were operating
at their maximum work load. Consequently, until they had completed their assigmnents, no new work could
be initiated despite remaining Credit funds. With regard to conmmunity participation in the financing of
maintenance, both agencies initially adopted the same strategy, to make community contributions a
condition for handing over the keys of the facilities. The MENRS notes that both agencies have kept
photocopies of the receipts for contributions received from the communities which amount to 100 per cent
of expected contributions. However, there has been no systematic analysis of the financial impact on the
communities (whose income varies significantly) nor any clear attempt to publicize and thus encourage
their financial participation. As part of the financial records of the project, the receipts held by the two
agencies should be repatriated to the MENRS. In the case of the MENSR facilities, work was successfully
completed but the tender for office equipment, computers and furniture was not ready until June 2000, long
after the buildings had been completed. In consequence these acquisitions could not be completed with
Credit funds.
A broader issue, raised in the context of the Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit (PERAC)
technical discussions in October 2000, relates to the overall investment program for the sector, deemed as
over ambitious in both financial and imnplementation requirements. Assuming that education for all is the
Government's priority, serious attention has to be paid to better organization of the school construction
program. While the IDA financed program and that of Japan fared relatively well, the MENSR's own
project, to create 1,000 classrooms over five years (i.e. 200 classrooms per year), while initiated in 1996,
had built just 85 classrooms by late 2000, suggesting that both management and financial capacity had
been displaced to the management of extemally financed projects. In any case, the capacity of the DAPS to
plan, program and manage school construction has to be strengthened or preferably delegated more
completely. Finally, while the need to create more places at the secondary level is understandable, given
the 53 per cent pass rate from primary to lower secondary school, further investment at the University of
Benin (UNB) is more questionable, given Government's failure to tackle urgent reforns and prior wasteful
investment, e.g. borrowing at 5 per cent (1999) from the IDB to build boarding facilities.
- 5 -



(ii) Measures to increase girls' participation. This component is rated as partly saffsfactory. The
planned number of lower secondary boarding places (600) was constructed, albeit with a two year delay in
the case of one of the two facilities, and appear to be linked to improvements in the academic achievement
of participants. However, the study designed to identify factors favoring girls schooling, with a view to
piloting promising approaches and eventually developing a national strategy for girls participation, was
only carried out in the last year of the project. Girls' enrollments did increase significantly overall (from 36
to 70 per cent) during the project period but this appears to be the result of changing attitudes about the
value of girls' schooling and to grass roots efforts by the APEs. At project start, girls' participation in
primary school was 36 per cent compared to the average 45 per cent for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).
Factors accounting for this lower participation rate included overall schooling costs to parents, traditions
which favored girls as domestic or agricultural help until marriage and a reluctance to invest in girls'
education. At the secondary level, the number of qualified girls who might have attended was limited by the
distant, usually urban location of secondary schools which obliged girls to lodge with relatives or family
friends or stay in boarding facilities lacking adequate supervision. Many parents were reluctant to accept
the moral and social risks that such arrangements created. Two measures were proposed:
(a) Primary education - a socio-cultural study and related pilot programs. Implementation of the study
encountered major delays, with contract signature with a consulting firm in October 2000. It did not lead to
the development of a strategy or new policies nor were new pilot programs launched as originally planned.
However, the MENRS notes the results were discussed extensively with the APEs and NGOs which took
them into account in the case of schools they operated. Since these discussions transpired after the closing
date, it is unclear as to whether they have been documented or whether any pilot programs have been
financed under the medium term expenditure program (2001-2003). No reference to such programs occurs
in the 2001 budget.
(b) Lower secondary education - "Foyers de Jeunes Filies"(FJF). This component comprised the
construction and equipment (600 places) of lower secondary boarding facilities for girls. The program was
already underway in five centers (1,500 places) but there had been no attempt to analyze the costs,
effectiveness and operating conditions of the program. At appraisal, IDA reluctantly agreed to finance an
extension of the program on the condition that an assessment, financed by the Credit, would be carried out.
The program's goal was to improve the chances of girls graduating from lower secondary school by
affording them moral and social protection, combined with an improved leaming environment. The hope
was that, after graduating, they would work in their local administrative area (departement), mainly as
teachers or health workers, providing a model for other girls. In each primary school in the concemed
"departement", girls were selected on the basis of their perfomance in the primary school certificate
examination (Certificat des Etudes Primaires) and with regard to family income. The two IDA-financed
FJFs were constructed and equipped, albeit with three years' delay in the case of the center at Naitintingou
due to failure by AGDSD to follow IDA procedures. Some positive findings have been reported (MENRS
technical note of February 2002). Eighty per cent of girls in the FJF program passed the lower secondary
certificate examination, compared with an overall pass rate of 53 per cent. The Note also points to the
continuing success of FJF girls at the upper secondary level, noting a tendency for the FJF to be considered
more as quality secondary schools rather than just boarding facilities. Unfortunately, no reliable
information on the cost/effectiveness of the FJFs is available because the MENRS failed to carry out the
pedagogical, economic and operational assessments of the FJF program in timely fashion and according to
agreed specifications. Finally, five years into the project, local consultants carried out a study (US$
43,000), reported in the MENRS' technical note of February 2002. The consultants recommend the
generalization of the FJFs, with greater involvement of local communities and the State in management.
This new approach would result in the FJF's operating rather like a girls' boarding school (Iyc&e as the
Technical Note remarks) rather than a strictly boarding facility. In general, IDA has not supported
- 6 -



boarding schools in Africa, given the high investment and recurrent costs. The consultants made no
estimate of the recurrent costs stemming from their proposals. Despite this, the MENRS appears to be
considering increasing the capacity of the existing FJFs - an approach which raises equity considerations
with regard to high performing, low income girls in other departements of the country. Given the relatively
small number of girls who would be reached and the likely significant investment and operating costs, the
MENRS should give priority to examining the costs and benefits of the currently evolving FJF progam in
the context of the preparation of the 2003 budget program. One clear alternative would be to transform
existing and planned secondary schools into all girls schools, garnering the benefits recognized by research,
without incurring the high costs of boarding. In the event that the program cannot be sustained, the MENRS
risks having facilities on its hands which are not easily adapted to other purposes.
B.     Improving Quality and Efficiency - US$ 11.0 million
This component is rated as satisfactory on the basis of the successful implementation of the in-service
training program after a decade of neglect of this important function. Training Program. In October
2000, the Higher Education Directorate (DES) reported that 13,500 teachers had been trained for the new
primary programs and that a further 4,500 were to be trained. Additionally, primary and lower secondary
school principals, inspectors and pedagogical counselors were trained. Training began in the summer 1997,
on the basis of training (formation en cascade) - inspectors, principals and counselors, once trained, would
in turn train their colleagues. However, the MTR (June 1998) found that the implementation of the program
- bringing large groups of staff together in a single location - was not effective and suggested that a more
localized plan, delivered at the school level with the support of the pedagogical counselors, would be more
flexible and better adapted to working conditions (and, no doubt, less expensive). By November 1998, IDA
reported that the new approach was being implemented, with primary school principals under training
countywide. Later, in February 1999, the first workshop for secondary principals took place. Training does
not seem to have had any short term impact on intemal efficiency. In March 2000, IDA noted that the
overall rate of repetition had remained high, 25 per cent at the primary level and 22 per cent at the lower
secondary. However, repetition and dropping out of school are influenced by other factors such as family
situation and access to books and materials, as well as by teachers. IDA recommended that training give
more attention to the remedial instruction of failing students. In retrospect, the in-service training program
would have benefited from the inputs of a teacher training specialist experienced in evaluation and able to
advice on its institutionalization. Provision and distribution of textbooks. This component is rated
satisfactory. The component included: (i) the provision and distribution of French and mathematics books
together with work books (cahiers d'activities) for the six primary grades, together with French, French
grammar and math books for the four lower secondary grades; (ii) training for the staff of the pedagogical
institute in the pedagogical and technical evaluation of school books, including field missions (Burkina,
Madagascar) to study national book programs; (iii) the development of operational guidelines concerning
book rental, conservation and the renewal of stocks. The MENRS' overall textbook initiative got off to a
good start with procurement of 494,000 books for grades CI and C2, financed by USAID, with delivery to
the schools by school year 1995/96 prior to IDA credit effectiveness. In terms of the IDA credit, while the
operational guidelines for book distribution, manageent and renewal were drafted and adopted (a condition
of effectiveness) by mid-1995, bids for the first consignment of books (for Grades 3 and 4) were not
evaluated until just before Credit Effectiveness (October 1995 - one year later than anticipated). After this
slow start, implementation went smoothly. Some 1,330,000 books and teacher guides were procured versus
an originally targeted 750,000. Most importantly, the ratio of textbooks to primary students per subject
was raised from less than 1:4 to 1:2 and the ratio for workbooks to 1: 1 per subject while the ratio of 1:2 in
all subjects was maintained in lower secondary school (although this had fallen back to 1:3 by 2000/2001
due to increased enrollments). Finallly, all primary and lower secondary teachers received a teaching guide
for every subject. However, measures designed to ensure the sustainability of the overall program were
- 7 -



implemented late in the project or after the closing date. AJthough workshops were held in 1999 to sensitize
principals, teachers, the APEs and students to the issues of book maintenance and renewal, the ministerial
decree codifying the policies and organization of the committees charged with managing the book program
at the local level was not signed until 2001, with full implementation scheduled only in the 2002/03 school
year. Also, staff of the school book division did not receive their required training in the technical and
pedagogical evaluation of books until summer 2001. Unfortunately the project closed before senior staff of
the MENRS could visit Burkina Faso and Madagascar to study those countries' homegrown book
programs. Doubts remain about the future of the program, a technical note of the MENRS (February 2002)
proposes a new scheme for school books. Its key features would be the production of manuscripts for new
books by local authors, with publishing by local publishing houses (despite their identified weakness) and
local printing and distribution. Royalties would be paid by the publishers to the MENRS. The motivation is
clear: less dependence on foreign publishers whose off-the-shelf products often do not match the local
curricula. IDA gave early support to this approach, indicating that it would help "develop a system of
design, production and distribution which would be based on national capacity, taking into account local
conditions". However, local condtions include high duties on ink, paper and other inputs (as opposed to
duty free imported books), the lack of experienced publishers, the paucity of points of sale and, above all,
the weak management capacity of the MENRS. To achieve book "independence", the technical note
envisages parents paying for books, a clear reversal of the current policy of renting books at the low price
of FCFA 250 per year p.a. Given the failure of the in-house book production scheme included in IDA's
Second Education Project, a careful evaluation of the technical and financial implications of the new
proposal is indicated.
C. Sector Planning and Management - US$ 5.3 million
The goal was to strengthen the capacity of the MENRS and its regional offices (which had just been
re-organized after an operational audit - condition of SAL II) to plan and manage resources efficiently and
to improve coordination, accountability and quality control. This ambitious work program was organized
under two components: planning and programning, to be implemnented by the DAPS, and financial and
human resource management, the responsibilities, respectively, of the Direction des Ressources
Financieres (DRF) and the Direction des Ressources Humaines (DRI).
(i) Planning and Programming. This component is rated as satisfactory because the DAPS, despite a
very steep learning curve, finally improved its performance. The goal was to strengthen the capacity of
DAPS' staff at both the central and regional levels, with special attention to education planning, school
statistics, and the school construction service, all three key to the implementation of the IDA project which
the DAPS director managed. Additionally, key economic and sector work was to be carried out, with the
assistance of consultants: development of a sector strategy and related investment; an operational audit of
the University of Benin, with a view to identifying measures for its reform; an assessment of vocational
and technical education and a related study of the labor market, preparing for a future investment project
At first, the DAPS floundered, IDA remarking on its failures in the areas of planning, the monitoring and
evaluation of key programs and in the coordination of the different service responsible for implementing the
IDA project. However, a change in the leadership of the MENRS brought significant improvements, notably
the increased delegation of school construction to AGETUR and AGDSD, permitting the DAPS to focus on
its core activities and by September 1998, IDA changed the DO rating from "unsatisfactory" to
"satisfactory", four years into the project. Subsequently, performance improved in several key areas: the
development of a sector strategy and the simulation of alternatives development scenarios, the development
of unit costs for all education programs, the timeliness and quality of school statistics, the development of a
school map, and significantly improved consultation with the APEs and communities. Specific studies. The
operational audit of the University of Benin was completed, discussed with faculty and students and its key
- 8 -



recommendations adopted by the Council of Ministers. The audit, conducted by an experienced university
president and a professor of economics, provided an in-depth diagnosis of the university's problems and
made sound recommendations as to reform measures. Unfortunately, the two main problems - an
admissions policy which offers automatic admission to holders of the baccalaureat and generous social
benefits - remain unsolved. University enrollments continue to grow rapidly out of control, doubling to
20,000 in the project period, leading to a rapid decrease in non-salary resources and further decline in the
quality of instruction. The Government's response, largely conditioned by fear of the student unions'
growing political power, has been weak. In 2000, it borrowed at 5 per cent to meet students' demands for
additional housing and in 2001 created a second university at Parakou and two new university centers at
Lokassa and Porto Novo. It does not appear that the economic feasibility of these decisions was given any
study by the new Ministry of Higher Education. A study leading to a strategy and development plan for
higher education was included in the 2001 program budget. The VET and labor market studies were
completed on schedule and contributed to the preparation of the 2000 LIC which pilots a new fund in
support of job creation in the informal sector.
(ii)  Financial and Human Resource Management. This component is rated partially satisfactory,
mainly on the basis of the performance of the DRF. The goal was to strengthen the capacity of the DRF in
budget preparation and management and assist the DRH in the development and application of new
procedures in personnel management. In terns of better deployment and utilization of teaching and
administrative staff, the Credit also financed feasibility studies with regard to the introduction of double
shifts and multi-grade teaching in Benin's schools. In terms of the DRF, the main achievements were the
recruitment and training of a strong budget team, increasing the MENRS' readiness to participate in the
budget refrom process (2001); the timely preparation of program budgets; the transition from a manual
accounting system to financial management information system; and improved contract management which
contributed significantly to budget execution which improved from 38 per cent (1996) to 70 per cent in
2001. Additionally, regional staff were trained in budget management, preparing for the delegation of
budgets to the regional level for personnel and school construction and for the management of locally
collected funds for school maintenance and book rental. Since the Ministry of Finance did not delegate
funds to the regions until 2001, there is as yet little feedback on this aspect. With regard to the DRH, the
key challenge was to harmonize the procedures for the recruitment, management and remuneration of
contrtual teachers, paving the way for a professional corps of contract teachers. A credit condition was
that Benin would develop a new system for managing the contractual work force by March 31st, 1997,
agreeable to IDA. Like many countries in the sub region, Benin had opted for low cost non-civil service
teachers as a way to responding to increasing primary enrollments. However, failure to develop policies
relative to terms and conditions of employment had resulted in chaos. Some 2,700 contractual teachers
(contactuels) were recruited locally for school year 1998/99 by APEs, communities and NGOs. In general
their level of education (baccalaureate holders) was an improvement over that of civil service teachers (
BEPC plus two years of training). However, recruited under widely differing procedures and financial
conditions, the contractual teachers increasingly organized, went on strike over differences in treatment and
pay. In the resulting crisis, the civil service, education and finance ministries blamed each other as they
struggled to respond to calls from the APEs. Many communities, unable to meet their commitments,
reneged on their agreements with the contract teachers and replaced them with local youth, often with only
the primary certificate, but at half the cost (FCFA 16,000 per month) of the average contractual salary.
Quality inevitably went down. In November 1998, IDA wrote to the MENRS, stressing again the urgent
need to hold a national consultation (concertation nationale) on the issues, with a view to developing a
coherent strategy and policies. IDA further offered to finance a seminar with participation of other
countries which had opted for contractual teachers. It also asked for a technical note covering the numbers
recruited, their levels of training and the financial arrangements involved. The Government, recognizing the
dangers, moved to de-accelerate the recruitment process which fell off to just 500 for 2000/01. Since then
-9-



the recruitment of contractual teachers has been abandoned. While there seems to have been better
coordination between the MENRS, the MEF and and the APEs, the IDA mission of October 2000
reiterated the urgency of developing a management system as the first step toward the creation of a
professional force of contractual teachers (corps professionnel de contractuels). The DRH did make some
progress in developing a computer-based personnel file for MENRS staff, compatible with the government
payroll and civil service records, potentially an important management tool. It also developed a personnel
management manual with French and USAID assistance, deemed a useful reference guide by IDA. The
studies on double shifts and on multigrade teaching were never implemented. Since double shift schools
are now common in Benin, the assumption is that the MENRS found no need for a study and was able to
implement a pragmatic approach. In terms of the study of multi-grade teaching, the suggestion was that
the MENRS should study the Niger experience before introducing the approach. A mission to Niger was
planned for May 2001 but does not appear to have taken place.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
The DAPS and the DRF benefited most from the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation of the project was undoubtedly complicated by the high social demand for education which
found expression in the anarchic creation of schools and recruitment of teachers by the collectivities
(collectivites) and their APEs. The APEs had become a powerful, grassroots political force and the
MENRS was under pressure to complement community resources as best it could. The estimation of
classroom places, books and materials evolved so rapidly that the quantities specified in contracts had to be
revised or new tenders launched. Also, strikes by the contract teachers in these community schools and
student union action at the universities constantly forced the MENRS to operate in emergency mode, with
its attention focused on trouble shooting rather than reasoned management of its affairs.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Budget allocation. Sector allocations were seen as adequate at project end and counterpart fimds were
generally allocated on time. On the other hand, delegation of funds by the MENRS directly to its
decentralized offices (Directions Departementales de l'Education - DDEs), agreed under the 1997 Loi des
Finances was not implemented until 2000, probably delaying the benefits of decentralization envisaged by
the budget reform process.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delays in contract signing and in submitting disbursement requests to IDA hampered implementation,
notably with regard to timely payment of advances to the small enterprises managed by AGETUR and
AGDSD. The situation improved significantly in 1998. The Ministry could have moved earlier to integrate
the major technical assistance program financed by USAID into its own program and services.
Consequently, opportunities for the on-the-job training of MENRS staff were lost and overlap in activities
resulted. This problem was not resolved until 2000.
-10-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Estimation of project costs was reasonable and IDA financing was adequate. The undisbursed amounts are
attributable to the delays noted under point 4 above. The overall contribution of communities was not
adequately accounted for. However, on the basis of the expenditure patterns documented in the Education
Economic Accounts (Comptes Economiques de l'Education - 1996). the contribution was significant,
exceeding the already ambitious goal of 9.8 per cent of project costs), given the impact of the January 1994
devaluation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Given the adequate budget allocations in the period 1999-2002, the outlook for financial sustainability
appears good, provided the record of overall sound macroeconomic management is maintained. There are,
however, factors which, if not carefully managed, could result in imbalances in budget allocations within
the sector, hampering the development of basic education (primary and lower secondary), the govenunent's
priority. These include: failure to establish an adequate system for managing contract teachers which could
lead to an unsustainable wage bill; over reliance on the financial effort of the APEs communities and
collectivities to meet expenditures for teacher salaries, construction and maintenance of schools which
could create a financing gap (in the previous decade, when the main burden of financing fell on the
communities, that gap grew to almost 70 per cent of recurrent expenditure. (Source: SAR); and, finally,
uncontrolled admission to the universities and failure to reduce social costs which could distort budget
allocations within the sector. (This latter issue was clearly identified at appraisal. The SAR notes that the
percentage of the sector budget allocated to higher education was already at 29 per cent in the late 80s
versus an average of 18 per cent for SSA.) In terms of sustaining quality, the current per student textbook
ratios (1:2) could decline, if efficiency in the provision and renewal of school books is not maintained, as
opposed to reaching the desirable norm of one book per subject per child, with negative consequences on
the quality of instruction. Similarly, an effort must be made to institutionalize the in-service training
program, with continued involvement of school principals, inspectors and pedagogical counselors at the
local level, in order to provide upgrading every year to at least 20 per cent of the teaching force.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N.A.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The operation was consistent with government and IDA strategy, focusing on access, quality and efficiency
in primary education while strenghtening planning and management capacity. However, as late as 2001, the
interim Country Assistance Strategy identifies as continuing constraints Benin's low absorptive capacity
and weak implementation record, both characteristic of the social sector ministries and reflected in
"widespread dissatisfaction with their services". In the 'light of these continuing constraints, the MENRS
institutional capacity was overestimated at appraisal.| To entrust a complex, multifaceted project to a
ministry which had just been re-organized (1993-94) and still lacked qualified staff at the director level and
in many technical posts was high risk, particularly given the ongoing portfolio of projects. It is not
surprising that the two most successful components, the construction of classrooms and the provision of
books, were closely aligned with the MENRS highest political priority, responding to the strong social
demand for education which forced the ministry to operate in crisis mode. In such a context, it is not
surprising that the ministry was less enthusiastic about less "productive" activities such as studies and pilot
- 11 -



programs or even training which, because they required inputs from ministry staff (unlike the other ongoing
technical assistance activities) would necessarily divert human resources from the ministry's priorities. The
appraisal team (which included an institutional development specialist) recognized the risk that
implementation might be delayed because it was "in parallel with the development of staff competence and
changes in management behavior" and proposed several mitigatory measures - matching the right people
with the right jobs, providing expertise and skill transfer to MENRS staff by technical assistance, "constant
monitoring and evaluation"; and finally the management of classroom rehabilitation and reconstruction by
non-governmental agencies. Certainly, the last measure proved effective, once initial difficulties in timely
payment of advances to the small construction enterprises was resolved but the other measures were less
successful. Managing the technical assistance program itself became a challenge and skill transfer to
MENRS staff was limited. Finally, the DAPS was too busy with operational matters to do much monitoring
until the procurement burden was reduced in 1998.
7.2 Supervision:
The frequency and duration of supervision missions (Annex 4) were generally adequate. However,
appropriate technical skills were not always available. The girls education component would have benefited
from sustained specialist support, to provide operational guidance to the conduct of the study, the piloting
of promising measures and to their evaluation (including the FJFs). Additional missions by a school book
specialist could have facilitated an earlier launching of the campaigns aimed at educating teachers, students
and parents about the care of books and the earlier definition and application of the policies for rental,
conservation and renewal. Finally, involvement of an in-service training specialsist would have helped that
program get off to a quicker start. It took two years for the MENRS approach to move from training of
large groups to a more tailored, localized and efficient approach. In general, however, advice was sensible
and timely. Missions identified the key issues and pushed for their resolution, for example, the need for
greater delegation of responsibilities for construction to AGETUR and A GDSD; the early identification of
the need to develop a coherent strategy for the recruitment and remuneration of contractual teachers
(measure agreed at appraisal); warning government of over reliance on community financing; and arguing
for early attention to financial management procedures favoring decentralization. The missions also pushed
hard throughout the project to advance the two studies relative to girls' education and agreed to IDA
financing of the national seminars (ourn6es de reflexion) in 1998 and 2000, but to no avail. Finally, the
decision to assign task team leadership to a staff member in the Resident Mission was beneficial, leading to
a friendly dialogue with the minister and senior officials which helped keep the project on track. This
dialogue also facilitated IDA discussions with MENRS on risks and prevention measures relative to
HIV/AIDS. By late 2000, the key ministry departments were sensitized to these issues, training materials
had been developed and fruitful discussions on HIV/AIDS prevention with the president of the national
association of APEs, an AIDS "champion", were underway.
7.3 Overall Bankperformnance:
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower carried out the operational audit of the MENRS (tranche condition of SAL II) and prepared
an action plan by 1995. It created the new directorates for financial management (DRF) and for human
resource management (DRI) and moved to staff six regional offices (DDEs) with a view to their managing
the recruitment of teachers and school construction in collaboration with the local "collectivites" and APEs.
It also moved to re-deploy teachers assigned to administrative functions back to the classroom. Preparation
of the project was facilitated by a PPF of US$ 380,000. As part of preparation, the MENRS prepared a
Sector Policy Letter, an implementation manual, and terns of reference for key consultants.
- 12 -



7.S Government implementation performance:
Although the conditions for effectiveness were straightforward and the original date, September 3, 1994
could have easily been respected, the Credit did not become effective until October 1995. While the early
PSRs are quiet on the matter, that of June 1997 is frank in attributing the delay to the "lack of commitment,
interest, transparency and support" by the minister and his director of cabinet with regard to the project
coordination unit. Further, the minister's office was seen as directy hindering the meeting of conditions for
effectiveness. With the nomination of a new minister in April 1996, there was immediate progress.
Government maintained its commitment to the sector, allocating sufficient resources and, after some initial
delays, paying counterpart funds on time. This new commitment contrasts with the situation prevailing in
the decade preceding appraisal when the government abrogated its financial responsibility, leaving
communities to finance schools, albeit leading to a shortfall of about 70 per cent which led to a signifcant
drop in enrolments and low quality of instruction.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The learning curve for the DAPS was steep and complicated by its role as troubleshooter on problems
which ranged from helping resolve teacher strikes to making sure that the logistics and means were in place
for schools to open on schedule. As the directorate responsible for managing the resources of six externally
financed investment programs, the DAPS came under tremendous pressure to respond to the high social
demand for primary education by providing classrooms, books and materials (the initially targeted gross
enrollment rate of 59 per cent for 1998/99 was revised up to 70 per cent and 83 per cent was anticipated
for 2001/2002). The result was that the DAPS was forced into a role of crisis management, significantly
hampering its ability to plan. FinaUy, the USAID (primary curriculum, in-service training and related
studies) and the French technical assistance programs (planning, budgeting, the school map) created
difficult problems of coordination since they operated as independent entities under their own management
rather than integrated into the ministry services. The DAPS also had difficulties in communicating with and
coordinating the other ministry directorates involved in project implementation. At the MT, it was agreed
that a "comite de pilotage" would be established to oversee project implementation, with the DAPS as its
secretariat. The situation improved after the DAPS director was made principal adviser to the Minister and
the DAPS management strengthened, notably by staff trained at the International Institute of Educational
Planning (UNESCO). By September 1999, IDA could comment on improved perfornance by the DAPS.
At the level of the DRF, there were initial significant delays in contract management which affected the
AGETUR and AGDSD portfolios. However, with the appointment of new and additional staff to the
responsible DRF unit, implementation improved. Also, the initial serious problems identified by the
negative 1996 audit were resolved satisfactorily. These had included failure of the newly introduced
financial management system; physical co-mingling of books and supplies acquired, respectively, by the
project and the ministry; the lack of any inventory and inventory control system. FinaUy, the ministry took
the decisions needed to streamline management, to delegate greater management responsibility for
construction to AGETUR and to better align the US and French technical assistance with the minister's
priorities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Delegation of school construction  to  professional management paid   off in improved
implementation. Government construction services such as that of the MENRS cannot recruit
qualified and experienced staff and government service does not provide the incentives for good
- 13-



performance.
*   Agreement on the works to be performed and goods to be acquired as a condition of appraisal,
launching tenders early, with bid evaluation a condition for credit effectiveness, would have
ensured transparency and early implementation.  For example, book titles and quantities were
agreed at appraisal and if tenders had been launched immediately (with the standard Bank disclaimer)
many more books could have been acquired. As it was, over US$2.0 million remained undisbursed.
The first contract payment was not made until January 1997, two years into the project. With regard to
works, the numbers and sites of classrooms to be constructed or rehabilitated were not identified until
1996, with the first payments to the contract managers, AGETUR and A GDSD, made in June 1997.
*   When absorptive capacity and implementation are known to be weak, a careful assessment of the
implications of the proposed work load is essential, if serious delays are not to be encountered.
The DAPS was overloaded and found it difficult to conduct planning and studies while managing the
MENRS' operational priorities. In the event, policy formulation and prospective studies were sacrificed
to procurement until late in the project. The situation would have been considerably relieved if
procurement of works and books had been "front end loaded", as suggested above, giving the DAPS
and the DRF more time for improving their core skills
*   The capacity of families and communities to finance education should be carefuly assessed and
monitored, together with other contributions they may be expected to make (to primary health
care, for example). Similarly, a sustainable community response will likely depend on
participation in management responsibilities. The "Comptes Economiques de l'Education"
highlighted the major contributions of the communities and APEs to the financing of education (almost
10 per cent of the project costs). It further noted that the assumptions about capacity to pay did not
reflect the economic realities of the country - family incomes in cotton growing areas were
disproportionate to those of other zones. Many communities could not pay the teachers they had
recruited, creating unexpected pressures on the central budget. Also, both AGETUR and AGDSD
obliged communities to pay out maintenance fimds before handing over the new classrooms, without
any assessment of differences in ability to pay. In terns of community participation, it was only in
2001 that operating funds were delegated to the level of the DDEs under the budget reform process.
However, the arrangements whereby civil society is to have a role in the management of funds are not
yet clear.
*   The transition from project lending to budget support requires careful monitoring, to ensure that
priority sector work is implemented, with the benefit of IDA advice. Key concems are:
development of a coherent strategy for girls participation in secondary education;  improving
knowledge about community and family ability to pay for education; the need to update unit costs;
establishment of a management system for contractual teachers; the determination of an improved
system for measuring student achievement; and the development of a strategy for higher education
reform and development.
- 14 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Summary
1.     Assessment of Project Development Objectives
The project meets key national development objectives:
*      Developmnent of human capital;
*      Poverty and illiteracy reduction;
*      Increasing community participation to education development;
*      Strengthening planming and education sector management capacity.
2.     Assessment ofproject execudon
2.1    Project physical output
Ciul works and textbooks. The project has exceeded output targets at appraisal, with execution rates of
112.per cent in classrooms construction/rehabilitation (675 instead of 600) and 325 per cent in quantities of
textbooks (French and mathematics, primary and lower secondary education). The National Budget has
financed 42 classrooms and blocks of latrines in 7 districts where girls' enrolment was very low. Given the
success of the program and the support expressed by communities, it is regrettable that the Bank did
abruptly close the project.
Vehicle and equipment, furniture. Primary beneficiaries are: Ministry of Education (vehicles, office and
computer equipment, including in support of a computer-based school infrastructure management system),
African Virtual University (computer, furniture) and Girls' boarding facilities and girls' education
promotion program (furniture).
Consultants. Primary beneficiaries are: Primary education (teachers and head teachers training), Primary
and secondary (Inventory of school infrastructure, civil works, textbooks specifications), Studies (girls'
education promotion, education system internal efficiency, assessment of girls' boarding facilities
experience, audits and communication strategy, community survey).
Training. Primary beneficiaries are: Teachers, head teachers, lower secondary education principles,
pedagogical counselors and inspectors. Type: on-the-job training (teachers), management (head teachers),
text books evaluation (inspectors), infrastructure and books maintenance and renewal (communities and
education staff), procurement (Project Coordination Unit)
Girls'enrollment program: 10 Education workers, from May 2000 to February 2001 (Project closing).
Evaluation report by international consultant recommends providing communities with appropriate
infrastructure to meet needs stemming from promotion campaign.
2.2.   Project Disbursement Performance
Overview: From October 1995 to December 2001, disbursement rate for IDA-financed and Benin-financed
- 15-



activities were 75 per cent and 67 per cent respectively. Execution rates varied widely over time:
2.2.1  From October 1995 to June 1998 (33 months). Until the project mid-term review (PMR) in June
1998, the project had spent 14.5% of its total cost.
2.2.2. From June 1998 to November 2000. IDA-financed activities execution rate went from 14 per cent
to 61 per cent in 30 months. Most PMR recommendations have been implemented during this period. In
November 2000, Government requested a second extension of the February 28, 2001 closing date until
December 31, 2001), based on progress achieved and response from communities.
2.2.3. From December 2000 to December 2001. This has been a period of procrastination and confusion
between a Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PERAC), relative to 2001 expenditures management,
and an extension of the closing date requested to bring to a successful end activities under the project.
Following IDA's rejection of govemment's extension request, no new commitments were made under the
project after 2/28/2001, the project closing date. The rate of execution fell back to 14 per cent.
3.     Bank, Government and Technical Assistance Performance.
3.1.   Problems related to Benin's administration:
*      Slow execution of works and services has caused some delays;
*      Lack of active participation by some of the technical directorates in project execution;
*      The project coordination unit, although not designed to be an execution agency, had at times to
become involved in execution, to prevent major slippages in the program.
3.2.   Problems related to IDA (and other donors) procedures:
*      Delays in getting IDA's non-objection and in disbursement;
*      Bank staff vacations and changes in Bank staffing caused delays;
*      Abrupt closing of Credit 2613-BEN in the context of the PERAC.
Discussion. In its reply to Government's request for a second extension of the project closing date until
December 31 2001, the World Bank had argued that in the PERAC context, the 2001 budget had allocated
funds (CFAF 2.2 billions) to the education sector to meet sector needs and support the Ministry of
Education's activities, and therefore additional monies from an extension of the Education Sector Credit
closing date could lead to potential duplications from a financing point of view, in contradiction with the
PERAC's objectives. Consequently, the project was closed on February 28, 2001.
While accepting the pertinence of the Bank analysis, the Government regrets the lack of focused
consultation among all keys actors at a time when the country was experimenting for the first time with
PERAC. The decision to plan a CFAF 2.2 billions allocation for the Education sector in the 2001 budget
involved the Ministries of Finance, Planning and Education as well as the World Bank. Prior to the
decision, none of the parties involved seem to have had prior consultations with the Project Coordination
Unit The project was closed on February 28, 2001. As a result, many activities that should have been
implemented during the project extension, have not been executed today. In particular, the following
activities, on which the Bank had given its non-objection, have not yet been implemented, in spite of the
fear of duplication:
- 16 -



*      Evaluation of the learning process performance;
*      Study on construction standards and costs;
*      Equipment for directorates in the Ministry of Education, both at the central and district level;
*      Capacity building in the education sector (training related to administration, accounting, finance,
planning, management);
*      A mission to Madagascar and Niger to study their experience in double shift classes and
multigrade teaching;
*     -Study on key sector policies related to recruitment, management and teacher's training, including
contractual teachers;
*      Updating the Education Sector Strategy (2001-2010).
Under these circumstances, the project closing had a significant impact on the motivation and commitment
of staff in the Project Coordination Unit and elsewhere. Nevertheless, the project staff has done its best to
implement other program activities in the 2001 fiscal year.
3.3.   Other problems
Although contributions from beneficiary commuunities were planned in the design of the project financial
package, arrangements to mobilize community contributions were left unclear. In the absence of alternative
mechanisms, district level workshops periodically organized under the project as part of the communication
and training component were relied upon to mobilize commitments from communities. Assessing the
effectiveness of this approach will have to wait the implementation of decentralization.
Despite its very good review, the new Public Finance Management Information System was late in
processing advances under the 2001 Public investment Program. The first advances under the Program
were received by the project in June. Other projects in the sector had to wait much longer.
4.     Suggestions and Perspectives
Upon comparing initial project objectives with achievements reported above, the Minister of Education and
its senior staff believe that the time has come to negotiate a new credit with IDA in support of the
implementation of primary and secondary education policies. Key strategic actions at sector level should be
provided with a specific support to supplement financing under the PERAC which could be constrained by
other pressures on the National Budget. The complete report in French is available in the project files and
upon request.
Prepared by:
Director, Progrmnming and Prospective,
Education Project Coordinator
Joseph Ahanhanzo
Untitled Section
Borrower's Comments on the Bank's ICR:
The Borrower feels that IDA's ICR is too critical of the performance of the Borrower while the
performance of the Bank goes largely uncriticized. The Borrower notes that the Project was closed in
February 2001, and the equivalent of the undisbursed funds credited to the Education Sector in the 2001
- 17 -



program budget without adequate consultation of the Ministry. The Borrower further notes that since July
2001 the Project (now under imnplementation under the program budget) has not received sufficient
attention by Bank missions. The Borrower also considers that the Bank ICR underestimates the
institutional difficulties encountered by the Project Coordination Unit. Notably, the majority of the MENRS
technical directorates failed to assume their responsiblities under the Project, particularly with regard to
drafting terms of reference, preparing tenders and other technical documentation which were properly their
responsibility. The Borrower considers that the reason for this was that the technical directorates were not
sufficiently prepared for their roles. Consequently, all these responsiblities devolved to the project
coordination unit, placing it in the position of a classic project implementation unit (which the project
design had sought to avoid).
The Borrower also disagrees with the Bank's assertion that the DAPS role in project coordination
and implementation was diluted by the Ministry's needs to respond to strong social pressures by the
provision of classrooms, books and materials to schools newly created by parent teacher associations.
With regard to the studies related to girls' schooling, the Borrower references a study carried out in
1994 (before Credit effectiveness) with the help of USAID. Relative to the action research study to be
financed by IDA, the Borrower recognizes significant delays in the recruitment of the international
consultant (the study was only launched in the last year of the project). Regarding the study of the girls'
boarding facilities, the Borrower recognizes that no study of recurrent costs was carried out. However, it
notes that the Govemment is strongly committed to maintaining the program.
With regard to the procurement of school books, the Borrower notes that the quantity of books
acquired significantly surpassed the project target. The undisbursed balance of US$2.0 million is
attributable to the rate of the exchange.
Regarding the accounting for parents' contribution, the Borrower notes that AGETUR and
AGDSD have on record photocopies of receipts for community contributions which are estimated at a 100
per cent of target
The Borrower's comments also provide factual corrections and amplification of specific points
which have been taken into account in IDA's ICR where appropriate.
The complete report is in the project files and is available upon request.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
| :     ' *indicator-Ma trl  -              p j    dInU atPS                     A  u , ;,I,  l,  -
Gross pimary enrollement rate                                               80%
Girls partdipation in primary education                                     75%
Contractual primary schod teachers recruited N.A.                           6000
Textbooks and guides delivered        750,000                               1,330,000
Ratb textbooks / student              1 2 per subject in primary grades; 1:2 in  1 2 primary; 1:3 lower seconday
lower secondary
New primary school paces              Not estimated -12,000 at appraisal    23,000
Studies caried out and recommendations  UNB, VET, FJF, assessmentof         UNB; VET, labor market FJF
implemented                           achievement, factors pnxmoting gils
partidpation, double shifts, multigrade
teaching
Output Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrx                    ! Projected In last PSR               Actu.alLatest Etimate
End of project
-19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal 4 ActualtLaty t   Percentage of,
J J2 i l: ,. . ~F                              Estinate      Es- timate     A pprisal
:.PoJet Cost By Component             US$ million  U.S$ million 
l.a School rehabilitation and reconstuction 1/        7.50           7.80            104
L.b. Programs to increase girls' participation 2/     0.50           0.08             16
2.a. In-service training and examination improvements  1.20          0.85             72
2.b. Textbook provision 3/                            5.60           4.14             74
3.a. Planning and programming                         1.00           0.70             70
3.b. Financial and human resource management          2.00            1.02            51
1/ Includes: (i) construction 2 boarding centers; (ii)
rehabilitation of MENRS facilities; (iii) furniture and
equipment; and (iv) 60 per cent of operating costs. APE
and community costs not included because not accounted
for.
2/ Study of factors promoting girls participationation and
pilot programs; also assessment of boarding program
3/ Assumes Govemment financing of US$ 1.4 million.
Accounts were not kept of APE financing (estimated at
US$ 0.83 mnillion in the SAR).
Total Baseline Cost                                  17.80           14.59
Physical Contingencies                               1.78
Pice ContingencIes                                   2.60
Total Project Costs             22.18           14.59
Total Financing Required              22.18          14.59
Acdual costs by component indude contingencies
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
P-rocurement Method'I-
Ekperidit re;:Ca~~~~ory,~                       2         N..F        Ttal Cost,"
Expnditur:CategoryI      -    ICB   -   -l . ~ NCB         Other       l
1. Works                          1.40           4.30           0.00           0.00           5.70
(1.10)         (3.50)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (4.60)
2. Goods                          7.00           1.30           0.00           3.00           11.30
(7.00)         (1.10)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (8.10)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00           2.70           0.00           2.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.70)          (0.00),       (2.70)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           2.80           0.00           2.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.30)          (0.00)        (2.30)
6. PPF refinancing               0.00            0.00           0.40           0.00           0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)          (0.00)        (0.40)
Total                          8.40           5.60           5.90           3.00          22.90
(8.10)         (4.60)         (5.40)          (0.00)'       (18.10)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
5/12/1990                   I    EDU
4/22/1991                   2    EDU
9/17/1991                   5    UNESCO, EDU, IMP, TEXTBK
6/14/1992                   8    ECON (2), FIN, IMP., SPEC,
EDU (2) GIRLS ED, MIS
12/2/1992                   4   EDU, ECON, INST DEVP, FIN
10/16/1993                  3   EDU, IMPL., FIN
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/28/1993                   8    ECON (2), TEXTBK,
OPER,
IMPL SPEC (cons.), ARCH
(cons.), EDU, INST. DEV.
(cons.)
10/16/1993                  3    ECON, OPER, IMPL. SPEC.
(cons.)
Supervision
11/94                       2   ECON, FIN (cons.)                  S             S
10/95 Project               3   ECON, OPER (2)                     S             S
Launch
5/96                        2    ECON, OPER                        S             S
6/97                         2   ECON, OPER                        U             S
12/97                       4   IMP, EDU, DISB, FIN                U             U
2/98                         4   ECON, OPER, TEXTBK, RES.          S             S
REP
3/98                         3   FIN (2), DISB
6/98 MTR                     8   EDU (2), OPER (2), ARCH, FIN      S             S
(cons.), ACS (2)
12/98                        7  IMP, OPER, EDU, FIN, DISB,         S             S
ACS (2)
9/99                         5   OPER (2), FIN, ARCH, DISB         S             S
3/2000                       S   OPER (2), TEXTBK, HE, HS,         S             S
DISB
10/2000                     4   OPER (2), PLAN/ECON (cons.),       S             S
DISB
12/2000                     6   EDU, ECON, HS, FIN, DISB,          S             S
ACS
5/2001                      2    EDU, OPER                         S             S
ICR
ACS = Team Assistant, ARCH = Architect, DISB = Disbursement Assistant, ECON = Economist, EDU = Education Specialist,
FIN = Financial Management Specialist, GIRLS ED = Girls Education Specialist, HE = Higher Education Specialist, HS =
-23 -



Health Specialist, IMP = Implementation Specialist, INST DEVP  Institutional Development Specialist, MIS = Management
Information Specialist, OPER = Operations Officer, PLAN/ECON = Planner/Economist, RES. REP. = Resident Representative,
TEXTBK = Textbook Specialist.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                102.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                      93.0
Supervision                               197.0                        520.5
ICR                                         5.0                         11.6
Total                                     397.0                        532.1
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantal, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Ol Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
OI Physical                            O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
OI Institutional Development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
LI Gender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
3 Lending                                          OHS*S        OLU    OHU
3 Supervision                                      OHS OS       O u    O HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS       O u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
s Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
2 Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       0 U    O HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS O u O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Audit Operationnel de l'UNB, Verhaegen et al. 1998
Avant-Projet de Politique Nationale de la Promotion de la Femme au Benin, MPSCF, 1998
Benin Interim Country Strategy 2001
Benin Second Education Project PCR, (Report No. 9478, March 28, 1991)
Benin Second Structural Adjustment Credit ICR (Report No.15061, 11/21/1995)
Benin Third Structural Adjustment Credit ICR (Report No. 19483, 6/29/1999)
Bilan de l'Education - le Cas du B6nin, ADEA 1999
Compte Gen6ral Economique de l'Education USAID/IIEP 1998
Comptes Economiques de l'Education Detailles par D6partement 1993-96, USAID/IIEP, 1998
Country Assistance Strategy for Benin, (IDA/R94-81, 1994)
Coutumes Ancestrales et Droits de la Femme au B6nin, PNUD, 1997
Decision Meeting Minutes
Financement de l'Education et Reformes Budgetaires au Benin, MENRSIADEA, 1999
IDA Supervision Mission Reports, Aide-memoire and PSRs 1-18.
IDB Loan Agreement for the Construction of Four University Residences 1999
Interviews with project personnel, the IDB project unit, AGETUR and USAID staff, October 2000
MENRS Program Budget 2001-2003
MENRS, Modules de Formation - Formation Initiale des Enseignants Contractuels, 1998
MENRS, Technical Note on Book Policy, MENRS, February 2002
MENRS, Note Explicative (Etudes participation des filles), avril 2002
PERC mission reports
Staff Appraisal Report - Training Fund LIL 2000 Technical Note on the FJF, MENRS, February 2002
Staff Appraisal Report, Benin Education Development Project (No 123571-BEN, March 29, 1994)
Strategy Note on Higher Education MENRS 2000
Strategy Note on Technical Education MENRS 2000
Textes Organiques de la F6d6ration Nationale des APEs. 1998
- 27 -






MAP SECTION






TA ,-~'r-~-.UBYA
-RA
-7      0                                                         .. ! :eR LA ... ,)-<.> u8rA  l  2 \_/Url Th,n mop woT  p ad- eid hy th.
A      '! s                                                                                Mop D-pga U,olf The Wo-dd 8-k
-                            I _   I   /.  CHAD.( \             \'-D.  N  I G  E  R  1  aatdanyatht^.,nlOa m,I,oet'NI E
- - -Li                                                                       )       -~~~~~~NG  -
-  -, ,, ,,  _  4, |   -, ,,,,,  - X,   .AQ   t SUDAN  (  \<Px;   t   on the -egeLtto  of -ny te,ntor
<                 aj ,2<   i  ToNl07r@   !unoy ode ent or.acceptancL  of
B-U;  K xIt N AFRlLAdREruLLE \ )eh F*      B,koo  l                                  - )
1i     _Ja-C- i Je;f12                                                   12-
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
,;  DLM Rt,P) 
B U R K I N A   .                                                          BENI
F ATACRA 0               /                                S   St C 
T.JP--.d                                                @1 DEPARTMENTC
R~~) DONGA                                                            CNEToUSU=DR,D PART>,_  E T
W       7V~~~W&
N I GA E R'ITA
T O G O                   csb 0              > 
DEPARTMENTS      &          _            \     $    4   \RBOE NPIN
(D  ALIBORI                ,                     u6s 
) ATACORA     /                 Bnl                                      SUB-PREEFUECTIU50 RE C ENTERS
Gi) BORGOU                                                             &  DEPARThlENT CAPITALS
(i  DONGA                          \                   \CHEF_-UEUNDE DEPARTEMENT
()COLLINES                                                               N > |\ \, j  ATIOAL CAPTAL
z) PLATEAu   -         ,           O l oaH         j               -   PAVEDROADS
   KOUFFO                 I |.OLTEREVETEJE
RAILROADS
O   MONO                   I                                              CHEMIN DEFER
ATLANTIQUE                    .        e                               RIVERS
Outm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~-                               RIVIERES
LITTORALE   r;kW       |       > HX fE3      /      !                  SU3     EEOUNDARIS
EITES DES SOUJS-PRECIE
(0) LITTORAL  t ;> tlgq /   ~   oT)  .5l   _  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
ULIA4TES DES DEPARTEMENTS
NI  NI                                             - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7)INTEENATIONAL BOUNDARIES
L 0 40                        \ DjdIKl                                     UNITES D'ETATS
KILCMEIRS         t5    |t      6 
Aplohto   6 eLet   -   B   n   /   6 >
i    q     ~~~Alhono 6 e 
n  \   .,  J       udch-C ONOUNOVOf
G H A N A                           Popo             Q3 S  Cie,OGp d-/      Bight of Benin
76<  --'>2                                       o4.









IMAGING
Report No.:        22686
Type:     ICR



