,_/-,       -'(-'/           '-  (:Z i'       H
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12571-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
(THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT)
MARCH 29, 1994
MICROGRAPH TCS
Report No:        12571 BEN
Type: SAR           27    E
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipien  only in the performance of
their officiaml duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
The rate of CFA francs 590 to the US dollar is
used for cost projections as of January 1994.
The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF)
in the ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 100.
MEASURES
1 m = 1.09 yd.
1 m = 10.76 sq.ft.
1 km = 0.38 sq.mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APE         -     Parents' Association (Association des parents d'eleves)
CLEF        -     Children's Leaming and Equity Foundation Program
DAF               Department of Financial Affairs (Direction des affaires financieres)
DAPS        -     Department of Analysis, Forecasting and Synthesis (Direction de l'analyse, de la
prevision et de la syrdhese)
DDE         -     Regioaal Education Offices (Direction departementale de I 'education)
DEC         -     Department of Examinations (Direction des examens et concours)
DEP         -     Department of Primary Education (Direction de l'enseignement primaire)
DES         -     Department of Secondary Education (Direction de 1'enseignement secondaire)
DI?RH       -     Department for Human Resource Management (Direction des resources
humaines)
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
IMF         -     International Monetarv Fund
INFRE       -     National Institute for Educational Research and Training (Institut national pour
la formation et la recherche en education)
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
MEN         -     Ministry of National Education (Ministare de l'education nationale)
PPF         -     Project Preparation Facility
SA          -     Special Account
SAL         -     Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE         -     Statement of Expenses
VET         -     Vocational Education and Training
USAID       -     United States Agency for Intemational Development
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
School Year
October 1 - June 30



ii
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUARY
Borrower:  Government of Benin
Amounlt:   SDR 13.2 million (US$18.1 million equivalent)
ems:        Standard, with 40 years maturity
afw
riptijon: The Govemment of Benin has developed a program for educational development,
described in a Statement of Policy and Strategy. This project will support its
mplementation, largely concentrating on primary education, with a focus on
girls' participation, and has the following objectives: (a) increase access to
primary school, with a specific emphasis on girls' participation both at primary
and secondary levels; (b) improve the quality and internal efficiency of primary
and secondary education; and (c) improve the institutional capacity for planning
and managing the sector's human and financial resources.
To achieve these objectives, the project will finance investments designed to:
1. Increase access to prima=y education (focusing on girls' Varticipation) by:
(a) expanding primary school rehabilitation and reconstruction by beneficiary
communities; and (b) implementing programs to increase girls' participation at the
primary and secondary levels.
2. ILm rove quality and efficiency of primary and secondary educatdon by:
(a) developing in-service training for primary school inspectors, pedagogic
counsellors and school directors, and management training for secondary school
heads; and (b) providing and distnbuting textbooks and teachers' guides at the
primary and lower secondary levels.
3.  Improve sector planming and management capacity of the MEN by:
(a) strengthening its planning and programming capacity; and (b) developing its
capacity for financial and human resources management.



...
and R       There are two main benefits. The first benef will be the provision of more and
better education, wbich in the long term will contribute to poverty reduction.
Access to school will increase, and the primary school gross enrollment rate will
rise from 51 percent to 59 percent during the project period. Girls' enrollment
will increase from 36 percent to 42 percent at the primary level as a result of
targeted activities and the increased number of places in the schools, and from
30 percent to 40 percent at the lower-secondary level as a result of the creation
of boarding facilities. The improvement of female education will in the long mn
translate into: (i) better infant and maternal health; (ii) increased women's labor
productivity; (iii) improved women's employment opportnides; and (iv) a better
predisposition to adopt meaures for family plaming among educated girls and
women. The quality of education will be improved through the ratonalization of
school building and maintenance and the provision of an initial stock of textbooks
at the primary and lower secondary levels. Improved traiing and effective
supervision of teachers by school officers and school heads, pedagogical material
availability and better student examination will increase internal efficiency and
improve student learning outcomes. The second benefit will be the development
of capacity within the Ministry of National Education (Ministere de I'&cation
nationale, MEN) to plan and manage the sector more effectively.  The
development of competent technical and administrative staff in the newly
established structures, better functions and staffing patterns of the MEN, and
increased decentralization of responsibilities for educational planning,
mnanagement and administration to the regional education offices will improve
systems operations and the responsiveness to local needs. The new primary
school building procedures and textbook replenishment at the lower-secondary
level will rationalize the participation of communieiesand strengthen their role in
the education system.
There are two main risks. The f rirsk is  failure to attain project goals if the
budget allocations for the sector, agreed with the Government and analyzed
thoroughly to ensure their coherence with implications of Project components, are
not executed. This risk has been addressed by agreements reached with IDA
regarding budget allocation; budget execution will be monitored and reviewed
annually. Moreover, the release of funds for the ongoing USAID program of
budgetary support and technical assistance for primary education is conditioned
upon agreements for budget allocation and execution that are identcal to those
agreed upon with IDA. Project activities directed towards establishing a better
framework for teacher employment, including the recrimment of conutacual (non-
civil servant) teachers for primary schools will be equally significant in this
respect. A second risk is delayed project implementation due to the fact that
project implementation goes in parallel with the development of staff competence
and the changes in management behaviors. This risk is addressed by ongoing
efforts to match defined posts with staff profiles, the provision of technical
expertise in the sector, the use of technical assistance to transfer skdlis to staff,
and the continuous monitoring and evaluation to remove bottlenecks to implemen-



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BEN
EDUCAIOQN DEVELOPMfENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA .........................................                                               i
CREDIT AND PROJECT                          ............................... ii
I. INTRODUCTION ..........................................1
H. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.    Background .......................................   1
B.     Economic Developments ...............................   2
C.     Education Sector.          .............................. .  2
1. The Education System   ...........................                              2
2. Sector Development Issues  ...........................   3
3. The Government's Education Strategy  .........               ...........  6
D.  Lessons leaned ................................. 8
This report is based on the findings of the Bank appraisal and post-appraisal missions which visited Benin in May and
October, 1993. The appraisal mission comprised R. Crown (Senior Economist and Mission Leader), and Mmes/Messrs.
C. Laurent (Economist); R. Prouty (Education Specialist); M. Laleye (Insdtutional Development Specialist); S. Diop
(Textbook Specialist); J. Waechter (Architect); J.C. Hameidat (Implementation Specialist); M. Bradley (Operations
Analyst); and 0. Diagana (Resident Mission). The post-appraisal mission was carried out by Mme/Messrs. C. Laurent
(Task Manager), J.C. Hameidat and 0. Diagana. Mr. 0. Adamolekun is the Lead Adviser. Peer reviewers included
Mmes. A. Sayeh (economic aspects). J. Leno and R. Bellew (primary and secondary education). Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
and Mr. Ok Pannenborg are the Department Director and managing Division Chief, respectively, for this operation.
This document has a restricted distbuton and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
m.  EPROJ CT
A.    Project Objectives, Scope and Description  ....................  9
1. Increase the Access to Primary Education  .................. 11
2. Improve the Quality and Efficiency of Primary and Secondary Education 13
3. Improve the Sector Planning and Management Capacity  ....       ...... 16
B.    Project Cost and Financing Plan .......................... 18
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Status of Project Preparation ............................ 19
B.    Project Coordination and Management  ...................... 19
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation .............................. 20
D.    Implementation schedule ............................... 21
E.    Procurement ...................................... 21
F.    Disbursements ..................................... 25
G.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ........................ 26
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits ........................................... 27
B.    Risks and Meaes to Address Them ........                 I I I - I I I I ....27
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..  28
VI  A N " 7  --, AM
I      SAL II Conditionalities Related to Education
II-A Flow chart of the formal education system (Organugramme du systeme educatif)
II-B   OrgaDisadon chart of the Ministry of National Educaton (Organigramme du Ministere
de 1'Education nationale)
Il-C   Education data
HI      Letter of general policy for education sector (Lettre de politique generale du secteur
Education et plan d'action)
IV    Evolution of Education Budget 1989-1993 and Financing Plan 1994-1999
V     Monitoring Outcome Indicators for Project
VI    Project Cost and Financing Tables
VII   Textbooks Provision
VIII Supervision Plan
IX    Implementation Schedule and Calendar of Activities



TAM1E OF CONTENTS (continued)
X     Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
XI   Project Implementation Manual: Table of Contents
XII   Status of Bank Loans/Credits
XmI   Documents available in Project Files
MAP: IBRD No. 25648



i
REPIBLIC OF BENIN
BASIC DATA
Total area                                                  113,000 km2
Per capita ome (1992)                                       US$410
Total population (1992)                                     4.8 million
Urban populaton as percen of total population (1992)        30 percen
Anual population growth (1990)                              3.1 percent
Total ferdtity rate (1992)                                  7.1
Cude birth rate (per 1000 pop.) (1990)                      46
Crude death rate (per 1000 pop.) (1990)                     15
nant mortlity rate (per 1000 live births) (1990)            113
Life expectancy at birth (years) (1990)                     SO
Adult literacy rate (Q988)                                  23 percet
Femae lteracy rate (1988)                                   16 percent
Gross primary school enrollment rate (1993)                 51 percent
Proportion of girls in Pmay School (1993)             :    36 percent
Gross primary enollment rate in the Atacora region (1992)   34 percent
Proportion of girls in prmary school in Atacora(1993)  :    29 percent
Secondary school enrollment rate (1993)                     11 percent
Proportion of girls in lower-secondary school (1993)        30 percen
Proportion of girls in upper-secondary school (1993)        21 percent
Sources:
World Bank Development Report, 1992
Preliminary findings of Benin's second census, October, 1992
Atacora is the region in Benin with the lowest prmary enrollment rate.



iv
tation. Equally significant in this regard is the delegation of resp)nsibility for
managing classroom rehabilitation and reconstruction to non-govermental
agencies.
P9v
Ago=y:   Promnm  of Targeted Interventions.  The provision of an initial stock of
textbooks, together with the rationalization of communities's participation in
school construction will lower the cost of schooling, thus increasing poor
children's access to primary school. The targeted activities for girls will have the
same result. Improvements in the quality of teaching at the primary level will
increase both students' learning and their participaton in primary school. Since
the proportion of the poor among the beneficiaries will be significantly larger than
their proportion in the overall population of Benin, this project is part of the
Program of Targeted Interventions.



V
REPIBLIC OF BEiMN
EDUCATION DEVE£LeMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cos i'*lmates
(including taxes and duties, in iJS$ million)
1.    INCREASE ACCESS TO PRIMRY EDUCArON
(a) Primary School Rehabilitation and RconucO                        12      2.0       3.2
0) Pilot Pogram to ncrea Grls' Patcadion                             0.7      13       2.0
2.    IMPROVE QUALITr AND EMCIENCY OF PRVIARY AND
SECONDARY EDUCATION
(a) In-Servico Traiin                                                0.9     0.2       1.1
(b) Textbook                                                         0.3     7.9       8.2
3.    IMPROVE SECrOR PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
(a) Stenghen Sector Planing and Coordinaton                          0.3     0.5       0.8
.p) Deveop Financal and Human Resources Management                   1.0     2.6       3.6
4.    PROWE    PREPARATION ADVANCE                                         0.2      0.2      0.4
Total Bace Costs                                               1217
Physical Coontgcies                           0.4      14       1.8
Prke Contingencies                            gd-    L4         IA
TOTAL PROJECT COSIS                           5A      17.5     22.9
FINANCING PLAN                                I      1           & Dud        *i
IDA (net of taxes ad duties)               3.5      14.6        0.0          18.1
Governen (inchWing 100% taxes and duties)  OA        0.7        IA            2.5
co-nu                                      9A   la    u                       ;a
TOTAL                        4.0      17.5        1            22.9
ISPIDATED IDA D         9SDURSEMEI               IDA FISCAL YEAR
FY95  FY96  FY97  FY96  FY9    FY2I00
Anual                         1.0    2.6    5.7    4.6    3.6         0.6
Cumubtive                     1.0    3.6    9.3   13.9   17.5        18.1
Rate of retum: Not applicable.



RPBIC OF BEIdN
EDUCA11ON PEVELOnZfRQ13C
I. I      U
1.1 The Government of Benin has requested IDA assistance to finance a five-year project to
implement some of the action plans designed in accordance with Benin's Education Development
Strategy for the years 1994-1999. The cental objectives of the project are to: (a) increase
access to schooling with a special emphasis on girls' participation; and (b) enhance the quality
of education by imprving teachers' in-service taining and ireasing basic inputs in the sector.
Secondary objectives are to stengthen the instiutional capacity within the Ministry of Nationa
Education (Minstare de l'Education nationale,    ) to efficiently plan, coorinate and manage
the activities and resources of the sector.
1.2 The project will be the third IDA-financed operation for the development of education
in Benin since 1975. Investment programs nd policy measures supported through the project
are based on lessons learned from the first two completed projects, Education I (Cr. 583-DA,
1976-1983) and Education II (Cr. 1246-BEN, 1982-1989), and the Second Adjustment Credit
(SAL II, Cr. 2283-BEN, .FY 1991).
1.3 Total project cost is estimated at US$22.9 million equivalent (including taxes and duties),
with a foreign exchange component of US$17.5 million. The Government and beneficiary
communities will contribute the equivalent of US$4.8 million (including taxes and duties). The
remaining US$18.1 million (net of taxes and duties) will be financed by IDA. USA1D is
currenty providing parallel fincing of US$50 million of budgetay sWpport (1991-1996) and
US$11 million for training and tehical &ssistance (1991-1996) in support of primary school
development.
EL SErTORAL CONTrE[
A. Bakgoud
2.1   Benin has an area of 113,000 kn and a population of 4.8 million which is increasing at
about 3.1 percent p.a. (1990). The annual per capita income is approximately US$410 (1992).
Agriculure accounts for about 40 percen of GDP, 80 percent of domestic export receipts and
75 percent of employment. A small industial sector (8 percent of GDP) prodices mosdy
consmtion goods and a few basic commodities. A small offshore oil field began production
in 1983, and generates 17 percent of domestic export receipts. A large tertiary sector accounts
for 50.5 percent of GDP. Because of the volume of transit trade with its neighbors (Burkina
Faso, Niger, Nigeria, and Togo), Benin is especially vulnerable to economic and political
developments in those countries.



2
B. onomI Deyvepjments
2.2   Between 1975 and 1982, GDP grew at an average rate of 5 percent, partly as a result of
the oil and uranium booms in Nigeria and Niger. This growth slowed between 1983 and 1987
due to the collapse in the regional transit traffic at the end of thc oil boom, and the inefficiency
and poor management of the productive sectors which the State dominates. By 1983, the
Gov-nnment was saddled with low-return investments, heavy extenal debt service, and
inma.quate economic incentives.  In 1989, the Government intoduced a fst strmctural
adjustment1 program which represented a fundamental shift towards economic liberalization and
private sector development, and a significant reduction of the public sector's role in the
economy. Benin's successful transiton to a multi-party democracy in 1991 and the emergence
of a national consensus for pursuing the adjustment program led to the adoption of a second and
more ambitous phase; to deepen and expand fiscal, administratve, and public enterprise
reform, and trade liberalization and deregulation. This has improved growth and revenue
performance.
2.3   Benin's medium- and longterm economic prospects have been improved by the progress
in the implementation of structual reforms and the recent adjustment of the CFA franc parity.
Although ¢DP increased by 4.3 percent in 1992 and 1993, thus allowing a slight increase in per
capita incomes, the following major constrain  to development remain to be addressed: (i) a
high fertility rate of 7.1; (ii) a still substal weight of the public sector; (iii) a heavy
dependence on cotton; and (iv) an inadequate administrative and human resource capacity. Non-
public sector employment opportunities remain severely limited.
c. 1ducaon 
i.    The Education Stem
2.4   The education system consists of a six-year cycle of primary education, a four-year
lower-secondary cycle for general and technical education, and a ftree-year upper-secondary
cycle of geneal education or a four-year cycle of technical education. Higher education is
offered through programs ranging from two to seven years at the National University of Benin
wbich includes faculties and specialized insttudons. The MEV is responsible for aU formal
education. Annex    provides a flow chart of the formal education system; Annex II-B shows
the organiztional chart of the MEN; and Ampex    provides stadstical data on the coverage
of the system.
'1DA and the IMP supported the adjustmnft tbrough a SAL I in May 1989, and a SAP aangemt in
June 1989.
2A SAL 11 (US$ 55 million equivalent) was appsoved by IDA in June 1991. Ihe IMP approved a
seoond-year SAF and an ESAP.



3
2.    Sector Development Issues
2.5   Although school participation has increased dramatically between 1975 and 1983, this
achievement proved to be unsustainable and enrollment began declining steadily in 1983, due
to factors both external and intenal to the education system. While theoretically the State
controlled the overall education system to the extent that it confiscated all private schools, at the
primary level, communities were actually responsible for all non-salary expenditures, i.e.
pedagogic materials and classroom construction and maintenance. Slow economic growth and
scarce budget resources did not allow the Government to respond to the growing share of non-
salary expenses that parents and communities no longer could pay for. As a result, school
quality and efficiency declined sharply, a factor that increased parents' reluctance to send their
children to school. Today, although some reforms have begun: (a) school participation remains
limited and access ineftiitably distributed between regions and between boys and girls; (b)
education lacks efficiency at all levels due to financial constraints combined with poor
management of resources; and (c) Government's capacities for planning, programming, and
management remain weak.
(a) Poor access and equity
2.6   Between 1975 and 1983, Goverment's policy was successful in increasing school
participation; primary and secondary gross enrollment rates increased from 39 percent to
62 percent and from 6 percent to 17 percent, respectively. In rural areas enrollment rates at the
primary level increased from 27 percent to 35 percent. Unforunately, this appeared not to be
sustainable. Begining in 1983, parents and communities, hard hit by the economic decline,
could no longer sustain the growing demands for financing non-wage inputs. At best, financing
by parents generated about 25 percent of the needs, leaving a financing gap of 75 percent.
Without supplementary financing from the Government, this financing gap has resulted in the
senous deterioration of quality and general operations. Teachers lacked basic skills and moral
standing and exacerbated the deteriorating quality of education and the growing parental
discontent and disillusiomnent with schooling3. As a result, by 1990, enroDlment rates had
declined to 43 percent in primary schools, 12 percent at secondary general level and 1 percent
at technical secondary level.
2.7   On the other hand, higher education was entirely State-financed, with generous subsidies
for student expenditures. The result was an increase in University enrollment, from 1,000 in
1975 to a current 10,500 (2 percent enrolment rate), exceeding by far the University's physical,
academic and financial capacity as well as the employment demand for graduates of the
University.
3The Government of Beam had hired oyoung revolutionayo teaCbers for primay school, Jeunes
iatutern s rhvoiMiomres (JZIR, to promulgae the Marxst-leninist ideology thoughout the countly.



4
2.8   During the same period (1975-1983), the girls' enrollment rate had increased from
31 percent to 43 percent in primary school, but the deterioration of schooling as a whole has
affected girls more than boys, due to many negative factors. One factor relates to the direct cost
of schooling and the value orientation governing the division of labor in the Beninese society
which designates males to exploratory activities such as formal schooling and females to practical
and more assured productive activities that will ensure the survival of the family. The absence
of a curriculum perceived to be highly relevant to these functions of females has therefore
mitigated against girls' participation in school. The modern economy has also dictated a lower
priority given to girls' education largely because boys are seen to have a higher chance of
employment. Another factor which has had a significantly negative effect on the participation
of girls has been the concern for girls' safety in schools past puberty. Government actions in
the past have included sensitization campaigns and the development of disciplinary procedures
against harassment. However, the success of these actions has been limited due to the poor
design and inappropriate targeting of campaigns. As a result of all the above mentioned factors,
in 1984 the girls' enrollment rate declined to 28 percent in primary school and the proportion
of girls to boys has remained stagnant for many years at 31 percent. Although girls'
participation at the primary level is 36 percent for the 1992-1993 school year, the figure lags
behind the average 45 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, inter-regional inequities are
important, varying from 26 percent at the primary level in the Atacora region to 40 percent in
the Atlantique region.
2.9   Among secondary school girls, participation is further constrained by the fact that
secondary schools are dispersed throughout the country and attendance generally requires
schooling away from home at considerable costs. Girls are generally allowed to attend these
schools when parents can afford the cost of additional transportation and lodging away from
home and when there is some evidence of protection for the girls (either from a male brother
or cousin going to the same school or from guardianis in the community). Girls' participation
in secondary general education is currendy 28 percent (30 percent and 21 percent at lower and
upper cycles, respectively), with regional disparities: the lowest rate is 18 percent in the Mono
region, the highest is 35 percent in the Atlanhique region (see AneII@.
(b) Poor quafity and effciency
2.10 By 1985, the indices of enrollment, quality and internal and external efficiency started
falling well below the norm for SSA and have continued to do so. The education system is
marked by high repetition and drop-out rates, and poor pass rates on examinations. Between
1970 and 1986, average repetition rates increased from 19 percent to 27 percent in primary
schools, and from 12 percent to 32 percent in general secondary schools. Repetition rates are
highest at the University where they have risen to above 40 percent in the general programs, and
24 percent in the professional schools. Two-thirds of an entering cohort drop out of primary
school after an average of 4.7 years. Student achievement is low. Average pass rates of
examination candidates are 38 percent, 14 percent, and 13 percent for examinations at the end
of primary, lower secondary, and upper secondary levels, respectively. Thus, the cost of
producing one graduate who passes the primaWy terminal examination and receives the Certificate



S
of Primary Schooling (Certificat ditudes primaires) is equivalent to 25.6 student years. This
is an abysmally low level of efficiency by any standard. Furthermore, high repetition limits the
number of children who could gain access to education.
2.11 The poor attaimnent and achievement levels result from a large number of factors among
which are the highly selective and examination-oriented structure of the education system, and
the poor instructional quality linked to poor teaching methods. The curricula consist of a list
of topics with no well-defined scope, sequence and levels of competency for mastery of the
content at the various grade levels. Large variabilities exist in implementation and it is difficult
to interpret the learning outcomes of the students. Textbooks are costly and in limited supply
large'y as a result of the previous Government's monopolistic policies in production and
procurement, which has now been abandoned. The ratio of books to students was generally 1:15
in primary schools and 1:21 in secondary schools. It has been increased in 1991 to 1:5 at
primary level and 1:2 at lower-secondary level4. National examinations were originally meant
to serve as the most important determinant of what is taught and to be the only means of
monitoring achievement. Their current primary function is the selection into the upper levels.
Furthermore, the high rate of repetiton among passing students suggests a low pedagogic
validity of these exams.
(c) Fnancial constraints and high costs
2.12 While personnel and structural factors have inhibited the effective performance of the
educaton system, fiscal policies and financial management have been even more problematic.
Until recently, the education budget has been prepared and managed largely outside the MEN
with allocations governed largely by political considerations. Budgets have been prepared using
a nomenclature and aggregations that make it difficult to determine the exact allocations to the
sector; they have had little or no linkage with changes in priorities or selected initiatives and
programs of the MEN. Multiple control mechanisms have slowed down budget execution and
have led to fraud and waste. These problems have been shared by all public sectors in Benin,
and have been addressed by the adoption of a new budget nomenclature and unified budgets
since 1992.
2.13 Government financing of the sector generally amounted to about 35 percent of the overall
national recurrent budget (compared to an average of 18 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa) with
over 95 percent going to wages, student scholarships and social services. Eight per cent of its
investment budget was allocated to education with over 85 percent of it used for infrastructure
development, technical assistance, and overseas scholarships for vocational, technical and higher
education. The high allocation of resources to the university which was not consistent with
priorities for human resource development has been a major constraint. Up to the mid-1980s
the typical education budget distribution of 43 percent in primary, 30 percent in secondary and
4Te social fund of the IDA Helth Services Development Project (Cr. 2031-BEN) in 1991 financed
textbooks provision for primary schools.



6
29 percent in University was at variance with the Sub-Saharan Africa averages of 52 percent,
30 percent and 18 percent, respectively. Examinations take up an average of 38 percent of the
non-salary budget (exclusive of transfers), and 4 percent of the MEN budget.
(d) Weak se tor planning and rteource management
2.14 Another major problem has been overcentralization, which has resulted in the relative
isolation of regional anid district units; they play no part in the determination of policies and
plans, operational procedures, pedagogical programs, and the budgeting process. However, an
under-developed communication and information system, poorly defined operational and
management procedures, and a multitude of controls that slow down execution have resulted in
a considerable amount of de facto decentralization in decision-making and administration.
Another problem has been the lack of coordination among the units that perform the core
pedagogic functions of teacher training, and curriculum, examination and textbook development.
This has resulted in the duplication of efforts, an overblown administrative staff and a mismatch
between skill requirements and qualifications, and an overall mismanagement of the sector.
Thus, before the redeployment of teachers back to the classrooms which began in 1992, there
was one administrator for every five classroom-teachers. Over one-third of these administrators
were qualified teachers, with a substantial proportion of them performing non-essentWial
administrative functions. At the same time, the lack of teachers outside the main towns implied
that Parents' Associations (Associations de parents d'el&ves, APE) were often obliged to hire
part-time and unqualified teachers.
2.15 The problem with inappropriate staffing and the increasing undersupply of teachers and
staff with key technical skills needed by the sector has developed in part because until 1989
personnel selection, assignment and promotion were governed by the rules and regulations of
the Civil Service. The Ministry in charge of the Civil Service applied these with minimal
consultation with the MEN. Non-professional considerations entered into the placement of staff.
Selection is still solely based on certification. The 1989 organizational audit of the MEN pointed
to the need for change in the procedures for recruiting, selecting, and placing both administrative
staff and teachers.
3.    The Government's Education Strateg
2.16 The Government's newly developed program for Education Development is described in
a Statement of Policy and Strategy (1991) which is accompanied by action plans for 16 programs
(see list in Annex XE). The preparation of these programs benefitted from: (a) a national
debate on the State of Education (Etats GcWndraux de l'Education) in 1990; and (b) an extensive
program of research, capacity building, seminars and a comprehensive organizational audit of
the MENV, supported by a project of the United nations Education, Science and Culture
Organization, and the United Nations Development Program.



7
2.17 For the coming years, the Govenmment's targeted interventions are outlined in a "Letter
of Education Sector Development" (see Annex III) The Government's overall strategy is to
fulfill its own responsibilities in the education system and, taking into account budget constaints,
to maintain and rationalize communities' participation and encourage private sector development
in order tc achieve its objectives of increasing a cess to and the quality of education. Prinaty
education will be the priority sub-sector, with the principal objective of expanding access and
improving equity and quality. In support of this objective, the gross enrollment rate will rise
from 51 percent in the academic year 1992-1993 to 59 percent in 1998-1999; quality and
efficiency will be improved; costs will be contained by redeploying teachers curntly in
administration to the classrooms; the development of multi-grade classrooms in rural areas will
be implemented where appropriate; and teacher:student ratios will be increased. In general
secondary education, the Government's focus is on the quality of education, cost cotaiunment,
and increase in access, with specific attention to girls' participation. In vocational training as
well as in higher education, the Government plans to reform the exisig structures, reduce costs
and improve internal efficiency.
2.18  The Government's revised policy to progressively arrive at new arrangements with
private sector education will add a 10 point increase to the public primary schools' enrollment
rate of 60 percent by the year 2000, thus bringing the national enrollment rate to 70 percent by
the year 2000. It has intensified its dialogue with the private sector and religious organizations,
and is negotiating to return to them schools which were nationalized before 1988. Private
schools already account for 6 percent of the gross enrollment rate at the primary level in 1993
as compared to 3.5 percent in 1991. A USAID-fimanced study to evaluate and develop the
current capacity of the private sector is being conducted.
2.19 In 1989, the budget allocations for primary, secondary and higher education improved.
As a result of this evolution, the budget for 1993 shows allocations of 66 percent, 16 percent
and 18 percent respectively, representing a distribution more consistent with the Government's
medium-term priorites for human resource development and an attempt to contain University
expenditures. Govermment projections for 1994-1999 reduce the share of the University budget
to 13 percent of the education sector budget. The Government also plans to improve the use of
resources at the higher education level by increasing user charges and the revenue generated by
productive units such as the Medical School and Hospital and the Polytechnical Center. Most
significant are measures to contain salary expendiures. During the period 1990-1993, the
Government has increased the teacher:student ratios from 1:31 at the primary level to 1:41, and
from 1:18 to 1:33 at the secondary general level (Annex I?. The Government plans to increase
the teacher:student ratio to a maximum of 1:50 by 1999. While redeployment of teachers from
administrative positions to active teaching in classrooms is currently being implemented, the
Government plans to implement other cost-saving measures by 1997: (a) multigrade teaching
where applicable in rural areas; and (b) a double-shift system in urban areas. Ihese measures
will allow the Government to attain its enrollment targets by 1999 and contain total requirement



8
for teachers to 2,100 (about 1,630 at the primary level and 470 at the secondary level) and the
requirement for additional classrooms to 1,630 for primary schools. The final shortfall of
teachers will be met through the implementation of a new hiring system for contractual teachers
to be developed by the project and adopted by March 31, 1997.
2.20 Since this project is designed to complement Government fnancing of non-salary
expenditures, IDA obtained assurances from the Govermnent that its recurrent budget allocations
and execution will be consistent with agreements reached during negotiations on the criteria
established in the projected spending plan (Annex 1V) and the three-year investment program
which will accompany the Government's Letter of Sector Policy, and will be reviewed annually
with IDA.
D. Lons Leamed
2.21 The Bank Group has been involved in Benin's education sector since 1975. IDA financed
two Education projects to support efforts at improving relevance and the quality of education.
The construction of three regional teacher institutes and the production and distribution of
textbooks were the main elements of the Second Education Project. Since 1989, IDA has
fmanced textbook provision and the rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools, as well as
the development of the university library5. Over the past two years, Bank activities in the
sector have focused on assisting in the development of the policy framework for the adjustment
and development of the sector and for the re-organization of the structures, functions and staffing
of the MtEN. In the absence of a Government's sector stegy, these interventions were
developed either on a case-by-case basis or were designed to respond to an emergency situation.
A policy dialogue was initiated in 1991 within the context of the SAL II operation. Having
assisted the Government under the SAL II to establish the policy and institutional framework for
the development of the sector (see Annex, IDA is now responding to the Government's
request for substantial assistance in implementing these revised policies and plans. The thW
Education project will be the first IDA intervention to include actions in all sub-sectors in
education, although prinary education will receive the greatest share of investment. Priority
areas will be to: (a) increase access to primary education with an emphasis on girls'
participation; (b) improve the quality and efficiency of education; and (c) improve the
institutional capacity for sector planning and management.
2.22 The completion reports for the first two projects and the supervision of ongoing
interventions indicate delays ir contract awards, inadequate project monitoring and coordination,
and institutonal incapacity to meet textbook production targets. The conclusions of the Project
Performance Audit Report (# 5179-BEN) for Benin's first Education Project, dated June 29,
1984, do not apply to the present project since the first Education Project was aimed at
developing the education of rural youth outside of the formal system. The implementation of
5Social Fund of the Heth Serces Developmn Project, Emergenc Fund of SAL H.



9
the ongoing interventions (Social and Emergency Funds) has been constrained by: (a) the
absence of a decision-making framework to guide the selection of schools to be rehabilitated and
the procurement of textbooks; and (b) the weak institutional capacity within the MEN to
implement a modest program to rehabilitate 32 schools. Finally, the Public Investment Program
performance in the education sector in 1993 has been low with an execution rate estimated at
48 percent. The proposed project will address these problems by: (i) procuring textbooks
through ICB and building the capacity for textbook evaluation within the three MEN units in
charge of pedagogy; (ii) finalizing the draft imlementation manual, submitted during
negotiations. by credit effectiveness; (iii) strengthening the newly created Department within
MEN that assumes the key responsibilities for budget monitoring, accounting and the overall
financial management of the sector (Direction des affairesfinanciWres, DAF); and (iv) conducting
joint annual reviews to evaluate the execution of budget allocations agreed upon (Annex IV) and
the progress achieved in carrying out planned activities. The standard bidding documents for
ICB procurement of goods have been prepared, and the Government has confimed that it will
contract the management for reconstruction and rehabilitation of primary schools and boarding
facilities to non-governmental agencies.
m. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obectives. Scone and Description
3.1   Objectives. The project will assist the Government in implementing its education
development program for the period 1994-1999 which aims mainly to: (a) increase access to
primary education with the specific targets of raising the primary enrollment ratio from
51 tvercent in 1993 to 59 percent by 1999, and girls' participation both at the primary and
seondary levels; and (b) improve efficiency of primary and lower secondary schooling. The
project will also support activities to improve the capacity for sector planming and management.
riii Government's policies and programs are described in a "Letter of Education Development
Policy" attached as Annex mL. Progress in achieving these objectives will be assessed against
monitoring indicators, developed and agreed upon with the Government [para. 6.1 (a)], which
include annual targets for non-salary budget expenditures, classroom rehabilitation and
reconstruction, girls' enrollment, and repetition and drop-out rates, as shown in Annexes IV and
V.
3.2   To achieve these objectives, the project will support Government's efforts to: (a) increase
non-wage expenditures for primary and secondary schools, provide basic school supplies and
continuous in-service training for teachers, strengthen general administration and school and
teacher supervision; (b) establish a sustainable system for textbook provision; and (c) contain
recurrent costs by reducing redundant administrative staff, redeploying teachers currently in the
administration to the classrooms, developing multigrade teaching and double-shift system where
applicable, and increasing teacher:student ratios.



10
3.3   Scope. The proposed project will provide broad-based support for more equitable access
to and qualitative improvements in primary and secondary general education, both in terms of
the types of interventions proposed and in geographic coverage. Qualitative improvements such
as in-service teachers' training, improved supervision and management, textbook provision,
examination reform designed to improve learning achievement, and policy measures designed
to improve efficiency and contain costs in secondary and higher education will mainly benefit
primary education. The proposed support to secondary education is modest, focusing on
textbook provision and training in management for the heads of schools at the secondary level.
France will provide support to secondary level teacher training.
3.4  IDA's financing will complement USAID's Children's Learning and Equity Foundation
(CLEF) Program, which aims to assist Benin to: (a) enhance the key pedagogic systems and
inputs for a quality primary education; (b) ensure equity of access to quality primary education;
(c) develop a financially sustainable primary education system; and (d) establish an institutionally
and publicly sustainable primary education system. To promote Government's efforts, the CLEF
Program provides US$50 million of non-earmarked budgetary support over six annual tranches.
Conditions for disbursement include annual targets for budgetary expenditures in primary
education as well as achievements that reflect progress toward implementing the Government's
action plans and attaining its objectives. USAID also provides US$11 million of technical
assistance and training to support Government's efforts to develop, implement and evaluate the
reform program. The areas of expertise provided by USAID are program coordination,
education planning, management information systems, financial management, pedagogy,
curriculum development, teacher training, materials development, etc. USAID plans to develop
an additional project component to improve public participation in the reform program that will
include support to parents' associations. The actions envisaged under the proposed IDA project
are consistent with the provisions under the USAID-fnanced program. Project components to
be financed by IDA are summarized as follows:
Proiect summar (total cost US$22.9 million) 6
1.   Increase the Access  to  Primary Education (focusing on girls' participation)
(US$6.2 million):
- expanding primary school rehabilitation and reconstruction by communities;
- implementing programs to increase girls' participation at primary and secondary
levels;
2.    Inprove the  Quality  and  Efficiency  of Primary  and  Secondary  Education
(US$11.0 million):
- in-service training for primary school inspectors, pedagogic counselors and school
heads, and management training for school heads at the secondary level;
- provision of textbooks and teachers' guides;
6 Includes base costs, contingencies, taxes and duties, as well as US$.380 million PPF refinancing.



11
3.   Improve the Sector Planning and Management capacity (US$5.3 million):
- strengthen sector planning and coordination;
- develop financial and human resources management capacity;
1.   Increase the Access to Primary Education (US$6.2 million)
3.5   This component supports the Government's objectives to increase the gross primary
enrollment rate from 51 percent in 1993 to 59 percent by the 1998/1999 academic year, and the
gross secondary enrollment rate from 11 percent to 14 percent during the same period, and
spread education opportunities more equitably between boys and girls. Preparatory studies are
being conducted through tie ongoing IDA-financed Pre-Investment Project. There are two sub-
components: (a) expand classroom rehabilitation and reconstruction; and (b) support special
measures to increase girls' participation.
3.6   On the basis of an anumal population growth rate of 3.1 percent in 1990, the Govermment
remains committed to a medium term goal of increasing primary and secondary school
enrollments in public schools LAnnex IV). To achieve this, the Government will have to
increase the number of primary school classrooms and teachers by about 4,920 each, and the
number of teachers by about 1,100 at technical and general secondary level during the project
period. Since budget constraints do not allow such an increase in expenditure, the Government
wrvl take measures to improve the cost-efficiency of the existing structures. These measures
consist of: (a) completing the total redeployment of teachers currently serving as administrative
staff, and implementing an intra-sector reallocation of human resources which will provide 421
teachers to secondary schools during the frst three years of the project; (b) developing
multigrade teaching where applicable (in rural areas), which will further reduce the classroom
and teacher needs; and (c) progressively bringing the teacher:student ratio at the primary level
to a maximum of 1:50 in 1999, which will reduce the projected increase of both classroom and
teacher demand by 3,300 each, and from 1:33 to 1:35 and 1:17 to 1:20 at general and technical
secondary levels respectively, which will reduce the requirement of new teachers by 190. The
estimated additional requirement of 1,630 teachers and classrooms needed at the primary level
and 470 teachers at the secondary level to attain enrollment targets will begin in the third year
of the project. At that time, progress is anticipated in the implementation of double-shift and
multigrade systems (see para. 2.19) and in the decentralization of primary education financing
under: (i) an initiative to regularize community employment of teaching staff outside of the civil
service (para. 3.29); and (ii) a program for decentralizing public administration sponsored by
bilateral agencies. Government has also encouraged donors to finance school rehabiltaion and
construction. IDA and other donors have been actively involved in these activities7. The mid-
term review of the project will assess the progress made against monitoring indicators outlined
in Annex V.
'The Emergency Progam of SAL II (Programme d'urgence) and the Social Fund of the Health Services
Development Project provided financing for school rehabilitation.



12
3.7   Given the documented importance of women's education, increasing girls' participation
rates has been adopted as a priority objective for national development. In this regard, the
Government plans to increase the girls' primary school enrollment rate from 36 percent in 1993
to 42 percent in 1999. Since September 1993, girls in rural areas no longer pay school fees at
the primary level. An action plan has been adopted by the Government to increase girls'
participation in primary education. The Government will also increase girls' participation at the
lower-secondary level from 30 percent in 1993 to 40 percent in 1999.
(a) School rehabilitation and reconstruction (US$3.9 million)
3.8   Scope and objectives. The objectives of the Govermnent's primary school construction
and rehabilitation program for the period 1994-1999 are to provide about 202,000 additional
student places to increase the primary enrollment ratio to 59 percent in public schools by 1999.
After implementing all the measures outlined in para. 3.6 for cost-reduction, the Government
will need about 1630 new classrooms over the project period. On-going programs for
rehabilitation and construction of a total of 250 schools (750 classrooms) include those fianced
by tfie European Development Fund, the OPEC Fund and the Islamic Development Bank.
Constructon of classrooms for which no funding has been secured from external aid will be
financed by the communities and the Government, an arrangement that has been demonstrated
to be viable by the history of Benin's education sector. The project will contribute to this
program by: (a) supporting the rationalization of community participation in the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of primary schools; and (b) developing capacity of the MEN to plan and
coordinate school reconstruction and rehabilitation programs.
3.9   Preliminary studies financed by the ongoing Pre-Investment Project have been designed
to create the institutonal capacity to promote and manage community level interventions
through: (a) the development of school building standards; (b) the production of standard
documentation that will include proposals for school infrastructure operations and their
implementation by communities, including maintenance; (c) a nation- wide inventory of primary
school buildings; and (d) a new definition of roles and responsibilities of each party to the
process of school infrastructure improvement.
3.10  Project suport. The project will fnance the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 200
primary schools (600 classrooms). To assist the MEEN in monitoring the implementation of the
new rehabilitation and maintenance process, the project will finance (a) 24 months of local
technical assistance for architectural services; (b) fees associated with contracting the
management of school rehabilitation to non-governmental agencies; and (c) seminars at the
regional level for all parties to school rehabilitation and maintenance. Two study visits to two
African countries where communities are involved in school building are being financed through
the PPF. Communities will continue to be responsible for the regular maintenance of the
schools.



13
(b) Programs to increase girls' participation (US$2.3 million)
3.11 Scope and objectives. Although measures to improve education quality and efficiency
and programs to increase the number of schools will have an indirect but positive effect on girls'
enrollment, the improvement of girls' participation in primary and secondary schools also
requires specific measures. Acknowledging that investment in girls' education translates in the
long run to better infant and maternal health, increases women's labor productivity, and
improves women's employment oppotunities, the Government has placed specific emphasis on
increasing access for girls. To this end, it will undertake pilot interventions in order to design
sustainable programs.
3.12  Project support. To support the Govenument's strategy, the project will fiance activities
to increase girls' participation at both primary and secondary levels. At the pimary level, 18
months of technical assistance will be provided to: (a) conduct a field survey to determine key
factors that positively influence girls' schooling; and (b) following the field survey, design and
monitor pilot programs to increase girls' participation that take into account the results of the
survey. These programs will be implemented in six sub-regions (sous-prefeceures), selected in
regions that have the lowest rate of girls' participation. Adopting this two-pronged approach
will permit: (i) an evaluation of survey findings; (ii) the development of appropriate and targeted
interventions according to survey results; and (iii) an evaluation of the effects and impact of
targeted interventions on increasing girls' participation. In support of the pilot programs, the
project will also purchase 12 small motorbikes (motocyclettes), and finance the incremental
salaries for and the training of 12 motivators (animatrices) during the project period. The
responsibilities of the motivators include the building of community awareness; promoting
icreased girls' participation in primary and secondary education; and participating in the
organization and monitoring of the pilot programs. At the secondary level, six boarding
facilities, in the country, housing 80 female students each, will be built or rehabilitated. This
will increase female participation by 1 to 2 percentage points at secondary school level. The
responsibility for managing the boarding facilities will be delegated to a non-profit organization.
the signature of a contract with the selected organization and the development of ogerational
guidelines for the management of the facilities will be a condition of disbursement for civil
works [para. 6.5 Mal. At both primary and seconday levels, the actions listed above will
provide the Government with information on more efficient and sustainable measures to
implement its policy for increasing girls' participation.
2.    Improve the Quality and Efficiency of Primar, and Secondary Education
(US$11.0 million)
3.13 This component will support the Government's objectives to improve the quality and
efficiency of primary and secondary education. A key element of the Government's reform
program on curriculum reform is the development of curriculum standards and competencies.
The Government is receiving USAID technical assistance to develop a competency-based
curriculum for primary school and criterion-referenced tests to measure the attainment of
competencies. In addition, with the assistance provided by France, the Government has started



14
to develop competency-based curricula for science and mathematics at the secondary level.
Complementing these activities, the project will support two sub-components: (a) the
development of education specialists' capacity to design and develop education inputs through
the training of inspectors and school heads in the design and development of modules for in-
service training and teacher evaluation, and carrying out a study of the examination system; and
(b) providing textbooks at the primary and secondary levels, and training MEN staff on textbook
evaluation and procurement.
(a) In-Service training and improvement of examination (US$1.2 million)
3.14 Scope and objectives. The Government's objectives are to: (a) adopt supervisory
practices which will transform school principals and master teachers as instructional leaders, as
opposed to the sole use of inspectors; and (b) improve secondary school personnel and financial
resource management. Resources for teacher supervision and training will be assured by the
Government budget. The project will support the upgrading of in-service training by retraining
primary school teacher trainers and supervisors, and initiating management training for
secondary school heads. It will also help monitor budget expenditures for teacher in-service
taining and supervision, and will evaluate the impact of the training on teaching quality and
student performance.
3.15 The Government has adopted a reform program on "Student Assessment and Evaluation".
The program includes the restructuring and validation of examinations for certification, selection
and accountability. It also includes the development of a sample-based assessment program for
educational accountability and instructional improvement, as well as systems to monitor student
progression throughout the education system. At the same time, the Government will improve
its management of the examination fees.
3.16 Primary school in-service trainina. In-service training is currently provided once or twice
a month by inspectors and pedagogic counsellors (conseillers pedagogiques) within specific
"units" (unites p&dagogiques, where school directors and teachers meet). Overall, the system
works poorly. Approximately 80 percent of primary school teachers have received initial
professional training but have had neither follow-up training nor supervision. A limited and
theoretical in-service training is provided to teachers, mainly to upgrade credentials rather than
improving the quality of teaching. Those attending the sessions have to pay fees.
3.17 Proiect support. The project will finance, over a five year period, in-country "training
and development" sessions for 120 inspectors, 240 pedagogic counsellors and 2,800 school
heads. Pedagogic counsellors and school heads will ultimately be responsible for on-going in-
service training and bringing new methods, texts, and learning materials to teachers in schools.
A two-week training session will be initially provided during the first year, and will be followed
annually with one-week training sessions. These sessions will lead to the development of
training modules for use by the education officers to provide professional support (supervision
and training) to teachers that will be oriented to actual results in the field. The project will
finance the production of the modules designed with USAID technical assistance. It will finance



15
study visits to other African countries for officials of the Primary Education Department
(Direction de 1 enseignement primaire, DEP), the Secondary Education Department (Direction
de l1enseignement secondaire, DES), the National Institute for Educational Research and
Training (Institut national pour la fonmation et la recherche en education, INFRE), and the
regional education offices (Directions departementales de li 'education, DDE). The latter will be
in charge of implementing this component.
3.18 Examination reform. The project will finance one month each of local and foreign
technical assistance to develop a study of the current examination system and identify reforms
to support its restructuring, including the fee system.
3.19 Training of Secondary school heads: Scope. Objectives and Project supWort. Given the
budgetary constraints at the secondary level projected over the next five years, the management
of teachers schedules and the provision of textbook replenishment and other basic inputs will be
critical. These functions will be the responsibility of secondary school heads. The project will
initiate and finance the first management training sessions for 300 secondary school heads of one
week each year, for two years. Two months of foreign technical assistance will also be provided
to develop the management training module and to train trainers.
(b) Textbook Provision (US$9.8 million)
3.20 Scope and Objectives. The Government plans to adopt competitive bidding procedures
for textbook procurement and distribution. It plans to increase the book:studeLt ratio from its
current level of 1:5 to 1:2 at both the primary and lower secondary levels by the third year of
the project. To ensure the sustainability of textbooks provision, the maintenance and renewal
of the initial stock will be financed jointly by the Government's education budget and by the
parents' associations (APE). In this regard, the Government will organize a sensitization
campaign for the APEs.
3.21  Project support. The project will provide textbooks over a three-year period. To
increase the book:student ratio to 1:2, the project will fuance an initial stock and distribution
of approximately 750,000 textbooks and teachers' guides in two core subjects (French and
mathematics), as outlined in Annex VII. At the primary level, the additional requirements to
compensate for textbook loss and damage, the increase in student enrollment, and the renewal
of the initial stock during the project period will be financed by the Governments's education
budget (see Annex IV). At the lower secondary level, additional requirements and stock renewal
will be tinanced by the Government's education budget, and by the APEs through funds
recovered from the payment of school fees. The procedures for maintaining and renewing
textbook supplies at the lower secondary level will be determined by the schools, and agreed
upon with the APEs. Draft operational guidelines for textbook replenishment will be a condition
for effectiveness [para. 6.4 (e)l and its adoption a condition for disbursement [para. 6.5 (b1.
A nation-wide campaign will be carried out by the MEN to guide the implementation of these
procedures. The project will strengthen the MEN capacity for textbooks evaluation and
procurement. The staff of DEP, DES and INFRE will be trained to evaluate textbooks and



16
establish technical and pedagogic specifications required for international bidding procurement.
Foreign technical assistance is being provided under the PPF for five weeks to develop the
technical and pedagogic specifications of the bidding documents, and to help the Government
in bid evaluation. A study visit of one month each in two African countries has already been
financed under the PPF in order to familiarize the textbook component coordinator with the
textbook procurement process.
3.   Improve the Sector Planning and Management Capacity fUS$5.3 million)
3.22 This component will strengthen the capacity of the newly restructured central and
regional offices of the MEN to plan and manage resources effectively, and to improve
coordination, accountability and quality control. A reorganization of the MEN has just been
imnplemented, following the recommendations of a comprehensive organizational audit of the
MEN (SAL II conditions for second and third tranches, respectively, Annex I). The legal texts
for the reorganization of the MEN have been adopted in 1993 and 1994. Key staff of each
department has been appointed. The Government's reform program plans to reduce the current
number of administrative staff from 3,068 in 1993 to 2,155 by 1999 (Annex IV).
3.23 The reorganization has eliminated a number of redundant pedagogic structures. At the
central level of the MEN, the functions of the Departments of Primary and Secondary Education
have been streamlined to focus on planning and evaluation, while leaving the design and
development functions to the INFRE. As a condition for Board presentation. a Deartment of
Financial Affairs (Direction des affaires flnanciMres. DAF) has been created and its Director
appointed. With the reorganize ion fully implemented, the key management Departments of the
MEN are: (a) the DAF, wh. -. is responsible for all financial management; (b) the DAPS
(Direction de l'analyse, la prevision et la synthese), which is in charge of evaluation, statistics,
organization, and coordination and monitoring of foreign aid; and (c) the DRH (Direction des
ressources humaines), which is responsible for all personnel management. At the regional level,
the six DDEs are in charge of the implementation and adaptation of policy reform measures to
local circumstances, the opening and closing of schools, personnel deployment, design and
implementation of in-service training for and supervision of teachers, and the development of
budget proposals.
3.24 At the central and regional levels, USAID is providing equipment and technical assistance
for budget management, computer training, development of an information system and a system
to periodically monitor educational achievement. IDA's Pre-Investment Project will finance: (a)
the survey of primary school infrastructures; and (b) the completion of the inventory and
evaluation of the MEN buildings and the preparation of the ICB documents for rehabilitation
works. The Government and IDA have agreed on the terms of reference of these studies which
will be carried out during the first year of the project. France is providing technical assistance
to the DAPS and the DAF for budget planning.



17
(a) Planning and programming (US$0.9 million)
3.25 Scope and objectives. This component will improve the capacity of the central and
regio: 1 offices of the MEEN for sector planning and coordination, in addition to activities
financed by USAID and IDA's Pre-Investment Project. It will finance preliminary studies to
define future interventions and reforms in vocational education and training (VET) and in higher
education.
3.26 Projct support. In support of strategic and operational planning, monitoring and
evaluation, the project will assist the DAPS in carrying out: (a) a study of labor-market demand
in order to develop VET interventions in the future; (b) an audit of the National University of
Benin to evaluate its management and academic relevance, including seminars for its faculty
members and students to discuss the results of the audit; and (c) a project mid-term review to
assess the overall progress of how the project is meeting its stated objectives. The project will
also finance training in management for MEN's staff.
(b) Financial and human resource management (US$4.3 million)
3.27 Scope and objectives. This component will improve the capacity of the MEIV, and in
particular the DAF, in budget monitoring, accounting and financial management, and of the DRH
m staff management. The DRH witl develop new procedures for personnel management, teacher
supervision, and a staff development policy linked to skill needs in the sector. Finally, working
conditions will be improved by the rehabilitation of and provision of equipment for MENPs
offices.
3.28  Project support. In order to assist the units under the DAF to carry-out sector budget
monitoring, a total of 4,5 months of technical assistance ana related staff training for the
following activities are being financed under the PPF: (a) building capacity within the MEN for
a more efficient budgetary process by developing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating
revised and uniform pocedures for the projections and the control of budgeting, accounting and
expenditures at all levels; and (b) developing the project accounting and contract management
capacity (para. 4.4). Completion of these activities will be a condition of effectiveness [para.
6.4 Ml.
3.29 The project will support the DRH to effectively manage the personnel of the MEN.
Specifically, technical assistance will be provided by the project to assist in: (a) the development
and implementation of a three-year training program for administrators in the central and
regional offices after reduction and redeployment of administative staff have been implemented;
(b) carrying out a study on, and subsequently developing, a double shift system and multigrade
teaching at the primary level; and (c) conducting a study on and implementing a new recruitment
system for primary school teachers who would not be civil servants. The project will also
finance local staff training in personnel management, study tours, and the annual audits of the
proposed project.



18
3.30 The project will also rehabilitate the dilapidated central and regional offices
(US$1.4 million) and provide them with basic equipment that will render them operational.
IDA's Pre-Investment Project will finance the inventory and evaluation of MENs buildings, and
the preparation of the bidding documents for civil works. As a complement to the equipment
already provided by USAID, the project will also finance office equipment and furniture, and
vehicles for each of the seven central departments.
B. Project Cost and Finacing Plan
3.31 Total project costs are estimated at US$22.9 million (including taxes and duties) with
a foreign exchange component of US$17.5 million (76 percent). Base costs are estimated at
US$19.3 million (84 percent) and contingencies at US$3.6 million (16 percent). The project will
be financed by an IDA credit of US$18.1 million equivalent, representing 79 percent of the total
project costs. The Government's contribution is estimated at US$2.5 million equivalent
(11 percent) of which US$1.4 million equivalent represents taxes and duties. The communities'
contribution is estimated at US$2.3 million equivalent (10 percent). Physical contingencies were
estimated at 10 percent for all project items. Price contingencies for local and foreign costs was
estimated as follows:
Projected Annual Price Escalation (in percent)
IDA FY          95/96      96/97     97/98      98/99     99/2000
Local:           10.9       6.4        3.0       3.0        3.0
Foreign:          2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5        2.5
3.32 Recurrent cost implications. Recurrent costs generated by project investments (mainly
teachers' salaries) will be financed within the budget and their increase will be limited with the
implementation of efficiency measures during the project period. The first important recurrent
cost implication of the project would be the need for an additional CFAF 12.5 billion
(US$21.2 milion equivalent) over five years to fiance the incremental recurrent salaries of
4,920 additional teachers at primary level. At secondary level, incremental recurrent salaries
for 1,100 additional teachers would amount to CFAF 3.7 billion (US$6.3 million equivalent).
Measures to contain these increases include: (a) at the primary level, increasing progressively
the current teacher:student ratio of 1:41 to a maximum of 1:50 by 1999 and developing, where
applicable, multigrade teaching in rural areas as well as a double-shift system in urban areas by
March 31, 1997, which will reduce the additional cost of teachers' salaries by CFAF 4.5 billion
(US$7.6 million equivalent); (b) at the secondary level, the redeployment of 386 teachers
currently in Administration to the classrooms will reduce the additional cost of teachers' salaries
by CFAF 1.3 billion (US$2.2 million equivalent); and (c) at the level of the MEN1, a further
reduction of regular administrative staff (e.g. non-teachers) by 27 percem will provide for an
additional reduction of CFAF 1.8 billion (US$3.0 million equivalent). The total estimated
savings of CFAF 7.6 billion (US$12.8 million equivalent) assume strict enforcement of these



19
measures. Projected savings from these measures will be allocated mainly to primary education
(see Annex IV). The final additional recurrent costs will amount to CFAF 8.6 billion
(US$14.7 million equivalent), representing an average annual increase of the MENF budget
estimated at CFAF 1.7 billion (US$2.9 million equivalent).
3.33 The second important recurrent cost implication of project investments is the cost of
maintaining a growing network of prinary schools in terms of infrastructure. To this end, the
total cost for regularly maintaining the infrastructure of schools, estimated at CFAF 24 million
over four years, will be financed by the communities and through funds recovered from school
fees. The third recurrent cost implication of project investments is the cost of maintaining the
initial stock of textbooks and sustaining a book:student ratio of 1:2 beyond the third year of the
project. This has been included for primary level in the Government's budgets projected over
the next five years (see Annex IV). At lower secondary level, textbook replenishnent will be
jointly financed by the Government (first replenishment) and the APEs (second replenishment).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparatlon.
4.1   Project preparation benefitted from: (a) an intensive dialogue with the Bank, leading to
the conditions in the SAL II operation for establishing the policy and institutional framework for
education development (See Annex I); and (b) several Bank/Government workshops to assist in
policy development, strategic planning, investment programming, and financial planning. Pre-
investment studies were financed by the IDA Pre-Investment Project. Part of the preparation
has also been supported by a PPF advance of US$380,000. Discussions with other donors,
mainly with the Governments of the United States of America and France, were held during the
whole process of preparation, and resulted in close coordination and agreement on both the
strategy to be adopted and the priority programs to be implemented.
4.2   The terms of reference for all technical assistance funded under the project have been
agreed upon during negotiations. The preparation of contracts for consultant services for the
first year of the project will be a condition for effectiveness [para. 6.4 (b)l. A draft
implementation manual has been reviewed during negotiations: its finalization will be a condition
of effectiveness [para. 6.4 (dMI.
B. Project Coordination and Management
4.3   The coordination and management of the project will be carried out by the operational
units of the MEN as part of their functions. The DAPS will be responsible for the overall
coordination and evaluation of this project as part of its normal function of coordinating the
Govermment's overall education reform program and assessing the progress in meeting
development targets. This Department will coordinate day-to-day activities of the project and



20
monitor project implementation and outcomes. The DAPS will also be responsible for the
implementation of activities related to sector planning and education improvements
(i.e. supervision of the examination reform study, and textbook procurement and distribution),
including studies financed by the Pre-Investment Project. The DAPS will follow up with non-
governmental agencies on the management of primary school and the rehabilitation and
construction program of boarding facilities. The DAPS will collaborate with DAF in preparing
anmnal work programs and budgets and will have the ultimate responsibility of compiling and
providing reports and documentation to the Bank as required by the project. It will also
organize joint annual and project mid-term reviews on the status of project implementation, and
prepare for IDA supervision missions. The Director of DAPS will be the liaison of the MEN
with the Bank.
4.4   The DAF will be responsible for all financial matters of the project and will coordinate
with DAPS in the preparation of annual work programs and budgets for all the project
components. A project accountant will be appointed to the DAF to maintain project accounts,
prepare disbursement requests, and make arrangements for audits of project accounts and the
SOEs. A contract manager will be appointed to the DAF to handle all procurement activities,
with the exception of civil works for classrooms and boarding facilities. Finally, the DAF will
assist the DAPS in preparing progress reports and the documentation required for the joint annual
reviews of project implementation as specified in Aemex VIII. It will be responsible for: (i)
implementing the program for financial management; and (ii) reviewing procurement designs and
specifications, obtaining planning approvals, carrying out site supervision, and issuing works and
purchase orders for -the rehabilitation of MEV buildings.
4.5   The DRH will be responsible for ensuring that the set of actions identified for personnel
management and development are implemented. The DEP, DES, and INFRE will collaborate
with DRH in designing and evaluating the in-service training component. The DDEs will
implement and monitor personnel management at the regional level. Under the leadership of
DAPS, which will ensure coordination with DEP and DES, INFRE will be responsible for
preparing the pedagogical and technical specifications for textbooks to be purchased; they will
also participate in the evaluation of bid proposals. Textbook procurement will be carried out
by the procurement unit of the DAF (Annex VII).
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.6   The monitoring and evaluation of program performance, including investments and
policies, wiU be carried out by the implementing units of MEN over the life of the project, with
the DAPS playing a coordinating role. Key monitoring indicators based on Government's
programs (para. 3.1) are shown in Annex V. In its role as project coordinator, the DAPS will:
(a) transmit to IDA progress reports on the implementation of the project not later than March
31 and September 30 of each year; (b) submit annual projected work programs and budgets not
later than October 31 of each year; (c) organize and carry out with IDA, during the fourth
quarter of each calendar year, a review of progress made in carrying out planned activities for



21
the cet  year; and (d) camty out with IDA, a mid-term review to evaluate the progress made
in carrying out the project and the progams no later than 33 months after credit effectiveness.
Based on the review, the AMN will prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA,
for further implementaton of the project activities. The details of the Bank's supervision plan,
including the annual and mid-term reviews, are provided in Anne I[. Within six months
after the Credit closing date, the DAPS wil transmit to IDA a completion report, prepared in
accordance with terms of reference satsfactory to IDA. During negotiations, the Government
has given assurances to IDA that these requirements will be met.
D.  WM Mk tlmi$heule
4.7   The project will be impled over a five-year period (1994-1999). This time period
has been selected based on lessons learned from the Second Education Project and over the
course of the preparation of this project. These lessons are drawn mainly from slow
administrative, decision-making and action-taking processes. The five-year period is also
selected based on the expected outcomes of project activities to build AEN capacity, notably staff
training and professional development. Am= IX provides the framework for implemening
project activities and the basis for planning the physical aspects of project implemenaton. The
disbursement schedule for the Project is provided in Amex X.
Lf P
4.8   Table 1 on the next page summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and
proposed methods of p     t. Procum   management arrangements, including past
performance and proposed improvement, are summaized in paras. 4.9-4.13; and IDA review
procedures are smmarized in para. 4.13. All procurement wihin the project for goods, works
and consultng services will adopt the Bank's Sample Standard Bidding Documents.



22
Table 1: Summary of Proposed Procuremnt Arrangements (US$ millon, Including taxes and duties)
-Procurement Method-
Project Element                                    ICB     LCB       Other      N.I.F.    Total Cost
1. WORKS
(a) Rehabilitation and reconstruction of 200 schools    3.4                              3.4
(2.8)                           (2.8)
(b) Rehab. and construction of 6 Boarding Facilities    0.9                              0.9
(0.7)                           (0.7)
(c) Rehab. of MEN centraURegional Offices       1.4                                       1.4
(1.1)                                    (1.1)
2. GOODS
(a) Vehicles                                    0.3                           0.1        0.4
(0.3)                                    (0.3)
(b) Equipment                                   0.7                           0.1        0.8
(0.7)                                    (0.7)
(c) Furniture                                           0.5                   0.1        0.6
(0.5)                           (0.5)
3. TEXTBOOKS
(a) Textbook Procurement                        6.0                           2.7        8.7
(6.0)                                    (6.0)
(b) Textbook Distribution                               0.8                              0.8
(0.6)                           (0.6)
4. SERVICES (including trainng abroad)
(a) Policy Support                                                0.5 a/                 0.5
(0.5)                 (0.5)
(b) Project Prepatation & Implementation Support                  1.7 a/                  1.7
(1.7)                 (1.7)
(c) Insttioal Development                                        0.5 a/                  0.5
(0.5)                 (0.5)
S. MISCELLANEOUS
(a) Local Training and Seminars                                   1.0 b/                  1.0
(1.0)                 (1.0)
(b) Pilot Program for Girls                                        0.5                   0.5
(0.5)                 (0.5)
(c) Operations and Maintenance                                     1.3                   1.3
(0.8)                 (0.8)
6. PPF REFINANCING                                                    0.4                    0.4
(0.4)                 (0.4)
TOTAL:                       8.4     5.6        5.9        3.0        22.9
IDA:                       (8.1)    (4.6)    (5.4)       (0.0)      (18.1)
Note: Fkures In parentheis are the resnectve amounts to be financed bv IDA. net of taxes and duties. SLieht
differenes may occur as a result of the roundin. of fures.
N.I.F.: Not IDA-Financed
(a)  In accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency, August, 1981.
(b)  In accordance with Government procedures and in compliance with the Inplemnentation Manual to be finalized by credit
effectiveness.



23
4.9   Procurement Procedues
Works: The civil works program, totalling US$5.7 million equivalent, includes (a) the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of 600 classrooms in 200 primary schools; (b) the rehabilitation
and/or reconstruction of six boarding facilities for girls; and (c) the rehabilitation of the centmal
and regional offices of the MEN.
ICB: Contracts for the rehabilitation of five cental and six regional MEN offices
(US$1.4 million equivalent), split in six packages to allow medium size contractors'
participation, will be awarded according to Section II of the IDA Procurement Guidelines.
Domestic contractors will receive a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation. It is expected that
each contract will be equivalent to US$200,000 or more.
LCB: Contracts for the construction and rehabilitation of six boarding facilities (US$0.9 million
equivalent), split by the unit to allow small size contractors' participation and too small and
dispersed to attract bidders from abroad, will be bid by LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
These procedures will at the minimum include local advertising, public bid opening, clarity in
evaluation criteria, award to the lowest bidder, non-exclusion of foreign bidders, and no
preference in bid evaluation for domestic contractors. It is expected that these contracts will be
less than the equivalent of $200,000 each. The management of the rehabilitation and
reconstuction of 600 classrooms, totalling US$3.4 million equivalent, will be contracted through
non-governmental agencies to permit a faster pace of works and a reduction in costs. The
contracts awarded by the agency will be based on LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Gods:
ICB- Vehicles, office and other imported equipment (US$1.1 million equivalent) will be
pmrocred through ICB procedures according to Secion II of the IDA Prcurement Guidelines,
with about 10 contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each. LOcally manufactred goods will
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent (or the amount of customs and duties and
other import taxes, if lower).
LCB: Furniture, materials and supplies (US$0.6 million equivalent) will be procured through
about 15 smaller contracts in which foreign firms wil not be interested. Such contracts, not
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each, will be bid by LCB procedurs, acceptable to IDA.
Textbooks:
ICB: The initial stock of textbooks and teachers' guides for primary schools (US$4.5 million
equivalent) and secondary schools (US$1,5 million equivalent) will be procured through ICB,
according to Section n of the IDA Procurement Guidelines. Domestic productions will received
a 15 percent preference in bid evaluation (or the amount of customs and duties and other import
taxes, if lower). It is expected that each contract will be equivalent to US$50,000 or more.



24
LCB: Services for distributing the inibtal stock of textbooks diuectly to the schools
(US$0.8 million equivalent) will be procured through LCB procedures, acceptable to IDA (see
Annex VI13. It is expected that each of these three contracts (one per year) will be less than the
equivalent of $200,000 each.
Consultant and Other Semces: Management, architectural, procurement, auditing and
various sectoral and technical services (including training), totalling US$2.7 million equivalent,
will be procured in accordance vith principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis
of the #Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency".
Miscellaneous: Consumables, incremental staff salaries, supervision, local training
allowances etc. wil be acquired and paid for following regular Government procedures to be
defined in the Implementation Manual, the finalization of which is a condition for Credit
effectiveness.
4.10  ProcurementManagemnt: Recognizing the limited capacity of the AEN for procurement
management, the Bank has initiated awareness training to key officials of the MEN on Bank
procurement prcedures during project preparation. Staff of the DAF and the DAPS have
participated in a Bank-sponsored procurement workshop (March, 1993). The services of DAF,
responsible for aU procurement with the exception of those related to primary schools and
boarding facilities civil works, wil be strengthened by the appointment and training of a
procurement specialist (paras. 3.28 and 4.4). Furthermore, the specialist recruited by USAID
and the short-erm consultant financed by IDA (4 months) will collaborate with the DAF and
DAPS with a view to building their capacity to develop equipment specifications and other
biddig documents. Assistance from USAID is currently being provided to develop the skils
of the staff of DAF in procuring pedagogic inputs for the primary level. In the proposed project,
non-government agencies wil be contracted to manage the reconstuction and rehabilitation of
200 schools (600 classrooms) and 6 boarding facilities for girls. The procurement specialist will
be aitached to the DAF and wiU be responsible for all procurement, with the exception of civil
works for classrooms and boarding facilities . The DAF will report bid evaluations and contract
award publication, and will review procurement progress in bi-annual reports to IDA.
4.11 I=Mal Pcs: The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), completed in
1985, indicates that Benin's procurement laws and regulations, largely, do not conflict with the
Bank's Guidelines. When Bank/IDA financing is involved, Benin has closely followed the
Bank's Guidelines. Benin's procurement pracdces allow the Bank's procedures to take
precedence.
4.12  Procurement Schedule: The schedule of major procurmnt activities is provided in the
annexed Implementation and Disbursement Schedules (Annexes IX and X). The following
conditions are to be fulfilled:



25
(a)   Development of guidelines for textbook replenishment at primary and lower
secondary levels and finalization of ICB package for textbook procurement agreed
upon with IDA will be conditions of effecdveness;
(b)   Prepared bidding documents, acceptable to IDA, for all major packages to be
procured through International Competitive Bidding during the first year of the
project will be a condition of effectiveness;
(c)   Selected and signed contracts with non-profit organizations and issued operational
guidelines for the management of the boarding facilities for girls wil be a
condition of disbursement for civil works; and
(d)   Signed contracts with non-government agencies for the management and
supervision of civil works related to boarding facilities for girls and classroom
rehabilitation and reconstruction programs will be condidons of disbursement for
civil works.
4.13  Rev    by bv     IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold of
US$150,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process
will cover about 80 percent of the total value procured by ICB and LCB (100 percent ICB; about
50 percent LCB). Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels wil
apply to about one in five contracs. The contracts awarded to non-govermental agencies wiUl
be reviewed by its auditors. Draft stndard bidding documents for LCB wil be reviewed by and
agreed with IDA. All specialist services and training contracts will be subject to IDA's prior
review procedures. All contacts for consultancy and training services estimated to cost
equivalent of US$100,000 or more will require prior review by IDA. AU terms of reference
and all single-source contracts regardless of the value wiU be subject to prior review by IDA.
F. Disbursements
4.14 The project is expected to be completed over a five year-period, with the IDA Credit
disbursed over six years, according to the categories shown in Table 2. The estimated
disbursement profile is shown in Annex X. Disbursement of the Credit will be fuly documented
except for expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent which wiU be made against
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs will be retained
at the DAF for review by IDA supervision missions and for project auditors. To facilitate
disbursement, the Government will open a Specill Account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover
IDA's share of eligible expenditures managed by the DAPS. The authorized allocation for the
Special Account will be the CFAF equivalent of US$0.5 million. IDA will make an initial
deposit of that amount from the proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness and will replenish the
SA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment requests
will be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the SA. Applications



26
for direct payments and reimbursement or requests for special comtments will apply to
contracts above US$50,000 equivalent.
Table 2: Withdrawal of Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Catezorv                           Amounts of the Credit Allocated   percent of Expenditure to be
(in US$ mifllion equivalent)        funaned
(1) Civil Works
(a) Rehabilitation and
reconstruction of 200 schools           2.8                         80 %
(b) Rehabilitation and
construction of 6 boarding
facilities                              0.7                         80 %
(c) Rdeabilitation of MEN offices           1.2                         80 %
(2) Equipment and Vehicles                     1.0               100 % of foreign expenditures
and 80 % of local
expenditures
(3) Furniture                                 0.5                100 % of foreign expendimes
and 80 % of local
expenditures
(4) Textbook
(a) Procrement                              5.0               100 % of foreign expenditures
(b) Distribution                            0.6               80 % of local expenditures
(5) Speciaist Services                        2.2                          100 %
(6) Training                                   1.2                         100 %
(7) Operating Costs                           0.8                          60 %
(8) Pilot Programs for girls                  0.5                          100 %
(9) Refunding of PPF                          0.4                          100 %
(10) Unallocated                               1.2
TOTAL:                           18.1
G. Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
4.15 The DAF will be responsible for the pibject's financial management and will maintain
consolidated project accounts. Project accounts, including the SA, will be audited annuy by
independent auditors acceptable to EDA; all disbursements under SOEs will be audited semi-
annually. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA within three months of the end of each
fiscal year. During negotiations, IDA obtained assurances from the Government that it will
submit to IDA annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, within three months of the
end of the fiscal year and, in the case of the SOEs, that it will submit semi-anmial reports within



27
three months after the end of each audit period. The appointment of an independent auditor
under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1   There are two main benefits. The first benefit will be provision of more and better
education, which in the long term will contribute to poverty reduction. Access to school will
increase, and the primary school gross enrollment rate will raise from 51 percent to 59 percent
during the project period. Girls' enrollment will increase from 36 percent to 42 percent at the
primary level as a result of targeted activities and the increased number of places in the schools,
and from 30 percent to 40 percent at the lower-secondary level as a result of the creation of
boarding facilities. The improvement of female education will in the long run translate to: (i)
better infant and maternal health; (ii) increased women's labor productivity; (iii) improved
women's employment opportunities; and (iv) a better predisposition to adopt measures for family
planning among educated girls and women. The quality of education will be improved through
the rationalization of school building and maintenance and the provision of an initial stock of
textbooks at the primary and lower secondary levels. Improved training and supervision of
teachers by school officers and school heads, pedagogical material availability and better student
examination will increase internal efficiency and improve student learning outcomes. The
second benefit will be the development of capacity within the MEN to plan and manage the
sector more effectively. The development of competent technical and administrative staff in the
newly established structures, better functions and staffing pattern of the MEN, and increased
decentralization of responsibilities for educational planning, management and administration to
the regional education offices will improve systems operations and responsiveness to local needs.
The new primary school building procedures and textbook replenishment at the lower secondary
level will rationalize the participation of communities and strengthen their role in the education
system.
B. Risks and Measures to Address Them
5.2   There are two main risks. The first risk is failure to attain project goals if the budget
allocations for the sector, agreed with the Government and analyzed thoroughly to ensure their
coherence with implications of project components, are not executed. This risk will be
addressed by agreements reached with IDA regiding budget allocation; budget execution will
be monitored and reviewed annually. Moreover, the release of funds for the ongoing USAID
program of budgetary support and technical assistance for primary education is conditioned upon
agreements for budget allocation and execution that are identical to those agreed upon with IDA.
Project activites directed towards establishing a better framework for teacher employment,
including the recruitment of contractual (non-civil servant) teachers for primary schools will be
equally significant in this respect. A second risk is delayed project implementation due to the



28
fact that project implementation goes in paraslel with the development of staff competec and
changes in management behaviors. This re- is addressed by ongoing efforts to match deined
posts with staff profiles, the provision of technical expertise into the sector, the use of tech-
nicl assistance to trsfer skills to staff, and the continuous monitorng and evaluadon to
temove bottlenecks to implementation. Equally significant in this regard is the delegation of
responsibility for managing classroom rehabilitation and reconstruction to non-governmental
agencies.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNDATIONS
6.1   Prior to negotations. the Govermnent has submitted the following documets to IDA:
(a) A letter of sector development policy (Annex l), with monitoring criteria,
and a revised indicative financial plan for recurrent costs for 1994-1999 reflecig
the adjustment of CEAF parity (Annexes IV. V and paras. 2.17, 2.20);
(b) A letter confirming the delegation of responsibility for managing construction
to non-governmental agencies (paras. 2.22, 4.9);
(c) A draft investment program for 1994-96 consistent with policy and program
priorities of the sector (para. 2.20);
(d) A draft Implementation Manual (para. 4.2);
(e) Standard bidding documents for ICB procurement of goods (para. 2.22); and
(f) Standard bidding documents for consultant services (para. 2.22).
6.2 During Negotiations. IDA obtained assurances from the Government that it will do the
ffolQwing:
(a) Adopt procedures, satisfactory to IDA, for a new contractual system for the
employment of non-civil servant teachers for primary schools by March 31, 1997
(paras. 2.19, 3.29);
(b) Submit bi-annual reports on project implementation and outcomes no later
than March, 31 and September'3O of each year (para. 4.6);
(c) Conduct a joint annual review of project implementation, budget allocation for
education, and investment program no later than October of each year; carry out
a comprehensive project mid-term evaluation no later than 33 months after credit
effectiveness (para. 4.6);



29
(d) Submit to IDA annual audit reports of the project and special account within
three months of the end of the Government's fiscal year, and semi-annual audit
reports of the SOE's within three months after the end of each audit period (para.
4.15).
6.3   The Goverment has met the following conditions for Board presentaton:
(a) Created the DAF (para. 3.23); and
(b) Appointed the director of DAF (para. 3.23).
6.4   Al Conditions for Effectveness (September 1994). the Government will have:
(a) Submitted bidding documents acceptable to IDA for all major packages to be
procured through Internatonal Competitive Bidding during the first year of the
project [para. 4.12 (b)];
(b) Prepared contracts for the consultant's services required under the project for
the first year of the project (para. 4.2);
(c) Appointed an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.15);
(d) Submitted the final version of the implementaton mamnal detailing project
procedures (paras. 2.22, 4.2);
(e) Drafted operatonal guidelines for book replenishment by APEs at secondary
level [paras. 3.21, 4.12 (a)]; and
(f) Completed the development of a more efficient budgetary process and of
project accounting and contract capacity, and the relevant training of appropriate
staff, within the MFNV (para. 3.28).
6.5 As conditions gf disbursement:
(a) For civil works, the Government will have:
(i) Selected and signed a contract with a non-profit organization and developed
operational guidelines for the management of the boarding facilities for girls
(paras. 3.12, 4.12 (c)]; and
(ii) Signed contracts with non-government agencies for the management and
supervision of civil works related to boarding facilities for girls and classroom
rehabilitation and reconstruction programs (para. 4.12 (d)l.



30
(b) For textbook procurement and distribution, the Government will have adopted
operational guidelines for textbook replenishment at primary and lower-secondary
levels (paras. 3.21, 4.12 (a)).
Recommendation
6.6  Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 13.2 million (US$18.1 million equivalent) to the Republic of Benin on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



31
BENIN                                                  AIN    I
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                                 Page 1 of I
POLICY MATRIX ON EDUCATION
Policy Area                Issues/Objectives                    Reform Actions               Reforms Actions to Be
Already Taken                Taken Under SAL It
1.  Secto' Strategy       Development of coherent        - Plan for development of        - Adoption of policy and
sector strategy               education sector policy          strategy **
framework.
- Elaboration of compre-
hensive sector strategy,
detailed sub-sector strat-
egies and calendar for
introducing reform in
primary, secondary and higher
education.
It.  Institutionat        Organization and structure   - Initiation of organiza-          - Adoption of decree for
of NInist.y of Education      tional audit of Ministry of       reorganization of
Education.                       Ninistry of Education and
- Completion of organiza-        Implementation of new
tionat audit of Ministry         organizational structure
of Education and agreement       and staffing plan ***
on action plan for imple-
mentation of recommendations.
- lmplementation of recommen-
dation for establishment of
Strategic Management Unit
(ENS) and for decentraliza-
_______________________ -_________________-_______       tion   of   administratlon.       _
Nonitoring of                 - Development of measures to    - Adoption of measures to
teacher/professor             regulate responsibilities,       regutate responsibi-
activities and performance   work schedules and perfor-         lities. work sachedules
mance of teachers ard            and performance of
university professors.           teachers and university
rprofessors
111. Financing            Protect non-wage recurrent   - Establishment of Social
expenditures                  Furd to finance priority
materials and suppies,
including primary school
textbooks.
- Elaboration of a cost-
effective textbook policy.
- Restructure education
budget to increase alloca-
tions for primary level and
rion-wase operations.
IV. Efficiency        Internal savings               - Formulation of a plan for      - Adoption of a plan to
increasing average pupIl-        increase pupfl-teacher
teacher ratios in elementary    ratios in primary
education.                       schools.
Costs of higher education    - Reduction of 1991                - Adoption of a new
and xpxroved litnk uith       scholarships to 1990 levet       scholarship ptlicy"*
ltabor mrket/econoa y needs   and stabilization at 1991        - Adoption of measures to
level starting in 1992.          regulate entrance into
- Development of measures to    the university&*
regulate entrance into the
university.
Secnd Tranche
--- Third Trench



33
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN                ANNEX II-A
ORGANRAMME DU SYfTEME EDUC                  Page I of I
LO
-   9-  U    -     -            -    w   ui
W1         ~~~I VI  I            
U,        E
ri-i ie   <                                           a J 
Aq       11e_    _ _U      - =
K-i    -1~~~<-1
LL-  U. -.                        -           -
.4                                                     w
S-              1-i-      L
~ISAC                       ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR
ss~~   ~~~ .                     f      tr E   RfSINE
BACCALAUREAT-DT-DEAT
Ann9es                   FSAC
Ages          _                                    _      _de
18    Se
H~~~_                _         _                  _     _
17              - __________                 --
15    44
nfl FT__   ___ ____                                               _
6-_V ler ._________.                                           V  CAP
ENSE!GNEMENT-SECONOARE ENSEIGNEMENT PTECIIQUFE
t                ET- PROFESSIONNEL
Concaurs (fentrie en 6
11    6                                              LEGENOES
9    4e~_                                             aiQpI8me terminal
ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE              -Sri
I                       i  PaLssage
2S E---------I                 A
ENSEIGNEMENT l-MATERNEL



34
ANNEX II-B
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ORGANISATIONAL CHART
OF MNISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
DAP   DD   E
UNB CTS    ZNMSO
AP. AttachE de Preas
CBRST: Centu Bdnnois de Is Recheiche Scmietfique at Technique
CC: Chef de Cabinet
CNPMS: Centre National de Productio de Manue Scolairc
DAC: Directewr Adjoin de Cabinet
DAP: Directon dea Affair. Financibres
DAPS: Direction do l'Analse de la PiEveition at de la SynfiiAs
DBED: Directon des Bourses et des Equivalence, do Dipl6Oma
DC. Directeur de Cabinet
DDE: Directons D6pareteentales do I-Education
DEC: Direction des Exman et Coacour
DEP: Direction do l'Enseigneumet Primair
DES: Direction do 1'Euseisnemmnt Secondaire
DEWP: Direction des Emseignemnents Technique et Profassiowne
DRH: Directon des Resources Humaines
lOS: Insection Gd&enrl des Smervcs
MMPB: Justitut Nationa pour la Formation at Ia Racherche en Education
OB: Office du Bsocalaurdat
SM  Secrdtiia Administratif
SF:. Secrdtariat Pailiculier
UNB Universitd National du B&zin



35
ANNEX II-C
EDUCATION DATA                                  PRIMARY EDUCATION
EUGIONS                      199041991                         1991-1992                          1992-1993
| F        w              F       F         lowF %F  F  |oDal  %F
Atacora           11408       42669        26,74     13750    48320        28.46     15468       53644        28.83
Atlantique        51214       127440       40,18    53838    134131        40,1      82015       172278       40
Borgou            15655       46395        33,74     18873    54617        34,56    21354        60903        35.06
Mono              12574       49626        25,34     16239    66401        24,46    21406        82079        26.08
Gueme             33757       104500       32,3      37639    112015       33,6      42831       129483       33,08
Zou               25532       79238        32,22    n.a.      90522        n.a.      35025       102454       34,13
I BENIN             150140      449868       3337         n5a    0 6006    | 30,74    218099       600841       36,3
LOWEVR SECONDARY EDUCATION
REGIONS          _            1990-1991                         1991-1992                       1992-1993
|P   _     tobl  _TX%F             F           Total       %F        F        Total      %F
A _o_aS583                    3118        18,7        632         3437       18,39    782        3842      20,35
Adiandque     1    .a.        22395       na.         n.a.        23185      n.a.      10191    27484    37,08
Borgou            1351        5472        24,69       1502        5662       26,53     1740      6499      26,77
Mono              807         4388        20,21       1143        6002       19,04     1194      6423      18,59
Ou6m6             u.a.        n.a.        nLa.        4316        13576      31,79    4663       14506    32.15
Zoo               1917        8792        21,8        2072       9520        21,76   1 2502      10893    22,97
BENIN             n-a-        n.a.        21.39                   6132         .3      21072  | 69647    30,25
UPPER SECONDARY  DIUCATION
| REGIONS                    1990-1991         II          1991-1992                      1992-1993
[_______ JpF    [tDa  I%F   F ITotl ~%F                                               Total   %F
Atacora           45         477     9,43       49        530        9,25       56       644      8,7
A|antiqu          n.a.       5791    na..       n.a.      6073       n.a.       2000     7427     26.9
Borgou            105        1144    9,18       168       1282       13,1       232      1459     15,9
Mono              60         706     8,5        116       858        13,52      135      1060     12.74
0u6m6             nsa.    |na.    n.a.         728        3215       22,64      787      3559     22,11
Zou               270        2085    12.95     238        2234       10,65      368      2714     13,56
BENI9DN         |  na.     [n.a.        9      na.    114192  |16               3578   116863   21.22



37
A,X 
Page 1 of 6
REPUBUQUE DU BENIN
MINJSTERE DE L'EDUCATION
NATIONALE
CABINET DU MNISTERE
DIRECrION DE L'ANALYSE, DE LA
PREVISION ET DE LA SYNTHESE
LITRE DE POLITIQUE GENERAL.
DU SECTEI1R EDUCATION
ET PLANS D'ACTIONS
I -  ORlTTONGNRL
Ie Gouvernement de la R6publique du B6nin a toujours privilEgiE le secteur de
I'Education dans sa strat6ie de d6veloppement.
Apr*s la tenue des Etats Gdneraux de l'Education en octobre 1990, le
Gouvernement b6ninois a adopt6 en janvier 1991 un 'Document Cadre de Politique Educative":
qui consigne les nouvelles orientations de la r6forme du systbme educatf.
De maniere g6ndrale, 1'Ecole bdEinoise a d6sormais pour objectifs:
- de former des adultes sans cesse performants, dotEs d'esprit d'initiative, ayant
le goat de la recherche, capables de slauto-employer, de cr6er des emplois et de contribuer ainsi
efficacement au d6veloppement du pays;
- de former des adultes tchniquement comp6tents et humt quilibrs;
- de senir de moyen de tnnsformation globale de la socit, permettant i tous
les niveaux une Education/fornation pertnente et accesible, ainsi qu'une scialisation continue
de la nouvelle politique Educative pouvant se resumer ainsi qu'il suit:
1.1   Enseiefnementprimai: -son renforcementet son dEoppementconstituent
la priorite des priorit6s, car la Constitution du 11 dEcembre 1990 lui confre un cacttre
obligatoire. II s'agit en l'occurrence d'offrir un enseignement pimaire de qualitE I tons leI
enfants en Age scolaire. Cela implique que des mesures et des actions aussi urgentes que
rationnelles soient prises, en vue d'eliminer progressivement les obsacles qui entravent la
rfalisation de l'objectif d'une scolarisat  universele.



38
ANNEX m
Page 2 of 6
Cet effort de gendralisation de 1enseignement primaire se ferm selon une logique
susceptible de favoriser la mise en oeuvre de strategies visant a corriger les disparites de
scolarisation entre les regions d'une part et les sexes d'autre part.
A l'horizon 2000, le taux de scolarisation pourrait atteindre 70 %, dont 60 %
environ dans le secteur public et 10 % dans le secteur prive, ce qui constitue un objectif
inteimaire.
1.2   Enseignement secondaire : l'option d'une formation generale a ce niveau
est maintenue dans une perspective d'amelioration de sa qualite. It sera ouvert davantage aux
innovations techniques axees sur la pratique, de maniere a developper chez I'elve des aptitudes
techniques, voire manuelles.
Par ailleurs, des mecanismes appropriks seront mis en oeuvre, en vue de r6guler
les effectifs scolaires, d'orienter les eleves et de garantir une gestion efficace et optimale des
6tablissements.
1.3   Enseignement technique et prfessionnel : deuxieme priorit6 du systeme
educatif, 1'enseignement technique et professionnel devra former a l'auto-emploi, en privilegiant
les filieres porteuses. Une attention particuliere sera accordee a la promotion des Centres de
Formation Professionnele dont l'approche de formation, contrairement I la logique de
l'enseignement technique classique, vise a developper des aptitudes k l'exercice d'un medtier.
L'enseignement technique doit aussi se rapprocher autant que possible, des rdalites de l'emploi
et des besoins de l'economie nationale, avec un accent particulier sur la rehabilitation et la
revalorisation de l'apprentissage traditionnel, ainsi que la promotion des technologies
traditionnelles. Globalement, il s'agit de conferer au systeme de formation technique et
professionnelte la comp6tence, la competitivite, la creativit6, l'esprit d'initiative et autres
aptitudes au travail productif, et qui atlient judicieusement au cours du cursus, la formation a
l'ecole et l'apprentissage du travail de production en entreprise.
1.4 Enseignement superieur: il sera oriente vers l'amelioration de la qualite
des etudes, dans l'optique d'une meilteure adaptation aux exigences du developpement et des
besoins de l'Wconomie nationale. La recherche scientifique et technique sera renforcde. Le
Gouvemement veillera a la regulation et I la maitrise des effectifs des etudiants aux fins d'une
rationalisation de la carte universitaire. 11 s'agira notamment de mettre en oeuvre une politique
de reduction des co(its unitaires de l'enseignement sup6rieur, garantissant une formation de
qualit6 et integrant les perspectives d'expansion de la formation universitaire.
II -   STRATEGIES DE MISE EN OEUVRE
Le contexte actuel de developpement du systeme 6ducatif est caractrs  par les
contraintes budgetaires du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel. Dans ce contexte, les strategies
retenues se prdsentent comme suit:



39
Page 3 of 6
2.1 D'un point de vue gdaAnWl les actions envisagees dans le cadre de la
remise en etat du systbme visent A tous les niveaux:
- le renforcement de la qualit6 de l'enseignement;
- la rehabilitation de l'appareil institutionnel:
- la maitrise des cotets de l'Mducation.
2.2 Pour I'enseignement rmaire, il s'agira entre autres:
- d'identifier des mecanismes susceptibles d'eliminer les entraves I la
scolarisation des enfants en age scolaire, singu}ierement des files;
- d'assurer la qualification des Mats, par la miise en oewre d'un progamme
de formation continue, de recyclage et de formation initiale adaptee aux exigences des
programmes d'enseignement et des innovations technologiques;
- de rechercher des modalites d'un financement optimal, par la diversification
des sources de financement;
- de dynamiser le Corps de ContrOle par des inspections p6riodiques dans les
6tabllssements scolaires et la mise A disposition de moyens addquats.
2.3   Pour 1'enseignement secondaire ral, il s'agira:
- de renforcer la sdlection i 1'entre de chaque cycle;
- d'etudier les conditions objectives de construction ettou de rEhailitation des
lycees, a'nsi que de leur fonctionnement.
2.4   Pou rl'etn                              la pofessiomaLisationdes
fllires constitue l'objectif cardinal, en ce qu'elle permettm d'as    la promotion d'une
fomation I l'auto-emploi. Le Gouvenement veillera 6galement:
i) a rationaliser et a consolider lea fiL2res d'onseignemont
ii) I redefinir les progammes et les profils de formation pour miou  les
adapter aux exigences technologiques, aux besois de l'economie et du ddeloppement;
iii) & promouvoir la participation technique et financitre du sectur priv;
iv) a introduire dans les programmes de toutes les filieres des cours paiques
d'initiation & la gestion des entreprises.
2.5   Pour l'enseignement suErietr il convient:
i) de reguler les flux intemes et de mattiser les nouvelles inscriptions par la
s6lection et l'orientation universitaire;
ii) de mettre en place un nouveau systeme de bourses permettant d'encourager
les Etudiants les plus jeunes et les plus meritants;
iii) de rationaLiser les ressources budgetaires, en vue d'atteindre un meilleur
6quilibre dans leur affectation.
Toutes ces strategies seront soutenues et mises en oeume par une vingtaine de
plans d'actLons couvrant differents domanes de la rdformes du systeme educatif au BEnin.



40
ANNE m
Page 4 of 6
m - PLAN D'ACTIONS
En application des grandes orientations et des strategies qui les sous-tendent, des
plans d'actions pour la mise en oeuvre de la r6formes du syst6me educatif qui intagrent les
differents parametres de l'offre et de la demande sociale d'education ont ete 6abords et
recouvrent trois volets qui sont la pedagogie, la planification et la reforme institutionnelle.
Les objectifs fondamentaux vis6s dans la mise en oeuvre de ces plans d'actions
de la reforme de l'enseignement sont:
i) I'amelioration de la qualit6 de l'enseignement a tous les niveaux;
ii) I'augmentation des chances d'acces A l'ecole, en priorit6 dans les primaire;
iii) l'accroissement des performances dans l'appareil administratif et institutionnel.
Pour ce faire, les mesures prises sont les suivantes:
3.1   Dans g'enseignm-u prmaire, les projections d'effectifs indiquent que nos
dcoles compteront environ 221.000 enfants de plus entre 1994 et 1999, ce implique a terne la
disponibilit6 d'un minimum de 2.000 salles de classes supplementaires pour un ratio de
50 6leveimattre en moyenne par classe. Dans cette perspe tive, le Gouvernement envisage de
rechercher auprbs de ses partenaires au d6veloppeir at, bilat*raux et multilateraux, le
financement necessaire pour la construction de 1.500 nouvelles salles de classes, notamment a
l'occasion de la r6union de la Table Ronde du Secteur Education pr6vue a Cotonou, courant
premier semestre 1994. Parallelement a cette action, le Ministere de l'Education Nationale
envisage de faire rdaliser:
- une etude de faisabilite pour la mise en place du systeme a double flux dans
les ecoles a effectifs pl6thoriques des zones urbaines et du systeme multigrade dans les 6coles
a effectifs parficulierement r&luits dans certaines zones rurales;
- une etude de faisabilite pour la mise en oeuvre de solutions alternatives pour
le recrutement d'enseignants sous contrat, en dehors de la fonction publique.
Les resultats de ces etudes seront exploitds en vue du d6veloppement de ces systemes.
En attendant, le Ministere de l'Education Nationale poursuivra les efforts en
cours, en vue d'achever le red6ploiement des instituteurs d'ici la rentr6e scolaire 1994-1995.
Quant a l'am6lioration de la qualite de l'enseignement, les mesures suivantes sont
retenues, a savoir:
- la mise en oeuvre d'un processus de r6forme des programmes et des methodes
d'enseignement;
- la mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel et structurel approprie susceptible
de favoriser la formation en cours d'emploi des Enseignants, des Conseillers PMdagogiques, des
Diecteurs d'dcoles et des Inspecteurs;
- la conception et la mise en oeuvre d'une politique editoriale rdaiiste qui assure



41
ANNEX m
Page 5 of 6
une disponibilite de manuels scolaires et de matdriels didactiques i co(t reduit. A cet effet, et
a court terne, le ratio eleve/livre pourrait 6tre porte k un (1) livre de lecture et un (1) de calcul
pour deux (2) 6IOves dans le primaire. Cela entrainera l'achat et la distribution au benefice dans
Elbves, des Maitres et des personnels de l'encadrement p&dagogique d'environ 617.200 manuels
dans le primaire.
- le contr6le des connaissances des eleves sur une base harmonieuse entre les
programmes d'enseignement et les epreuves d'examen, afin de garantir que tout sortant de
l'ecole a tous les niveaux d'enseignement possede effectivement le niveau requis;
- la deffition des normes d'une ecole de qualit6 fondamentale dans le primaire
et l'etablissement d'un programme d'urgence d'6levation des Ecoles existantes i ce niveau de
qualit6.
Dans le sens de l'extension de la scolarisation dans le primaire, il sera proc6dd
dans l'immediat A:
- une 6tude socio-6conomique sur les facteurs limitant la demande sociale
d'education en g6neral;
- 1'identification, a partir des rdsultats d'etudes existantes et futures, des actions
pilotes, telle que I'exoneration des filles des droits d'6colage dans les 6coles primaires publiques
en milieu rural, et leur mise en oeuvre en we de promouvoir la scolarisation et la participation
des files;
- la rehabilitation ou la reconstruction de 600 salles de classes dquip6es en
mobilier dans 200 6coles.
3.2 Dans 1'enseignement secondaire g    ln6raI, I'objectif essentiel a atteindre dans
1'immediat est d'am6liorer la qualit6 de 1'enseignement et le rendement scolaire, afin de
permettre un accroissement raisonnable. A cet effet, un accent particulier sera mis sur:
- le renforcement des equipes pedagogiques de l'Institut National pour la
Formation et la Recherche en Education (INPRE) chargees de la renovation des programmes
d'enseignement;
- la formation en cours d'emploi des Enseignants, des Conseillers Pedagogiques,
des Chefs d'Etablissements et des Inspecteurs;
- la mise en place d'un systeme de renouvellement des manuels scolaires par les
communautes;
- la dotation des Lyc6es et Colleges en manuels scolaires et en mat6riel
didactique; dans ce cadre, il est envisage l'acquisition et la distribution d'environ 130.400 livres
au secondaire, des enseignants et des personnels de l'encadrement p6dagogique.
- la r6habilitation I terme des infrastructures scolaires;
- la construction et 1'equipement en lits de six (6) foyers d'h6bergement des
files d'6tablissements secondaires, en vue d'augmenter leur participation, dans un contexte de
gestion privde;



42
ANNEX1
Page 6 of 6
3.3   Dans l'enseignement technique et professionnel, il s'agit:
-  de realiser une etude sur les filibres porteuses dans 1'enseignement technique
et la formation professionnelle;
- de redefinir les programmes d'enseignement, afin d'adapter les profils de sortie
aux exigences du marche de l'emploi;
- d'assure une meilleure formation initiale des enseignants, tout en mettant en
place des mecanismes de formation continue et de recyclage;
- de rendre fonctionnels les ateliers dans les Iycees techniques et les ecoles de
formation professionnelle.
De plus, des mesures seront prises pour reequilibrer les flux entre l'enseignement
secondaire g6nral et l'enseignement technique et professionnel.
3.4   Dans le cadre de la reforme de l'enseigement supre, il sera rdalis6 un
audit pedagogique, financier et de gestion de l'Universitd Nationale du B6nin, afin d'elaborer
un plan d'actions de mise en oeuvre des recommandaticns qui en seront issues.
3.5   Sur le plan de la planification, il sera developp6:
- un systame d'information efficace qui facilite les prises de decisions
rationnelles et un pilotage efficient des activites du secteur;
- un processus de mise en place et d'exploitation d'une carte scolaire;
- des actions pour le renforcement des capacites de planification et de gestion
des ressources : rehabilitation et equipement des bureaux de l'Administration centrale et
d6partementale, formation administrative).
3.6 Sur le plan de la reforme institutionnelle et organisationnelle, il s'agira:
- de mettre en application les textes relatifs a la restructuration du Ministere de
l'Education Nationale et ceux des organismes sous-tutelle, dans le sens d'une d6concentration
et d'une d6centralisation des fonctions de gestion pedagogique, administrative et financiere;
- de renforcer les capacites de suivi et d'evaluation du systeme educatif dans son
ensemble;
- de developper un cadre financier traduisant la politique et les strategies en
termes budgetaires;
- de mettre en place des proc6dures de budgetisation et de gestion financiere qui
prennent en compte la decentralisation des responsabilit6s et les contributions des parents
d'leves, ainsi que des procedures efficaces d'exdcution et de controle budgetaires;
- d'etablir periodiquement le compte economique de l'education;
- de d6finir de nouvelles modalit6s de participation financiere du public aux
charges Educatives;
- de mettre en place les differents mecanismes susceptibles de susciter la
participation du public au processus de la reforme.



FINANCIAL PLAN (1994-1999)                         MARCH 10, 1994
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
____________ _  (AFTER DEVALUATION)
______________________              __       -        -PAST  _CURRENT  UPR                            -       --
1989    1990    1991    1992        1993 10'4994   A                  "I        18       0
I. SALARY PROJECTIONS                                                                        ,,
A. PRIMARY SCHOOL                                                                      >
Public
No. of Students                        463.153  418,272  473,217  514,558   547,957      ,   6Z1,01  855A04  887t753  718,387  74A.61,
Student/Teacher Ratio                       34       31       36       40       41 .         W        P (- 45      47       49       5 c
Gross Enrollment Ratio                     50%      43%      47%      50%      51%      5   --A.v  4%   ..7%               58%
Teachers                                 13,821   13,693   13,168   12,956    13,219                                    . s  1t,702  '$t7 -4,801   14,787. 1s,11 R
Salary on milions CFAF)                   8,417    8,764    8,019   10,090    10,295                       p sj4 8, 12,5ppB  12.6Q   1ZO
Private                                                                                       4    0:
No. of Students                                    21001   16812   22252    31785                   0                            "8~6,4  235 9,549'~
Teachers                                             688     468      580       767                     M          44?     10
I  4:-
S. SECONDARY GENERAL                   |3 
Public 
No. of Students                          71,139   71,478   72,256   73,891    76,726                                   - 1   9?   1  104,885  111.191
StudenVt/Tacher Ratlo                        1,    3529                 033
Gross Enrollment Ratio                     12%A    12%       11%      11%      11%                     1                     A1 1%  2  3  114%
Teachers                                  3.894    3,926    2,531    2,497    2,345                        1 ".  '2 17 ,   708   2,991    3.108
Overtime for Cons. P_d. by teacher (CFAF)                               0    7,680 lg  .4   :0,448    6,448    p.44>
Overtime for Cons. P_d. (in millons CFAF)                              60       50                                 ' ,. 4    ;   .  24  25
Salary (tn milions CFAF)                 3,516    3,730    2,285    2,5CJ    2.349 ;    g                  4   ,a4Q    3so    34S:
Private
No. of Students                                                               7, 13  15  16  17    7                     10,488   11.192z
Teachers                                                                       2 34      299 2                                       D°
C. SECONDARY TECHNICAL
Public
No. of Students               ~~~~~~~3,438    3,438    3,581    3,723  3,967  4.>47    4O      4A4~    ,8i    ~8         ,2- '
Teacher/Student Ratio                       13       13       15      16        17  .'y1H1  17                     la'      tO    ..21        :
Gross Enrollment Ratio                      1%       1%       1%       1 %      1%           4i%         $% - 1%%                    1%
Teachers                                   284      264      242     239       233                 7.   20    .1.          270      7.       -
Salaiy(inmillionsCFAF)                     241      253      221     237       231  &               $   ,       ; 20    >0         2 .      n
Pdvate
No. of Students                           1.375    1,375    1,432    1,489    1,587                             'A       28 2:Q>  .   '.213
Teachers                                   10        0        9Q6936 k



FINANCIAL PLAN (194-1999)                         MARCH 10, 1994
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
____________________________                                  AFTER DEVALUATION)                         _=      -_              _.__
_____________________________        ~PAST            _   __ CLIRRENT,~.
~~i~~~i   A'  :       171997    19        Q9
_DO. UtN\iVERSUlY                         1989    1990    1991    1992        1993 '                            -
No. of Students                          8.001    8.001   10,873   10,873   10.500 ,           , -'p, r2    8,200   8.,05  t 7,iqo*i§
Student/Teacher Ratio                       13       14       20      20        20                17  7-  7       17      ' 1la,
Gross Enrollment Rato                       1%      1%       2%       2%       2%  1'>""1%       e  .;7,  1%      1%      1%    '1%'
Teachers                                   615      572      557     550       525 !       a5;           49 4490          490     400O
Salary (n millions CFAF)                 1.207    1.178    1.093    1.169    1,116   <.  't 10    1.146    1,146    1,146    1.146
TOTAL NO. OF TEACHERS                    18,594   18,455   16,498   16.242   16,322  0:04 *     ,* .   t7484   18,159   18,518   19.060'
TOTAL SALARY nm mIIlions CFAF):          13,382   13.s25   11,619   14.004   13,990    6      1500    8.7 16M           14    I
E. PERSONNEL IN ADMINISTRATION                                                      '         .. ',.
Teachers                                     ...      ...  1.228    1,215    1,086                                         OD,, p9" 70  0  0  700,
Adrainistrators                              ...      ...  2,191    2.157    1,982                                                M 8  46  t    1,4S55    1.5
Salanes of Teachersm.                                 ...    71       87        40           <6       '.24        524      24      54 
Salaries of Administrators                   ...      ...  1,376    1,469    1.349 4I.0 $'                      1.090    1,090    1,090 
TOTAL PERSONNEL IN ADMINISTRATION:            ...     ...  3.419    3,372    3,068 ." .7 .      4.9   T55j   2.6i5 
TOTAL SALARY 6n milrions CFAF):         1J01   1.064    2147   . 2,296    2,089                                  .1 04    1.614 ,.614l
TOTAL PERSONNEL/SALARY EXPENDITURE                                                  .                .
Total Staff and Teachers:  ...     ...  19.917   19,614   19.390                7 1*.511 2p,039   20.314  20.671  Z1,i15
Total Salary In millons CFAF):  14,453   14,989   13,766   16,300   16.079  17,7Q  7  . s 1:i3?8         . 1P,955   12407
Pecnt Growth: -        3.71%  816% 14%           -.5        7%~,2         .27%,.j%           ~      -27%
Parce  _-_8.16%   18.41%   -1.35%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0 x



FINANCIAL. PLAN (I1994-1999)                         MARCH 10. 1994
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
____________________________                    ~~~~~~~      ~     ~~(AFTER  NEAUA )
_____________________________          ~~~PAST         ICURREN 
____________________________     ~~1989    19901   1991      1992      1993      99-         G~9   .  19             19   ~10
II. NON-SALARY EXPENDITURES:
A. PRIMARY SCHOOL
Pedagogic MatedIals                           ...       ..
NornVpupil (in CFAF)                          ..       ..      39      352       553         ~~              ~       4?~ 8             4
Cost (in millions CFAF)                      51       52       18a     181       303Z$                                                21
Training and Prof. Dav. 
Cost On millions CFAF)                       ...      ...       357              100  ~~4                              4~ 7 
Cosd of Examinations                                                                        3 
Norm/pupil (m CFAF)                           ...     ...    363       341       350              ~~'   9
Cost (in mfillons CFAF)                      ...      ...    172       168       168                                       . __
Administration & Other Costs 
Norm Oin CFAF)                                                                                                        A       ,'
Cost (in millions CFAF)..                             ..                 ~f                      &'                                   "b
TOTAL PRIMARY:        51       52      193      408       571                             114441       99$
S. SECONDARY GENERAL                                                                                                
Pedagogic Materials                                      ~; ~  
Norm/pupil (in CFAF)                          ..      .J         ..    5,700                            
Cost (in millions CFAF)                     132      289        8                 17 '1                               8             ~
Training and Prof. Dev.                                                                            f  , 
Norm/teacher (in CFAF)                       ....     ....     ....     ....   7,700   17
Cost (in millions CFAF)                      ....     ....     ....     ....       0 
Norm/pupil (in CFAF)                         ....     ....  4.654   .4.551     4,500                 ~~U
Cost (in millions CFAF)                      ....     ...    338       160       160
Admfinistration & Other Costs                                                                               Y$. . '0
Cost (in millons CFAF)                       ....                                 20 
TOTAL SECONDARY GENERAL:    132  2ii'    342  164  197                                                  t-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,



FINANCIAL PLAN (1994-1999)                         MARCH- 10, 1994
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
____________________________                  (AFTER DEVALUATION)
_      ~~~~PAST           -      URN                                        -         
___________________________________ I1989-  1990  1991     1992      1993   o
C. SECONDARY TECHNICAL4
Pedagogic Materials
Normlpupd (in CFAF)                                  ...  4,468    3,680   21.134                             258 
Cost (in millions CFAF)                                                                                      '.:V 4
Training and Prof. Dev. 
Norm/teacher an CFAF)                      ....  ....        ....OOOQ1OO)0(
Cost (On millions)...                                .. 
Cost of Examinations                                                                                   TA
Norm/pupil Oin CFAF)                       ....     ....     0        0                                                 8.PO
Cost (in millions CFAF)                                      0        02                                 235
Administration & Other Costs 
Norm (in CFAF) 
Cost (in millions CFA                      ...      ....              15       151                                                       ~
TOTAL SECONDARY TECHNICAL:         24       54       16       37       40                                             
0. UNIVERSITY                                                                         ,.                    V      '
Pedagogic Materdals 1/                                                                                           f
Norm/pupil (in CFAF)                       ....     ....     ....               0             4Opj49Q . j~4a 1400 1
Cost (in millions CFAF)                     1        2        1         
Training and Prof. Dev.                                                                                                 1 j
Norm/teacher (in CFAF)                                                                                         '
Cost (m millionts)                                                                                     p
Cost of Examinations 11                                                                                  '
Norm/pupit (in CFAF)                       ....     ....     0        0         0                                      1~0
Cost (in milUons CFAF)                     ....     ....     0      269       269                  ~>,j                           -J
Administration & Other Costs I/ 
Norm (in CFAF)
Cost (in millions CFAF)                                              433      498 §'~             ~~
TOTAL UNIVERSITY:        1       2         1      702      767           07                   904    -902,
E. ADMINISTRATION                                                                            A .   4
Administration Centfale                                                167       383 x'8          fG 06    380    538       53       536~
Administration Technique                                                83       177                      244  ~   8  245   248     248 ,
Administration Regionale                                                28        35    499                49       4        49      49     -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS:        28       3971   553 *j1,31        1,575   4820      028,            3,54 9 8    51    59I??



FINANCIAL PLAN (1994-1999)                           MARCH 10, 1994
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
(AFTER DEVALUATION)
PAST                    CURRENT  7 P          T w                                - .
.__________________________________          1989     1990     1991          1992 1993  X               S              l        l         tot
I TRANSFERS                                  1        1,56     1         17
A. SCHIOLARSH-IPS AND FINANCIAL AID:                  ~~~~.~,~~''"
Scholarship~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "'n                                        s.g:.:'.kS: e .;,  ,i'~ ;,s/ '  :~   .   :      '  
SECONDARY TECHNICAL                                                                       .,-
~~~~~~~ B
TOTAL SECONDARY TECHNICAL:           149      147       97       45        84                  ~'                             ..
HIGHER EDUCATION                                                                                      .   
Scholarships. Financial Aid. Subsidies    1,416    1.418    1.328    1,482      1.558  T'i'~3'  J74~,t', 174                 1~l       4714
TOTAL HIGHER EDUCATION:   1.416    1.416    1.328    1,482          1.558                                                 I TM..  34 11.    174 1,1  .1
OTHER TRANSFERS                                                                                                  _W~~'17 
Gluts' Education - Primary 2/                                                       0~'1?                     1810-
Girds' Education - Secondary 2/                                                     0        ~       '1      ,.~               ~
B. PRIVATE SUBSIDIES:                                                                                     .,N'3
Primary Eduf~ation       ...      ..........                                                                          3 3
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
Secondary Education                           ...      ...      ...       ...       0             . 6         U7e.                      ,
TOTAL PRIVATE SUBSIDIES           ...     ...      ...       ...       0      14       21       g ~ 3              7
TOTAL TRANSFER:   1,565    1,563    1,425    1,527        1,643    101~~8~ 7                    ,2       ,7       2~ 
TOTAL NON-SALARY EXPENDITURES:   1,773    1.960    1,978    2,837           3,218    081      ''0O     732      7.821    7.910    0,220 
1  (includes Operating Costs and Transfers)    -                  
sI0<
-1 



FINANCIAL PLAN (1994-1999)                           MARCH 10,1994
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
(AFTER DE ALUATION)
PAST _          _        CURRENT -`          CTED  --R
_______SUMMARY___________________             1989     1990      1991     1992      1993               919               1997     1o9o  t4  !
SUMMARY                                                                                                       . 
TOTAL EDUCATION BUDGET:                     16,226   16,949   15.743   19,137    19,297       7      4       2,668   26,224   26,865   27.0SG i
of which:
Salary Expenditure:                      14.453   14,989   13,766   16.300    16,079 -          :17,84   18,32   '19803   18,955  .19487
Non-Salary Expendture:                     208       397      553    1,310     1,575 W   ORi        .. ....: '8*299   i,499    $.732 - .
Transfers:                                1.565    1,563    1.425    1,527      1,643             v                          '2.178
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY:                    | 1
Salary                                     14,453   14.989   13,766   16,300    16.079  j~q~M                I3~, 983 1,5                Q47
As % of Ed. Budget                           89|%X    88%      87%       85%       83%        %    0                     %       71%   ':7
Non-Salary                                   208       397      563    1,310      1,575          ' 2 -.Zt, Sitt        5'9 5,73  -.              i
As %of Ed. Budget                              1%       2%       4%       7%        8%                                           . 21
Trarnsfers                                  1.55 12.563    1.425    1.527         1,643.60%I    ZP4 16         17?    124       2476   1t4       o
As % of Ed. Budget                            10%       9%       9%       8%        9% |  2.6% |3 2% |  2.8% |   2% |  2.
SUB-SECTOR ALLOCATION:
Pitmary Education                            9,378    9,720   10,038   12,448    12,842  ,~I8P    ~Iq~,P89 19.929   17.243  ,?7q
Secondary General                            3,788    4,157    2,908    2,971      2,817                                                    "I42w~Z,49,40  e~  .9    3
Secondary, Technical                          425       465      355      342       378 "'                                344  ~   .4-  74    3
Higher Education                             2,635    2,807    2,444    3,377      3,462  ~~~Q'~ ~~73                   370      $77      $75
TOTAL EDUCATION SPENDING:                   1628 16.949   15,743   19,137    19,297    4'7           49      '5*8,,24   26,68    78
TOTAL NATIONAL SPENDING:                                                57,600    59,200     8*-8139 8Z0                940 0.0    800
EDUCATION AS % OF NATIONAL SPENDING:                                      33%       33%    i3      '"1           1        1
Primary Educalion                           57.80%1 57.35%   63.76%   65.04%    85.51%1 64.52%   64.28%   64.97%   64.55%1 64.18%   63.99% 
Secondary General                           23.34%~ 24.53%   18.48%   15.52%    14.60%   17.23%   17.69%   1749%   18.24%   18.97%   19 62%  ~
Secondary Technical                          28%      27%      22%       17%       19%       .8%     29%       .1%     2.80%/   2.79%    2.76%
Higher Education                            16.24%   15.38%   15.52%   17.65%    17.94%   15.58%  .15.27%   14.74%   14.42%   14.08%   13.63% . 0"
0<



FINANCIAL PLAN (1994-1999)                        MARCH 10. 1994
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
V COST RECOVERY (in millions CFAF)
PRIMARY
School Fees                                                 0.       3.
Exam. Fees C.E.P.                                                             1
Total Primary:           11.9   517.5   551.8    593.8
SECONDARY
School Fees                                        263 291          249      11
Exam Fees B.E.P.C.                                   .       9.      107       1:
Exam Fees BAC306                                            21       284       8.
Exam Fees C.A.P.2.                                           27       33       36
Special Exam78                                               49        3       48
Total Secondary:          305.7   301.6   310.6    323.8
UNIVERSITY
School Fees                                        41.8    58.8    58.8       54.9
Productive ActivIties 21
Total University:         41.8    58.8    58.8        54.9
TOTAL COST RECOVERY                                359.4   875.9   919.2    972.4
of which
School tees:29.                                         25     895         9.
Exam Fees:                                     6.       5.       97       6.
Productive Activities:
GOVT. SHARE OF EDUCATION BUDGET:         18,226   18,949   15,743   19,137    19,297        :                           
COST RECOVERY: 
Parents' ContributIons:                         359      876      919      972
Productive Activities 21:                                ~                                           .',.~-a
__________   ~ ~ ~ ~   4Y  ~~~                        c.~~  .~
TOTAL GOVT. & COMMUNITY
IRESOURCES FOR EDUCATION:                 16,226   16,949 115,743 119,137 119,297 ~  .t'4Q    ~~~ 



51
MONITORING INDICATORS                                                  ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
95/96           96(97_       97/98              98/99         99/2000
Enseignement elementaire
1. Scotarisation de
202.000 6teves environ
pour un taux brut de
scoLarisation de 59X
*classes financ6es par le                      150             300              150
projet
*recrutement de maltres                        500             500              500            500
contractuets
2. Reduction des
disparites garcons/fittes
*proportion de
fitles/enseignement
primaire                     36X              37X             391             40X             41X
3. Am6tioration de ta
qualite et de
lefficacite interne
*diminution du taux de
redoublement: CI C01.
CM2                         25,26,44         23,24,43        21,22,42         19,20,37       17,18,32
*diminution du taux
d'abandon dons te
primaire                    13               12               10              10             10
' Provision de nouveaux       157.500 ex.      219.500 ex.    228.00 ex.
titres                      (6 titres)       (10 titres)    (12 titres)
*Reassortiment,
renouveltement du stock
initial:
- GOUVERNEMENT                               43.700 ex.      61.600 ex.      260.400 ex.
C 2 titres)    (4 titres)       (8 titres)
Enseianement secondaire
*augmentation du ratio
616ve/professeur            1/32             1/33            1/35             1/36           1/36
*provision de nouveaux       28 titres
titres                      130.400 ex.
*reassortiment, renou-
vellement du stock
initial (ler cycle)
- GOUVERNEMENT                                                35.900 ex.
(16 titres)
PARENTS (APEs)                                                               133.200 ex.
(16 titres)



Republique du Bonin
Projet d  developpment de l'education
1soIet Coat SUAC
*     *Total
(Local '000)                   CUSO '000)           Foreign    Base
Local    Forelan    total    Local   Foreaon lotal   Echang   Costs
.         Ceetmeat cost
A.  1      U.1
Ecolas Primaires                                     261,736.7 646,530.8 908,267.5    810.5  2,002.0  2,812.5            71       1S
Foyers                                                411713.8 190,029.7 231,743.5    129.2    588.4    717.6            82        4
Bureaux MEN                                          109,923.9 271,529.2 381,453.0    340.4    840.8  1 181.2            71        6
S       tot     CS                                      413,374.4 1,108,090 1,521,464  1,280.0  3,431.2  4,711.3            73        24
a. awr3
IOUIPBflRNT                                           41,167.0 187,538.7 228,705.8    127.5    580.7    708.2            82        4
Vehicules                                             17,113.4  77,960.9  95,074.3       53.0    242.4    294.4          82         2
Mobiliers                                             74,007.5  81,204.2 155,211.7    229.2    251.5    480.6            52         2
itotal B1l                                              132,287.9 346,703.8 478,991.7    409.6  1,073.6  1,483.2            72         8
C. 1uU.S EOMAwU
Production des manuals scolaires (stock initiel)             - 1,617,117 1,617,117           -  5,007.4  5,007.4        100       26
Livraison des manuels scolaires (stock initial)   62,113.6 158,241.8 220,355.4    192.3    490.0    682.3                72        4
Reasortiment des stock - Niv.au Secondeire                   - 721,199.7 721 199.7           -  2,233.2  2,233.2        100       12
8s1tot  )MUU* OCSnAl                                     62,113.6 2,496,559 2,558,673    192.3  7,730.7  7,923.0            98        41
D. RMvzS
Assistance Technique - Internationale                  1,145.1 190,342.3 191,487.4         3.5    589.4    592.9         99         3
Assistance Technique - National                      112,605.1          - 112,605.1    348.7          -    348.7          -         2
Pees Architectural                                   94,871.1  42,709.1 137,580.3    293.8    132.3    426.0            31        2
Subtotal SVZt 8                                         208,621.3 233,051.4 441,672.7    646.0    721.7  1,367.7    .53                7
11. FOg
Formation a l' tranger                                       -  88,486.2  88,486.2           -    274.0    274.0        100        1
Formtion locale                                      279.630.5   1.743.9 281,374.4    865.9         5.4    871.3          1        5
Sutotal Iva&&=                                          279,630.5  90,230.1 369,860.6    865.9    279.4  1,145.3            24         6
F. P?0RAMG   PILOTS                                      71,568.0  80,735.6 152,303.6    221.6    250.0    471.6            53         2                                                 W
G. ESUES ES RECNERCHES                                   16,031.2 201,516.1 217,547.3        49.6    624.0    673.6         93         3
N. RNFINANCEMENT DE L'AVANCE                             54,391.7  61,359.1 11S,750.7    168.4    190.0    358.4            53         2
tota   4watsmt Cet                                          1,238,019 4,618,245 5,856,263  3,833.6 14,300.5 18,134.1            79        94
II. 3aa.xzemt cts'
A. CWTS D iOCT iM
mIaintenance Vehicules                                30,115.8  75,891.5 106,007.3        93.3    235.0    328.3         72         2
Maintenance Equipments                                45,087.8  21,798.6  66,886.5    139.6        67.5    207.1         33         1
Iaintenance Batiments                                 40,989.1          -  40,989.1    126.9          -    126.9          -         1
Deplacement                                           96,514.6          -  96,514.6    298.9          -    298.9          -         2
Fourniturew de Bureau                                 43.083.9  20,829.8  63 91i.7    133.4        64.5    197.9         33         1
Tetal Neoaczeat Coeas                                       255,91.  118,519.9 37:4: j.31        9.       367.0  1191           3 
Total  nI C  CoS0S                                           1,493,818 4,736,765 6,230,574  4,625.6 14,667.  19,293.1            7        100
Physical Contingencies                                     129,54311 443,642.8 573,185.9    401.1  1,373.8  1,774.9            77         9
Price Contingencies                                        603 010.9 2,024,454 2.627,465    399.0  1,369.1  1 768.1            77         9
Tota. I     t  Cos                                            2,226,364 7,204,861 9,431,225  5,425.7 17,410.4 22,836.1           76       118
Tue Mar 22 16:21:46 1994
(IQ
0~
rch
00
8-1 Project Cost Summry



Ropublique du Benin
Projet de developp.ment de l'education
ktojeot Cost Sqiunry
I     I Total
(Local '000( CUSS '000)                           Foreign    Bave
Local    Foreion    Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchna   Costs
A. mliOeor 1raaee l'x ecoles priafrec
Acces a  l'ecole                                                    403,405.3 646,530.8 1,049,936  1,249.2  2,002.0  3,251.2         62       17
Programme pour Ias fillus                                          221,141.9 420,175.6 641,317.5    684.8  1,301.1  1,985.9          66       10
Subtotal Amelioaer la'ce  au  ecolae  prisaize                         624,547.2 1,066,706 1,691,254  1,933.9  3,303.1  5,237.0         63        27
B. Ameliczre la qualite de 1'oducation primaire  at aeccda*re
Encadrement Pedagogique                                            275,994.8  54,415.8 330,410.6    854.6    168.5  1,023.1          16        5
Production et Distribution des manuals scolaires                   103,336.8 2,543,063 2,646,399    320.0  7,874.7  8,194.6          96       42
Subtotal Aliovr la qalite de l'educatiom  priira   at  econdaire 379,331.6 2,597,478 2,976,810  1,174.6  8,043.2  9,217.8               87        48
C. bAeliorer la aapacite de gestiom at planification
Renforcement la capacit. de planification ot coordination            98,031.8 158,467.9 256,499.7    303.6    490.7    794.3         62        4
Gestion de ressources humaines at financieres                       337,507.4 852,752.8 1,190,260  1,045.1  2,640.6  3,685.7         72        19
Subtotal -mliero   la capaoite 4. gestico  et plaifloat4Cn             435,539.2 1,011,221 1,446,760  1,348.7  3,131.3  4,479.9         70        23
D. Rafinancoment do lavance                                             54,391.7  61,359.1 115,750.7    168.4    190.0    358.4         53         2
total BA83L    COSTS                                                    1,493,810 4,736,765 6,230,574  4,625.6 14,667.5 19,293.1         76       100
Physical Contingencies                                                129,543.1 443,642.8 573,185.9    401.1  1,373.8  1,774.9         77         9
Price Contingencies                                                   603,010.9 2,024,454 2,627,465    399.0  1,369.1  1,768.1         77         9
Total 1WICCS COSTS                                                      2,226,364 7,204,861 9,431,225  5,425.7 17,410.4 22,836.1         76       118
Tue Mar 22 16:21:27 1994
Ln
71 c
O C4
ao
7-1 Project Cost Summry



Republique du X4nin
Projet de devloppaent de( 1oducation
1uominint moat. by IL.    Os.
(US$ '000)
Local
The Governoent          IDA          CWMZISIES            Total          For.   CS2cI. Duties
Amount    II       lount             o               AitMout    I       Exch.  Taxes)  S Taxes
A. QQ5 CLY
scoles Primaires                               607.3    18.0  2,766.5      82.0       -        -  3,373.8     14.8  2,401.5   364.9   607.3
Foyers                                         155.0    18.0    70S.9      82.0       -        -    860.9      3.8    705.9        -   155.0
8ureaux MEN                                    251.6    18.0  1,146.0      82.0       -        -  1,397.6      6.1    994.8  25.2   251.6
Subtotal G     C=VZi,                           1,013.8    18.0  4,618.4      82.0       -        -  S,632.2     24.7  4,102.3   516.1 1,013.8
B. B8S
Squipemnts                                     147.5    18.0    671.8      82.0       -        -    819.3      3.6    671.8        -   147.5
Vehicules                                       60.5    18.0    27S.6      82.0       -        -    336.1      1.5    27b.6        -     60.5
Mobiliers                                      101.4    18.0    462.1      82.0       -        -    S63.S      2.S    294.8   167.3   101.4
Subtotal    8                                     309.4    18.0  1,409.5      82.0        -       -  1,718.9      7.5  1,242.2   167.3   309.4
C. 3SN8 I0ATB
Procurement                                   S68.2      6.S  5,981.4      68.7 2,163.1    24.8  8,712.7      38.2  8,712.7
Distribution                                   150.7    20.0    602.e      80.0       -        -    753.5      3.3    541.1   137.0    75.4
Stotal 8BNC.S SCOU S                              718.9     7.6  6,584.2      69.6 2,163.1    22.9  9,466.2      41.5  9,253.8   137.0    75.4
D. SYXR
Policy Support                                     -       -    495.0    100.0        -       -    495.0       2.2    473.8    21.3        -
Project Preperation/Xmplementation Support         -       -  1,704.7    100.0        -        -  1,704.7      7.5  1,033.2   671.5        -
Institutional Development                          -       -    182.1    100.0        -       -    182.1       0.8     63.9   118.2        -
Subtotal Sw S                                      --            2,381.8    100.0        -        - 2,381.8      10.4  1,570.9   810.9         -
IC. SRcm
Formation a letrangor                              -       -    320.7    100.0        -        -    320.7      1.4    320.7        -       -
Forcation locale                                   -       -  1,037.4    100.0        -        -  1,037.4      4.5       6.4 1,031.0       -
Subtotal    Zw                                        -       -  1,358.1    100.0        -        -  1,358.1      5.9    327.1 1,031.0         -
i. CW.TS   D tS!ll3uI
Maintenance Vehiculos                          157.6    40.0    236.4      60.0       -        -    393.9      1.7    282.0   111.9        -
Maintenance Equipments                         100.0    40.0    149.9      60.0       -        -    249.9      1.1      81.4   168.5        -
Maintenance Batimnts                            20.7    13.3     31.0      20.0   103.5    66.7    155.2       0.7         -   155.2       -
Deplacement                                     59.0    16.9    290.5      83.1       -        -    349.5      1.5         -   349.5       -
Fournitures de Bureau                           95.0    40.0    142.5      60.0       -       -    237.5       1.0     77.4   160.1
Subtata Cos rM   c           s                    432.2    31.2    850.3      61.3   103.5      7.5  1-,386.1     6.1    440.9   945.2         -
G. PROGRAMME PILOTS                                   -       -    520.8    100.0        -        -    s20.8      2.3    276.1   244.7         -
B. REPItNMCU?NT DR L'AVANCE                           -       -    372.0    100.0        _        _    372.0      1.6    197.2   174.8         -
Total                                            2,474.3    10.8 18,095.2      79.2 2,266.6      9.9 22,836.1    100.0 17,410.4 4,027.2 1,398.5
Tue Mar 22 16:20:48 1994
0QZ
¢ ;i
o  -
GOI 
P mtti
5-1 Procuroent Accounts by Financi rs



Republique du Benin
Projot de developpoent de 1 ieductLon
_WN M e tk*     oD ut. bc_ 00 -t& - tota. 2e1udiga  OmtinVencbow
(US$ 'COO)
A.lior*r la qualite do  Aolioror la capecite do
l'educatien prinaire ot gaution at planificatLon
AMliorer              secadaire          flRenforcmont
1 'acces aux                 Production   la capocite  Gastion do
coles primaires                      at           de        r"Osourcs
Acces  Prograu                Distribution planification  huaines
a     pour le  Encadrzent des  -nuols          et            et       Refinancoont
lecole  filles    docicuo   scolaires   coordination  financiores  do 1 avance  Jotal
X    _ystamat Coot
A.       czvu.
Scoles Primaires                                    3,373.0                                     -                                        -  3,373.8
FOyer.                                                    -     860.9            -             -              -            -             -    860.9
Bureaux  m                                                -          -           -             -              -     1,397.6               - I1397.6
1atol  CGM                                             3; ,373.8   860.9                           - -           -     1,397.6               -  5,632.2
3mtPDIS                                                   -          -           -             -              -       819.3              -    819.3
Vehicules                                                 -       16.4                                        -        319.6              -    336.1
Nobiliers                                                 -     195.4            -             -              -       368.2               -    563.5
btotal                                                       -     211.8                           - -           -      i,S07.1              -  1,718.9
C. NASO M
Production des manuals scolaizes (stock initiel)          -          -           -       5,981.4              -            -             -  5,981.4
Livraison des manuols scolaire  (stock initial)           -         -            -         753.5              -            -             -    7535
Roassortiment des stock - Niveu, Scndairc                            -           -       2,731.2              -            -             -  2,731.2
^totel amwd lowAUM                                                                          9,466.2              -            -              -  9,466.2
Assistance Tecbnique - Internationale                     -     366.0         73.7             -            6.8       250.0               -    696.5
Assistance technique - National                       132.8     267.3          3.0             -              -          4.1              -    407.2                              >
Fos Architectural                                    227.6      66.1            -             -              -       200.9              -    494.5
Subotow  OW                                              360.3      699.4        76.7             -            6.8        454.9              -  1,598.2
3.   D tBI0
Formationc a ltranger                                     -          -       120.0         166.4           34.2            -             -    320.7
Foration local.                                        12.3        1.7     1,003.8             -           15.4          4.3             -1037 4
Stotal  OSDOT                                             12.3        1.7     1,123.8         166.4           49.6          4.3              -  1,358.1
F. PROGRbI3 PlOTS                                            -     520.8             -            -              -            -              -    520.8
G. STUDS ST RBaIERCHBS                                       -          -            -            -          493.6        290.0              _    783.6
B. RBFIMNCNUIT Ds LBAVSCB-                                              - -  -                                   -            -          372.0    372.0
total i*ssatst Coot                                        3,746. 4   2,294.5      1,200.5      9,632.6          S50.1      3,653.9          372.0 21,450.0
i. a.twnt Costs
A. cam t   VCIOinn
Nainttnance Vehicules                                             29.3            -            -              -        364.7              -    393.9
Naintenco Squipsments                                                -                                        -        249.9              -    249.9
Maintenance Batioents                                 103.5          -           -             -              -         S1.7              -    155 2
Deplaceont                                             34.8          -           -         147.5          167.2            -              -    349.5
Fournituros de Bureau                                     -       SS         16.6             -          215.4            -              -    237.5
total MAaent Coo"                                            13 3.       34.8 W   -1. 16 6        147.5          382.6        666.3              - 1,386.1
Total MN=  CoSt                                             3,884.7   2,329.3       1,217.1      9,780.2          932 7      4,320.2          372.0 22,836.1
Taxos                                                       607.3      193 1            -         75 4              -        522.8              -  1 398 5
Foreign Exchange                                          2,401.5   1,535 0        198.6       9,420.2          568.0      3,089.8          197.2 17,410.4
Tue Mar 22 16:22:52 1994
CO
10-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies



Republique du Bonin
Prol t do dcvaloppa.nt de l'oducction
MxV=t  1ru  _0Ote  b y Yt
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Continoencies
9S/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    Total
S.  tvoot coot.
A. G     CS f
scolos Primaires                                          -    822.7  1,686.6    864.4         -  3,373.8
Foyers                                                    -    279.9    286.9    294.1         -    860.9
Sureaux MEN                                           160.2    555.8    564.0    117.6          -  1,397.6
ubtotal        CZL                                       160.2   658.4  2,537.S  1,276.1           -  5,632.2
a. am=
3QUIPDSENT                                            375.3    444.0         -           -     -    819.3
Vohicules                                             336.1         -        -        -         -    336.1
Mobiliows                                             146.2   28S.S       65.1     66.7         -    563.5
$Ubtotal Us                                              857.6    729.5      65.1     66.7         -  1,718.9
C.               . ECOLAS
Production des manuols scolaires (stock initiol)          -  2,653.2  1,611.2  1,711.0          - 5,981.4
Livraison dos manuals scolairos (stock initial)           -    181.S    186.0    190.6    19S.4    7S3.5
Reaasortiment des stock - Niveau Secondairo               -        -    568.2  2,163.1          -  2,731.2
Subtotal  18       S08ATS                                    -  2,834.7  2,365.3  4,070.8    19S.4  9,466.2
D. smzm
Asuistsnco Technique - International.                 298.4    187.9      68.4     70.1      71.8    696.5
Assistance Technique - National                       213.9     99.2      30.6     31.4      32.2    407.2
Feas Architectural                                   251.8    175.0      46.4     17.0      4.4    494.5
Subtotal     1088                                        764.0    462.0    145.4    118.5    108.4  1,S98.2
Z. IS386
Formation a letranger                                 139.3    107.1      24.0     24.6      25.2    320.7
Formation locale                                      279.9    209.2    204.8    200.1    143.4  1,037.4
Ibtotal   SC                                             419.2    316.8    228.8    224.7    168.6  1,3S8.1                                                                        Vt
F. PROGRANO4  PILOS                                          -    12S.4    128.6    131.8    135.1    S20.8
0. ETUDES ST RECHERCHES                                  556.7     29.3      87.9     30.7      79.0    783.6
R. REFDNANCENOT DE LIAVCoCE                              372.0         -   -             -         -    372.0
Total Znyestent Coots                                      3,129.6  6,156.1  S,S58.5  5,919.2    686.5 21,450.0
I. Suoursest costs
A. CO00     i   Izovinm
Maintenance Vehicules                                  74.9     76.8      78.7     80.7      82.7    393.9
maintenance 3quipements                                26.3     53.9      55.2     56.6      58.0    249.9
HainteIAnce BatimettS                                     -     20.7      38.1     47.7      48.8    155.2
Deplacemnt                                            104.7    118.6      45.0     46.1     35.1    349.5
Fournitures do Bureau                                  45.2     46.3      47.5     48.7     49.9    237.S
total  eMzemt Costs                                          251.1    316.3    264.5    279.7    274.6  1
Total 1m1  003                                              3,300.7. 6,472.4  5,823.0  6,199.0    961.1 22,836.1
tu Nar 22 10 23:48 1994
12-1 Expeediture Accounts by Y"rs



Republique du Benin
Projet de developpement de 1 education
Memdaawoe aooouats by finamaiero
(US$ '000)
local.
The Government          IDA           COMMUNITIES           Total          For.   IExcl. Duties
Amount      I     Amount      I          hmn    I      Amount      I      Exch.   Taxes)  & Taxes
X. naestoant coeoe
A. GSXE  Cv
Ecoles Ptrimaires                                      607.3    18.0  2,766.5       02.0        -       -  3,373.8       14.8  2,401.5   364.9   607.3
Foyers                                                 155.0    18.0    705.9       82.0        -       -    860.9        3.8    705.9        -   155.0
Bureaux MEN                                            251.6    18.0  1,146.0       82.0        -        -  1,397.6       6.1    994.8   151.2   251.6
Subtotal 1       Cry                                    1,013.8    1%.0  4,618.4       82.0        -        -  5,632.2      24.7  4,102.3   516.1 1,013.8
B. BA2tS
EQUIPEMBDT                                             147.5    18.0    671.8       82.0        -        -    819.3       3.6    671.8        -   147.5
Vehicules                                               60.5    18.0    275.6       82.0        -        -    336.1       1.5    275.6        -    60.5
M4obiliors                                             101.4    18.0 _462.1         82.0        -        -    563.5       2.5    294.8   167.3   101.4
Subtotal BD2S                                             309.4    18.0  1,4095        82.0        -        -  1,718.9       7.5  1,242.2   167.3   309.4
C. 0U0.7S SCrAntf
Production den mAnuels scolaires (stock initial)           -        -  5,981.4    100.0         _        _  5,981.4      26.2  5,981.4        -        -
Livraison des manuels scolaires (stock initial)    150.7    20.0    602.8           80.0        -       -    753.5        3.3    541.1   137.0    75.4
Reassortiment des stock - Niveau Secondaire            568.2    20.8          -        - 2,163.1    79.2  2 731.2        12.0  2,731.2        -        -
subtotal          SCOISI S001A:                           718.9      7.6  6,584.2      69.6 2,163.1    22.9  9,466.2        41.5  9,253.8   137.0    75.4
D. SZVD2
Assistance Technique - Internationale                      -        -    696.5    100.0         -        -    696.5       3.1    692.5      4.0        -
Assistance Technique - National                            -        -    407.2    100.0         -        -    407.2       1.0         -   407.2        -
Fees Architectural                                        -        -    494.5    100.0          - o          494.5       2.2    154.3   340.1         -
subtotal  UYZVX8                                              -        -  1,598.2    100.0         -        -  1,598.2       7.0    846.    71.4          -
S. z>Dzzcy
Formation a Iletranger                                     -        -    320.7    100.0         -        -    320.7       1.4    320.7        -        -
Formation locale                                           -        -  1,037.4    100.0         -        -  1,037.4       4.5      6.4 1,031.0         -                            OD
Subtotal Vr cS1Z                                              -        -  1,358.1    100.0         -        -  1,358.1       5.9    327.1 1,031.0         -
F. PROGRAI    PILOTE                                          -        -    520.8    100.0         -        -    520.8       2.3    276.1   244.7         -
G. ETUDES ET RECHERCHES                                       -        -    783.6    100.0         _        -    783.6       3.4    724.1    59.5         -
H. REFINANCEMENT DE L'AVANCE                                  -        -    372.0    100.0         _        -    372.0       1.6    197.2   174.8         -
total lhWeaet Costs                                         2,042.1      9.5 17,244.8       80.4 2,163.1    10.1 21,450.0       93.9 16,969.5 3,081.9 1,398.5
rr. Ieburrent Coats
A. COS D OUXN!
Maintenance V*hiculas                                  157.6    40.0    236.4       60.0        -        -    393.9       1.7    282.0   111.9         -
Maintenance Equipements                                100.0    40.0    149.9       60.0        -        -    249.9       1.1      81.4   168.5        -
Maintenance Batiments                                   20.7    13.3      31.0      20.0   103.5    66.7    155.2         0.7         -   155.2        -
Deplacement                                             59.0.   16.9    290.5       83.1        -        -    349.5       1.5         -   349.5        -
Fournitures de Bureau                                   95.0    40.0    142.5       60.0        -        -    237.5       1.0     77.4   160.1         -
Total Recurrnt Costs                                          432.2    31.2    850.3        61.3   103.5      7.5  1,386.1       6.1    440.9   945.2          -
Total Di dburemt                                             2,474.3    10.8 18,095.2        79.2 2,266.6      9.9 22,836.1    100.0 17,410.4 4,027.2 1,398.5
Tue Mar 22 16:20:08 1994
18 tz1
X
0%
01
3-1 Expenditure Accacts by Firnawerc



Republique du Senin
Projet de doveloppoment do l' ducation
.t    etg by rinauere
(USS 000)
LocI,l
The Government           IDA           COM4JNITIES           Total           For.   (xcl.
Amount      I     Amount      t      Amount  _t         Amount      I       Exch.   Taxes)
A. AmJliorer l maoo a= ecole. prinairex
Acces a  l'ocole                                                          607.3    15.6  3,173.9       81.7   103.5       2.7  3,884.7       17.0  2,401.5   875.9
Programme pour les fill.s                                                207.0       8.9  2,122.3      91.1        -        -  2,329.3       10.2  1,535.0   601.3
Su3btota3. Aeliore  l Vaeoee  sc eeoleo primaair                             814.3    13.1  5,296.2        85.2   103.5      1.7  6,214.1       27.2  3,936.5 1,477.2
B. Amlioorer l  qualite do l'edueatioo primaire at  ecoondre
Encadremont Pedagogique                                                     6.6      0.5  1,210.5      99.5        -        -  1,217.1        5.3    198.6 1,018.4
Production at Distribution des manuels scolaires                         777.9       8.0  6,839.2      69.9 2,163.1    22.1  9,780.2         42.8  9,420.2   284.6
Subtotal Ameliorer la qualite de l edueation primaixro  et .eaodaire   784.5            7.1  8,049.7       73.2 2,163.1    19.7 10,997.3        48.2  9,618.9 1,303.0
C. Amelieer la capweite de gestion et planificaticn
R nforcement la capacite do planification at coordination                  86.2      9.2    846.5      90.8        -        -    932.7        4.1    568.0   364.7
Gestion de reasourcos humaines et financieres                            789.4    18.3  3,530.8        81.7        -        -  4,320.2       19.9  3,089.8   707.5
Subtotal Amelioer la oapacita de gestion at planification                    875.5    16.7  4,377.3        83.3        -       -  5,252.8       23.0  3,657.8 1,072.1
D. Refinancemont do l'cvance                                                     -        -    372.0    100.0          -        -    372.0       1.6    197.2   174.8
!otal Disburaamnt                                                           2,474 .3    10.8 1S,095.2       79.2 2,266.6       9.9 22, 836.1    100.0 17, 410. 4 4,027.2
Tue Mar 22 16:19:44 1994
-n
*1 &
CD a
O H
2-1 Components by Financiera



Republique deu Bonin
Proj t de developpe.nt de 1 educaticn
Loaal/romeigmnazes by 1iaano4ez
(USS '000O
The GCovernmnt        IDA          CWIM8AUITIES         Total
bount    I    Amoun t    t    Piouzt    t          Amount    I
1.  Foreign                660.8     3.8 14,586.5     83.8 2,163.1    12.4 17,410.4     76.2
IL.  Local (Excl. Taxes)   414.9   10.3  3,SC8.7      97.1  103.5      2.6  4,027.2     17.6
111. Ta"Xs               1,398.5   100.0        -        -       -       -  139.5        6.1
Total foJect                2,474.3    10.8 18,095.2     79.2 2,266.6     9.9 22,836.1    100.0
Tue Har 22 16:20:36 1994
0
CD C
O1    l
4-1 Loca1/Foreign/T7aata b~y Pinanceirs



61
AYNN3VDI
Page 1 of 13
MANUELS SCOLARES
1 -   LE CONTE=
Les manuels scolaires sont, dans les classes, un facteur d6tenminant dans
l'appr6ciadon d'un systeme dducatif. Leur disponibilite est un signe du bon
fonctionnement du systeme, tandis qu'une p6nurie quelconque I ce niveau pose des
probltmes qui relevent non seulement de leur distribution mais dgalement de leur
production et de leur coat
Dans le cadre de 1'am6lioration et du d6veloppement de son systeme 6ducatif, la
Rdpublique du Bmnin accorde une importance parficuhiere au livre scolaire. Cependant,
malgre les efforts d6ploy6s par le G(ouvernement, les ecoles primaires et secondaires
disposent de trbs peu de livres. Les ouvrages acquis sur le Fonds Social en 1991, les
dons de livres consentis par les pays amis et les ONG ont contribu6 I amdliorer la
situation. Les ratios livrefflbves demeurent, cependant, trbs faibles A cause notamment
de l'accroissement rapide des effectifs et de l'inexistence d'un m6canisme pour maintenir
et renouveler les stocks. Ia situation des livres scolaires est d'autant plus pr6occupante
que la faiblesse des taux de succbs aux exnamens et des taux de promotion constitue, &
l'heure actuelle, un veritable flMau i combattre. Par cons6quent, il est souhaitable de
proc6der I l'am6lioration des ratios livre/eleves, notamment dans les disciplines de base.
2 -    OBJECIIPS Er ACIONS A MNE
2-1 Objectlfs
La pr6sente composante des manuels scolaires se propose de couvrir les
disciplines instrumentales que sont le frangais et les math6matiques. ElMe vise les objectifs
suivants:
a)    Mettre a la disposition des ecoles du primaire et du premier cycle du
secondaire un stock inutial de quelque 747 000 exemplaires;
b)    Assurer la maintenance et le renouvellement de ce stock initial;
c)    Former le personnel de 'INE, de la DEP et de la DES en vauation
des livres scolaires et en confection de leurs cahiers de charges
p6dagogiques et techniques;
d) Former les enseignants a une meilleure utilisation des manuels scolairea;
et
e)    Foumir une assistance technique au MEN dans le domaine de la
prparation des dossiers d'appel d'offres et du dpuillement des offie=.



62
ANNEXEVI
Page 2 of 13
2-2 Actions & mener
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, les actions suivantes seront mendes:
a)    Achat et distribution des livres:   I1 est prevu de reviser les programmes
d'enseignement dans le cadre de I'eventuel 3e projet education. Par consdquent, il n'est
pas sage de se lancer maintenant dans des activit6s d'elaboration des manuels scolaires
correspondants. Pour reduire le manque de manuels scolaires dans les ecoles, des livres
existants conformes aux fondements et a la methodologie des futurs programmes seront
achetes par appel d'offres international. Ils seront distribues dans la proportion d'un
livre pour deux eleves, et d'un livre par enseignant. Les quantites A acqu6rir sont
indiquees dans les tableaux la (p.6) et lb (p.7) de la presente annexe. L'INFRE, la DEP
et la DES s'inspireront des resultats des s6minaires-ateliers sur l'evaluation des manuels
scolaires pour prparer les specifications pedagogiques et techniques des dossiers d'appel
d'offres.
Pour eviter les nombreuses difficult6s rencontrees lors de la distribution des livres
acquis sur le Fonds Social, trois mesures sont envisag6es:
(i)    Le fournisseur sera charge de proc6der au colisage de tous les ouvrages
par DDE, CS et ecole. A cet effet, la DEP et la DES etabliront, avec le
concours des Directions des ecoles, la liste des ecoles et les quantitds qui
leur seront distribu&s;
(ni)   Deux ou trois distributeurs pnves locaux seront charg6s de la r5ception
des livres, de leur magasinage provisoire 6ventuel I Cotonou, de leur
transport et de leur livraison I toutes les 6coles. Ces distributeurs scront
s6lectionnes par appel d'offres local. Ils seront payes par le projet au vu
de tous les bordereaux de livraison des ouvrages aux 6coles;
(iii)  La r6ception des livres dans les ecoles sera faite par une commission
compos6e du Directeur d'cole, des autorites politiques et administratives
locales, des representants des APE et/ou des organisations
communautaires. Un bordereau de livraison en trois exemplaires sera
d8ment signe par le distributeur, le Directeur d'dcole et le repr6sentant
des APE et/ou de l'organisation communautaire. Les exemplaires du
bordereau seront distribues comme suit:
- Distributeur:           I exemplaire;
- Directeur d'dcole:      1 exemplaire;
- MEN:                    I exemplaire.



63
ANNEXE VU
Page 3 of 13
Le calendrier des op6ratiorns d'acquisition et de distribution des manuels scolaires
figure en page 11 de la prdsente annexe.
b) Maintenance et Renouvellement du stock initi
Pour assurer un approvisionnement r6gulier et durable des ecoles en manuels
scolaires, le Gouvernement du B6nin va mettre, avec le concours de la Banque Mondiale,
des stocks initiaux de livres a la disposition de toutes les ecoles du primaire et du ler
cycle du secondaire, a la rentr&e 199511996 1I. la maintenance et le renouvellement
du stock initial destin6 au primaire seront financ6s sur le budget du MEN. Quant au
stock mis a la disposition du secondaire, sa maintenance sera finane6e par le
Gouvernement, et son renouvellement par les APE etfou les organisations
communautaires. Le sch6ma de financement, les colits estimatifs et les fr6quences de
maintenance et de renouvellement sont indiques dans les tableaux la, lb, 2a, 2b et 3
(pp. 6 a 10) de la prdsente annexe.
Pour assurer une bonne conservation des livres dans les ecoles et garantir le
renouvellement du stock mis a la disposition du secondaire, le MEN va prdparer et mener
une vaste campagne de sensibilisation et de conscientisation des enseignants, des APE,
des organisations communautires et des libraires priv6s locaux sur la nouvelle politique
d'approvisionnement des dcoles en livres.
c) Formation des ressources humaines
Le volet formation vise I permettre a 'INFRE, la DEP et la DES d'ameliorer
leur comp6tence en matiere d'evaluation des livres scolaires et d'tablissement des
spqcifications p6dagogiques des dossiers d'appel d'offres pour la fourniture des livres
scolaires par le secteur prive national ettou intenional. Huit bourses de stage i
l'etranger, d'une dur6e de trois mois chacun, seront accord6es i des cadres de ces
institutions. Ce volet se propose 6galement d'aider les enseignants a mieux utiliser les
livres scolaires dans le processus d'enseignement. La formation des eneignants du
primaire fera l'objet d'une unit6 p6dagogique dispens6e dans le cadre de la formation
continue. Elle s'adressera d'abord aux Directeurs d'ecole, I l'occasion des s6minaires
de perfectionnement que le projet va organiser a leur intention. Les Directeurs d'ecole
formeront, I leur tour, les maitres qui sont plac6s sous leur contr6le.
d) y.age d'etude
Pour permettre au responsable de la composante des Manuels Scolaires du MEN
de se amiliarise avec les proc6dures de passation de marche, un voyage d'etude a Wt6
organis6 & son intention au S6n6gal et au Burkina Faso. Ce voyage d'6tude, d'une dur6e
11 Les dates pvues dn co docunt poumut cager en foon de la dato d'atr6e en vigun8 do
Cr6dit.



qiI r I..r 
|iI iIA | .
R -0e 
Ii}      r



UUe11 F-X  Lold  AS
'4-  -  R -   -   -   -            I f    
(% Ai                                 X &L



66
ANNEXE YI
Page 6 of 13
FINANCEMENT PAR L'I)A
Les livres destinds A 1'enseignement primaire seront achetds et distribuds en trois vagues.
Talea l VSEIGNMENT PRWMRE
Th7I                         Effed  ZIQunkdsqL
Pranibre Vag" (1995196)
1. Lacture Ci                                              166 72                       83 363
2. Lcture CP                                               124 462                      62 232
3. Guide Lecture                                             3117                        3117
4. Guido Lecure CP                                           2 800                       2 800
S. Guide Culul C18/                                          3117                        3117
6. Guide Calcul CP                                           2 800                       2 S
Nombrexde e    dl sde b lke yvawe                                                      157429
Dezzibue Vague (19907)
7. Franis CEI                                              116666                       58333
8. CakIul CEI                                              116666                       58 333
9. Franqia CU2                                              8 443                       44222
10. CakWl CE2                                               88 443                      44 222
11. Guide Franai CEI                                         2 728                       2728
12. GuidedGtranmai  CE                                       2 728                       2728
13. Guide Calcul CEI                                         2 728                       2 278
14. Guide Lecture CE2                                        2 068                       2 068
15. Gud  Caul CE2                                            2 068                       2 068
16. Guide/Gremmaire CB                                       2 068                       2 06
Nombrc d'exemlainre do bI 2h  vn :                                                     219 498
Tralsibme Vague (7^198)
17. Ftagais CMI                                             78 465                      39233
18. Gramaire CMI                                            78 465                      39 233
19. Calcul CMi                                              78 465                      39233
20. Fanqais CM2                                             66 609                      33 305
21. Orammaire CM2                                           66 69                       33 305
22. Calcul CM2                                              66069                       33 305
23. Guide Fanga CMI                                          1 840                       1 840
24. Guidedactioa                                             1840                        1 840
25. Guide Calcu CMI                                          t840                        1 40
26. Guide Lecu  CM2                                          1 693                       1 693
27. Guide Caul CM2                                           1693                        1 693
28.  .uiA          2 C 1a                                    1 693                       1 64.
Nomrbre d'exemoaibe de I bm vae22  1
Sostold:                                                                               6056140
ExeWm poor  tP e_d o CZ%)                                                               121113
Nombre totd d'exemotalm tnur 1mdl'e_ alm                                               61 243
Prix un;¢aive Mayen:                                                                t SW0 CPA
Co-oulm                                                                          g25 864 500 CPA
.Z Soure ST. SCO. 1989 WDO-DIEP. pagos S7-58.
/ 11 est possible, pour  mus Ie lives de calcl du pdmaire, d'adoj-t-  -   sYm de 1a CONFEMEN at 108
produue, en lots s4paus, par appel d!offres int     ton.



67
ANNE VHI
Page 7 of 13
Les livres destin6s I l'enseignement secondaire sernt achetes meme temps que
la premiere vague des ouvrages du primaire, en 1995/96. lls formeront avec cette vague
un seul lot.
Tableau lb: ErIGNEbENf SECONDAIRE
-in                       Effectif 21/          QwO   requnh
1. Prangas 60                         17 882                   8 941
2. Grammaire 6.                       17 882                    8941
3. Recue do textes 6                  17 882                    8941
4. Math. 6c                           17 882                    8941
5. Frangaisoe                         14733                     7367
6. Grammaire 5o                       14 733                    7 367
7. Reue de textes 5e                  14733                     7 367
8.Math. .                             14733                    7 367
9. Preenais 4e                        15799                     7 900
10. Grammaire 4                       1S799                    7 900
11. Ruido det.xs 4e                   15 799                   7 900
12. Math. 4.                          15 799                   7 900
13. Frnuais 3e                        11319                    5 660
14.Grumaire 3e                        11319                    5660
15. Recuei de textes 3c               11319                    5 660
16. Math.3e                           11319                    5 660
17. Guide Franqais 6                   830                      830
18. GuiddMaction 6.                     830                      830
19. Guide Math. 6                       830                      830
20. Guide Frmnaais St                   690                      690
21. GuideiRd"on Se                      690                      690
22. Guide Math. Se                      690                      690
23. Guido Frangais 4.                   740                      740
24. Guide/R6daction 4.                  740                      740
2S. GuideMath. 4e                       740                      740
26. Guide Fran9ais 3.                   530                      530
27. GuideiRddation 3e                   530                      530
28. Guide Mat. 3.                       530                      530
Sous total                                                    127 842
Exeauplnires pour renadrmui (2%):                              2 557
Nlomnbre total d: aia your lensdismant socondaire:            130 39
P&i unke moyen:                                                2 S00 CPA
CotolaAl:                                                   325 997 S00 CPA
i sue: Anuaim Sbtstiqus Soolaires, MEMS, 88, pagp 43.



68
Page 8 of 13
FINANCEMENT PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT
Tableau Za: ENIGNEMENT MRIMAIUE
T-ireI                       Stock  ial                  Quan*& requla
1996f97
Rassoit CltCP (30 % du stCk
1. Lectur Cl                             83 363                         25 009
2. Leuro CP                              62 232                          18670
Toal 199M                                                                4
assoit CEL
1. Prangais CEl                          58 333                          17 500
2. Calou CE1                             58 333                          17 S00
3. Pragas CE2                            44 222                          13 267
4. CakulCE2                              44 222                          13 267
T2wU22m22                                                                61fS3
1998/99
1. Renouvellaiait CIICP
1.1 lccturCl                            195082                          97541
12 Lctur CP                             195 082                         97541
Total rouvDczunt CUCP.                                                  195 082
2. R.oR CM1/M2M
2.1 Fungais CMI                          39 233                          11 770
2.2 Grmmaiz CM1                          39 233                          11 770
2.3 Calcu CMI                            39233                           11 770
2.4 Fingais CM2                          33 305                          9 992
2.5 Gnrmmaire CM2                        33 305                          9 992
2.6 Cad CoM2                             33 305                           9 992
Total rassolt CM1ICM2:                                                   65 286
Totd 1998J99.                                                          260 368
Tot*fED clmenemat pnmren financf gat le Gouvcnwmfntl                    365 581
Prix untaire moyea:                                                     2 241 CPA
coBl takml                                                           819 267 02OQ &



69
Page 9 of 13
Tableau 2b: ENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIUE
Tltes                       Saock WluW                 Quantldt  requka
1996/97
Ruaaso,tVasemnft du StoCk initi
1. Prangb 6s                               8941                        2 683
2. Graumaire 6                             8 941                        2 683
3. Recuce de txtes 6a                      8 941                        2 683
4. Math. 6                                 8 941                        2 683
S. Frmiai 5                               7 367                        2 211
6. Granunai 5o                            7 367                        2 211
7. Rkcue de tsxts Se                      7 367                        2 211
8. Math. Sc                                7 367                        2 211
9. Fragais 4.                              7 900                        2 370
10. G_ramuire4                             7 900                       2 370
11. Pscuede tcxtos4c                       7 900                       2 370
12. Math. 4e                               7 900                       2 370
13.Franb 3e                               5660                         1 698
14. Grammnaie 3e                           5 660                        1 698
15. Recueilde to=s3e                       5 660                        1 698
16. Math. 3                                5 660                        1 698
PrTod unitasA= stoondaue finane sar l Gou                             370 88              i
Pd ?xunhaltes6madf:                                                    3 7e00CPAI
,CoEtolal                                                          1207§MA              -



70
ANNEX VU
Page 10 of 13
FINANCEMENT PAR LES APE
Tabeau 3: ENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE
rite                           Effecis                    Quanstlts requises
1998/99
Renouvellement du stock 9indal
1. Frangais 6e                              22 954                         11 477
2.Grammaimc6c                               22954                           11477
3. Reouel detxtes 6e                        22 954                          11 477
4. Math. 6c                                 22 954                          11 477
S. FPangais Se                               17265                          8 633
6. Gammaire e                               17 265                          8 633
7. Recoueil de textesc                       17 265                         8 633
8. Math. 5c                                 17 265                          8 633
9. Frangais 4c                               15 762                         7 881
10. Grammaire 4c                            15 762                          7 881
11. Rcueil de textes 4c                     15 762                          7 881
12. Math. 4c                                15 762                          7 881
13. Prangais 3c                             10 593                          5 297
14. Grammaire 3e                            10 593                          5 297
15. Recuel de textes 3e                     10 593                          5 297
16. Math. 3.                                10 593                          5 297
Total enseiga=Mcnt wcondaire financ6 Mar les APE:                          133 1
Prix unaaire catmuif.                                                     3 700 CPA
-CokEto tot:                                                           492 662 400 CPA



i   X   afi i         Xj{l ii
i       a~~~~ a                   0  II ||  
0             'a           S o *h 'a W     X8°



72
ANMMY
Page 12 of 13
12. SNlection des
distributeurs                       Avant fin Juin 1995
13.   Execution du marche
et livraison i Cotonou:             MarsJuillet 1995
14.  Distribution aux Ecoles:             Aott/Septembre 1995
15. Formation des miattres
I l'utilisation des livres:         Sept./Octobre 1995.
Livres CE1/CIE2
AnnEe scolaire 1996197
1.    Etablissement des sp6cifications
p6dagogiques des ouvrages:          Janvier/Juin 1995
2. Mise au point de la liste
des ecoles et des quantit6s
qui leur seront attribu6es:         Avant fin Juin 1995
3.    PrEration du dossier
d'appel d'offres:                   Aofit/Septembre 1995
4.   Approbation du dossier
d'appel d'offres par l'IMA:         Octobre 1995
5.    Lancement de l'appel d'offres:      ler Novembre 1995
6.    Soumission des offies:              Novembre(Dcebre, 1995
7.    Evaluation et arobation
des rEsultats de 1'Evaluation:      Janvier/Fvrier 1996
8.    Signature du contrat:               ler Mars 1996
9.    Exc&ution du marche
et livaison A Cotonou:              Mars/Juillet 1996
10.  Reconduction eventuelle
du contrat des distributeurs:       Avant fin Jmn 1996
11.  Distribution aux dcoles:             AoQttSeptembre 1996



73
ANN wU
Page 13 of 13
12.   Formation des maitres
A l'utilisation des livres:         Sept./Octobre 1996.
Livres CM1/CMZ
Annde scolaire 1997/98
1.   Etablement des spEcifications
pddagogiques des ouvrages:          Janvier/Juin 1996
2.    Mise au point de la liste
des ecoles et des quantitEs
qui leur seront attribuees:         Avant fin Juin 1996
3.   Prdparation du dossier
d'appel d'offres:                   Aoat/Septembre 1996
4.   Approbation du dossier
d'appel d'offres par V'IDA:         Octobre 1996
5.    Lancement de l'appel d'offres:      ler Novembre 1996
6.    Soumission des offres:              NovembreqDcembre 1996
7.    Evaluation et approbation
des rEsultats de l'evaluation:      Janvier/Fvrier 1997
8.    Signature du contrat                ler Mars 1997
9.    ExEcution du marche
et livraison i Cotonoul:            Mars/Juillet 1997
10.  Distribution aux Ecoles:             Aoftt/Septembre 1997
11.  Formation des mattres
a l'utilisation des livres:         Sept./Octobre 1997.



75
ANNEX VIII
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    IDA supervision input. Regular supervision needs are described in Table 1 of this Annex. In
addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual plans, audits, and
procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to require 8 staff weeks of various specialist inputs
a year which are not included in Table 1.
2.    Borrower's contribution to Supervision. The monitoring and evaluation of project progress and
outcomes will be integrated with the monitoring system established in the MEN for the reform program,
with the overall responsibility assigned to the DAPS.
(a)    Progress reports will be submitted twice a year, in March and September. They will
include a summary of implementation under each project component, financial statements on project
expenditures, updated project implementation and procurement schedules, as well as the status of contract
advertising, bidding, awards and completion dates and compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement. The DAPS, in collaboration with the DAF, will collect inputs from each
responsible MEN directorate and prepare the reports.
(b)   Joint annual reviews. Once a year, around October, the DAPS will organize a joint
IDA/Govermnent review of project implementation based on: (i) the progress report in the above
paragraph which, for the purposes of the annual review, will also include (ii) an annual work program
and budget for the next academic year; (iii) a draft budget for the overall education sector for the next
year; and (iv) the status of policy and project monitoring indicators as listed in Annex V.
(c)    Mid-Term review. The DAPS, together with the DAF, will carry out not later than 3
months after credit effectiveness, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the project.
The review will cover all aspects of the project, with a special focus on: (i) the progress in implementing
policy measures and their impact on staffing, cost and efficiency of the system, increase in girls'
participation, lowering repetition at primary schools, and completing the in-service training program; (ii)
the effectiveness of the different modalities of implementing the reconstruction/rehabilitation program for
primary schools and boarding facilities for girls, the textbook replenishment program and the ability of
the APEs to finance their expected share; (iii) the progress in the studies on exam reform; (iv) the
progress achieved in training education staff; (v) the progress in implementing systems for double-shift
and multi-grade classrooms and the recruitment of contractual teachers (non-civil servants); and (vi) the
scope for interventions in support of the private sector. The mid-term review will also be conducted with
other donors affiliated with the project (e.g. USAID), and will review progress in the implementation of
their programs.
(d)    The DAPS will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision
missions and participating in the mission with them.
(e)    Project Completion ReRort. Within six months of the Credit closing date, a completion
report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, will be transmitted to IDA.



76
ANNEX Vill
Page 2 of 2
Tabb 1. IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
.  ------- -                            ...SKILL                                                    STA1F INPUT
PERIOD                          ACTMVW IRUQUIREBINTS                                                      (sta-weeks)
PROIEr   Pmruiect Lau  Wases.                                      CiHWor _lmplementation                                2
YEAR 1                                                             Education                                             2
PojectManaement                                       2
Tatbocb                                               2
Resident Muon                                         2
SuaavinfosaMlnd.n                                      Education                                             2
Review p       of all compoent iluding poliy           Project Management                                    2
framework phl  pafoma prject maement nd                Impmentation                                          2
pgrm in the prepaation of bid document tal ting        Reident Mission                                       2
tstbooktuoc_et_
PROIECr
YEAR 2    1st Joint Aupmd Review
Review progress in put year ad plans for the newt yr. including Cvi Works/implnntation                       2
the man-gemen of boading faes. Wtbook ditibtion        Education                                             2
prcurmnt of goods and services. training pag_ TOR's    Project Malgement                                     2
forcoutant ad studies to becaruied-out, budgetary      Tatbooks Specialist                                   2
allcatdonand eSpeditursp        wcoutingad auditing    Residet Mission                                       2
and policy frameo
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w CobAmumntWi                                                                 2
Edueatbl                                              2
Project Management                                    2
Resident Mision                                       2
PROJECr
YEAR 3    2nd iat Am_I R_Ir.                                       Cii WoWbAmp tation                                    2
Education                                             2
Prpoect Muagemnt                                      2
Residet Mission                                       2
Much 1997  Sn einha   ai Jfid-Ta  R                                CvilW zmpe          tion                              2
Compraehesive  vime of pojet input, operations and     Education                                             2
outcom   and restacture prect if necer                 Project Management                                    2
T tbooSpeciit                                         2
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  R eid ent M i                     2
YEAR 4    3rd JdatA mal  Rss,                                      Civil W    _mpmentation                               2
Education                                             2
Proect Management                                     2
Reident ission                                        2
S umeaCk Wrm                                                             ttion                               2
Educgtbn                                              2
Project Management                                    2
.______._____._____.._______.               ____   Resident M ission                                     2
YEARS    4thIlA Ami Reid w                                         ChD                                                   2
Educxtbn                                              2
Pwrect Manament                                       2
Resddent Mion                                         2
SuaesahimsMhalea(Cenihdmlksamss*I.s)  To be determined                                    10



77
BENIN                                         ANNEX IX
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                               Page 1 of 4
Implementation Schedule
Calendar of Activities
(.-Preparation. design. biddingtselection, etc.; x=planned period of Implementation)
IPre-I            Proiect Year
Project Element                -Pro}eet    t    21                                                4
1. INCREASE ACCESS AND EQUiTY AT PRIMARY/SESONDAY
(A) PRIMARY SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION
- Development of school building standards
- Production of standard documentation on propositions for                ....
school infrastructure
- Carry out nationwide inventory of primary school buildings              ..
- Definition of new roles/responsibilities of personnel to be involved    .....
in improving school infrastructures
- Rehabilitation and reconstruction of 200 schools
- Study Tours                                                              .....
- Recruitment of ContractProcurement Manager                               ...x
- Contract management of works to NGO(s)                                  x....x
- Sensitization seminars at regional level                                    KXXXXX
(B) PROGRAM TO INCREASE GIRLS PARTICIPATION
- Conduct study/field survey to determine key factors that positvely Influence  ... xxx
girls schooling
- Implement Pilot Programs In six sub-regions                                  ..... x x  x x  x x  x x
- Recruitment of 12 Motivators                                                 ..x
- Training of 12 Motivators                                                     ... x   x   x    x    x
- Rehabiiitation and/or reconstruction o16 boarding facilies                         x    x    x
2. IMPROVE QUALtTY AND EFFICIEN CY OFPRIMARY ANDS
'EDUCATION
l(A) IN-SERVICE TRAINING
- Development of management training modules                                  x x
- Training of Trainers                                                        x x
-Training of 120 Inspectors- Pfimary Level                                     ... Xx    x    x    x
- Training of 240 Pedagogic Counsellors - Primary Level                        ... xx    x    x    x
- Training of 2800 Directors - Pimary Level                                       .  x    x    x
- Training of 300 Directors - Secondary Level                                    ..  x    x
- Carry out a study of examination reform at primary and secondary levels      ... x x
- Study Tours                                                                   x    x    x    x    x
(8) TEXTBOOK PROCUREMENT AND DISTRIBUTION
- Prepare Bid documents for textbook procurement                              A
- Procurement of Textbooks for Primary Level                                     ... xxx xxx xxx
- Procurement of Textbooks for Secondary Level                                   ... xxx xxx xxx
- Textbook Distribution to Primary and Secondary Schools                            ..x  ..x  ..x  ..x
- Fellowships                                                                  xx   xx
- Sensitization Seminar on Textbook maintenance and replenishment               xx xxx xxx  xxx xxxxx



78
BENIN                                           ANNEX IX
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                  Page 2 of 4
Implementation Schedule
Calendar of Activities
(...=Preparation, design, bidding/selection, etc.; x=planned period of implementaion)
'Pre- I             Proect Year      I
Proiect Element                                                            Prolect !   t7  2i   _3   4   5
8. STRENGTHEN SECTOR PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT                                      I    |        f
(A) IMPROVE PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING CAPACITY                                    |
- Carry out a Labor Market Demand Study
- Carry out Project Mid -Term Review                                                   I        x
- Prepare Project Completon Report                                                                        . .xx
- Carry out an audit of University                                                ... xxI
- Development of University students' records management                            .... x x
- Training in Management                                                           .xxx
- Seminars for Univ. Faculty Members and student to discuss audit results               ... x x
(8) FINANCIAL AND HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
- Development of more efficient budgetary process.                              x
- Development and implementaton of procedures for budget execution/control.    ... x
- Development of Project accounting and management system.                    x...x,
- Study on double shift/multgrade systems.                                         . . xxx
- Develop system for double shift/multigrade systems.                                  I..x x
- Develop new system for recruitment of primary school teachers (non -civil servants)  ....x
- Complete reductionlredeployment of personnel in Administrtion             ... x x x x x
- Rehabilitation of central MEN Offices                                        ... xxxi xxx xxx xxx
- Rehabilitab'on of six DDEs                                                   ... xxx ixxx xxx xxx
- Carry out annual audits of Project                                              I x  I x    x  j x    x
- Training in financial and human resources management                             .x x  x x xI 
- Supervision of civil works                                              j          xx1  xxj XX   XX



79
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 4
BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and OtVir Payments
(including taxes and dutes, in USS million)
(Q= QuantW
Pre-  I                 Project Year    _              Total
Prolect Element                   frofet        1       2        3        4       5S Payments  Remarks
CREDIT TIMING (tenttative daftes)
Board: March, 1994                 x
Signing: May. 1994                 x
Effectiveness: September 30, 1994                                                             Close: 6th
Year
WORKS
Architects Contracting             x
Rehab.lReconstruction of 200
Pnmaqy Schools
- Design (Q)                                (50)    (100)    '50)
- Contracting (0)                           (50)   (100)    :!0)
- Construction (0)                                   (50)                              (200)
0.9     1.6      0.9               3.4 LCB
Boarding Facilites
- Design (0)                                 (2)      (2)     (2)
- Bidding +Contracting (0)                   (2)      (2)     (2)
- Construction (0)                                    (2)     (2)      (2)               (a) LCB
0.3     0.3      0.3               0.9
Rehabilitatfon of Central Offices
(MEN Cotonou, Dir. de Bouse,
Immueble Soglo, DEC. DRH)
- Design (Q)                        xx
- Bidding +Contracting (Q)                   (5)
- Construction                              [   ........ ........ ........                (5J
0.1     0.3      0.3   - 0.1                0.8 ICB
Rehabilitation of 6 DDEs
- Design (0)                        xx
- Bidding +Contracting (0)                   (6)
- Construction                               [      .    .     .... ........()
0.1     0.2      0.2      0.1               0.6 lCB
GOODS
Proc. Special Contracting          x
Bidding Doc. Preparation           x            x       x        x        x
Bidding + Contracting              x            x       x        x        x
Vehicles                                      0.4                                          0.4 ICB
Other Imported Goods (office +                0.4      0.4                                 0.0 ICB
communications equipment
Local Fumiture                                0.1      0.3     0.1      0.1                0.6 LCB
TEXTBOOKS
Textbook Procurement (0)                          (290.97) (259.736) (305,929)
2.6     2.2      3.9               6.7 ICB
Textbook Distribution                                  0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2       0.8 LCB



80
ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 4
BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(including tIxes and duties, in US$ million)
(Q= Quantity)
IPre-                    Project Year                   Total
Project Element                Proiect         1       2_    3          4       S5 Pavments  Remarks
SERVICES
TORs                               x
Short Usts                         x           x        x       x        x       x
Selection + Contracting            x           x        x       x        x       x
Foreign Specialists                          1.1      0.4     0.2      0.1     0.2       2.0 IDA
Local Specialists                            0.2      0.1    0.03    0.03    0.03        0.4 Consultant
Guidelines
Training Abroad                              0.1      0.1    0.03    0.03      0.03      0.3
MISCELLANEOUS
Local Training/Seminars                      0.3      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.1       1.0
Oper. + Maintenance                          0.2      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.2      1.3
Pilot Proram for Girls                       0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.5
PPF Refinancing                              0.4                                         0.4
TOTALS                                       S.5      6.4     5.6      6.4     0.6      22.91
(IDA-Financed)                I        L    3.31    5.21      4.91    4.01    0.7      18.11



81
ANNEX X
IEPUBUC OF BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(net of taxes and duties, in US$ million equivalent)
PROJECT                     Disbursement                    Disbursement
YEAR        Semester        in Semester     Cumulative      % of Total   Profile 1/
1      (efctveness)              0.2            0.2              1%       0%
1                   0.7            0.9              5%       10%
2                   1.3             2.2            12%       18%
2           3                    1.2            3.4             19%       26%
4                   2.8             6.2            34%       34%
3           5                    2.7            8.9            49%       46%
6                   2.4            11.3            62%       55%
4           7                    2.3            13.6            75%      66%
8                   1.8            15.4            85%       78%
5           9                    1.8           17.2             95%      82%
10                   0.5           17.7            98%       90%
6           11                   0.3           18.0             99%      94%
12                   0.1           18.1           100%       96%
7           13                                                           981%
14                                                          100%
V Couatry Disbrsem6nt Piofll



83
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 2
BENIN: PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'EDUCATION
MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
TABLE DES MATIERES
SECTION 1: LE PROJET
1-1 :Lettre de politique sectorielle
1-2 : Cadre du Projet
1-3 :Objectifs et 6tendue du Projet
1-4 :Description du Projet
1-5 :Couits estimatifs
1-6 : Plan de financement
1-7 :Coordination des donateurs ou bailleurs de fonds
1-8 : Principales conditionnalites
SECTION 2: DISPOSITIONS D'EXECUTION
2-1 : Coordination et gestion
2-2 : Direction d'execution par composantes
2-3 : D6legation de la maitrise d'ouvrage pour les travaux de genie civil
2-4 : Dispositions specifiques par composantes
SECTION 3 : PLAN D'EXJICUTION
3-1 : Calendrier d'execution du projet
3-2 : Calendrier d'acquisition des biens et services
3-3 : Indicateurs-cl6 de suivi d'execution physique
SECTION 4: ACQUISITIONS
4-1 : Modalites de passation de marches
4-2 : Examen de l'IDA
4-3 : Autres proc6dures



84
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
SECTION 5: DI2BOURSEMENTS
5-1   : Cat6gories de d6boursement et r6allocation
5-2 : Compte spdcial
5-3   : Retrait du compte de crEdit
5-4   : Fonds de contre-partie
SECTION 6: TENUE DES COMPTES
6-1   : Systhme comptable et budg6taire
6-2 : Termes de reference des auditeurs
6-3   : Calendrier d'intervention des audites
SECTION 7: SUIVI ET EVALUATION
7-1 : Planning de supervision de l'IDA
7-2 : Supervision intene
7-3 : Contribution du MEN a la supervision
ANNEXES
ANNEXE 1: Modele de convention de la dElEgation de maitrise d'ouvrage pour des travaux de
genie civil
ANNEXE 2: Modele de dossier d'appel d'offres Equipement
ANNEXE 3: Modele de lettre d'invitation pour les services de Consultans.
ANNEXE 4 : Modele de dossier d'appel d'offres pour les travaux de genie civil
ANNEXE 5 : Lettre de deboursement



85
ANNEX XII
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations
(as of March 11, 1994)
Amnt in USS miltlao
(less cmteltations)
.....................
Lam or       Fiscal                                                                                Unls-  Closir
Credit No.     Year  Sorui                           Purpose                     a           IDA     bursed  Date
..........    ......    ........                     .......                    ....         ---  ...   ...    .......
Credits
29 Credits(s) ctose                                                                        m.2s
C15300-BEN    1985   REPUBLIC OF BENIN               TECINICAL ASSISTAMU                    5.00       1.29 03131194(R)
C17210-9EN    1986   REPUKIC OF BENIN               WUTER II                               10.00       1.12  12/31/93
C17480-BEN    1987   RERiBLIC OF IENIR               PUBLtC ENTPRISES                      15.00      11.13 06/30/95
C18070-SEN    1987   REPUBLIC OF BENIN               TRANSP.INFRAST.                       19.50       .84 03/31/95
C19600-BEN    1989   REPBLIC OF DENIN                TELECOJ4ICATIONS                      16.00      2.38  12/31/94(R)
C20310-8EN    1989   REPUBLIC OF BENIN               WATH ShEMS DEW                        18.60      8.96 09/30/9
C22830-DEN(S) 1991   REPLBLIC OF BENIN               MIL It                                55.00      15.71  06/30/94(R)
C22840-SEN    1991   REPUBLIC OF ENIN                POIER REHA                            1.00       14.33  12/31/97
C22850-BEN    1991   REPIBLIC OF BENIN               ARIC. SERVIES                         12.30      10.47 06/30/
C22860-EN     1991    REPUBLIC OF ENIN               M-INVESTENT                            5.40      4.59 06/30/95
cZE38O-E      1992   REPJIC OF BENIN                 UAU tE1A & MT                         22.84     22.00  12/31/97
C23440-DEN    1992   REPUBLIC OF BENIN               NOT OF NAT RESJCE                     14.10      10.96  12/31/97
C25290-8EN    1993   REPUBLIC OF BENIN               RUL CtIT It                            3.80      3.89  06/3/99
C25520-BEN    1994   RERPBLIC OF ENIN                ECON. NT.                              5.20      S.14  12/31/98
TOtAL mubr Credits a  14                                                                    217.74    112.80
TOTAL***                                                                   490.72
of which r fsd                                                            20.37
,. ...  ..  ... .... ..
TOTAL held by 8 * & IDA                                                    470.35
Awunt sold
of Aidh rqmid
TOTAL uidisbrsed                                                                      112.91
Amt in t nttlllIn
(less catcelatias)
........................................._
Loam or   Fiscal                                                                                Ibds- Closlno
Credit No.  Year  Borrour                         Puapoe                                  IDA     bsed  Date
...------- _..._............ .... ......          ._. ......       .... ......            ...     ....
C2030-DEN  1989   REPUBLIC OF BIN                 $AL 1                                 45.00       .00  12/31/1990(R)
Total REPWBLIC OF SENIN
45.00       .00
Notes:
.......... .............._
* Not yet effective
N lot yet sired
Totat Aqxovd, Repaymnts, ard Otstadf  bsl  represent bth actiw ard frctifve Lte    d Credfts.
(R) irdicates forelaly revised Cloginr Date.
CS) indicates SALSECAL Loa   md Credits.
The Met Arved awd S         Rspsmm    we historical vatue, eLl others ae   mwet vaLue.
The Signiri. Effective, wd Closirg data ar baed ion the Laon DOsuwt offieal cta ad am art takm
from the Task 8uiget f ile.



87
ANNEX XMi
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
-     Document Cadre de Politique Educative de la Republique du Bnin, 1991
-     Dteclaration de Politique Educative et de Strategie Sectorielle, 1992
-     Plan Financier 1992-1996
16 ACTION PLANS FOR REFORM OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
-     Carte Scolaire
*     Systeme d'Information
--    Augmentation des Chances dAcces
-     Ecole de Qualit Fondamentale
-     Organisation
*     Processus Budgetaires
*     Ressources Humaines
*     Formaxion Administrative
*     Equipement
*     Programmes d'Enseignement (Enseignements primaire et secondaire)
*     Formation Continue et Reseau d'Animation Pedagogique (enseignements primaire et
secondaire) Documentation Pedagogique et Reseau Documentaire
*     Mobilisation des Ressources Financieres et Participation du Public dans le Processus de
la Reforme
*     Manuels Scolaires et Materiels Didactiques (Enseignements prinmaire et secondaire)
*     System.re d'Evaluation et Orientation des Eleves (Enseignements primaire et secondaire)
*     IntMgration au Milieu et Cantines Scolaires (Enseignements primaire et secondaire)



MA a I            N  I G E R                                               / 
, B/ SFURoKINA                                            Si ' '  si                                IL'
_FAS                                                 , 4, KonhroO               f        /   ! F SO.j 
i-                           /'>   /                      2         /       < Foooogo  .s 
NIGERIA ~~                     ~              ~             i~*NGEi
¢   qd                                                               J    KANI  OS U R K              °
-11  X S 0}sesl  na"Bl
i ~ ~~~~~~~~                                     Y,;  .                          G.6.of       5f      )fe 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
TANGVII>S                                                          
Ko&    To~oa1FuOKv 
10                                                                                                                                           4 r     .50.  K  °a   
B* ~        ~            ~           BEI
JEDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
D-4  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ -PrnnCip0l Roads
SAVALO               o                                        -     Railways
4.  twe4tionol Airponts
0                               t 0     (JAofields
OASSAZOIJ    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~   RiverS
*  Notional Capital
a                       lfltOflsK~~~~Intentionl (l oundaries
A,a.n Asegaej     _ .                                           K40a01F4S 0     20    40  _  0    so    too
9-0         S                       8MLES 0    40   20   30   40   50  40
T O G~~~~~~O                      1              k..a
00~~ ~ iNi n,ajcet tdoodo n                                                                    BEN 
LOME5SO  02                                                        EV
a<nptonct of soehn                 --                               t    t2
S~ ~ ~~f                                                                                                                                  4 leomth  



