Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2613 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 10, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2613 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (B)  the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated March 
11, 1994 describing a series of actions designed to achieve certain policy objectives 
in the Borrower's education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MEN" means Ministere de l'Education Nationale, the Borrower's Ministry 
of Education;
(b)
"DAPS" means the Direction de l'Analyse, de la Prevision et de la 
Synthese within MEN;
(c)
"APEs" means Associations des Parents d'Eleves, the associations of 
parents of students;
(d)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Selected Agency" means any of the agencies, organizations or firms 
employed by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to 
manage the works to be carried out under Parts A.1 (a) and A.2 (b) of the Project and 
to manage the boarding facilities to be rehabilitated or constructed under Part A.2 
(b) of the Project;
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 17, 1991 and July 22, 1991 between the Borrower and the Association;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the common currency of the Borrower and other 
members of the West African Monetary Union.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 29, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
Page  3
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MEN with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative and educational practices, with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Manual and with the 
Imple- mentation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation on its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) beginning October 31, 1994 and, thereafter, not 
Page  4
later than October 31 of each year, review with the Association the execution of the 
education sector's recurrent budget and annual work program for the ongoing fiscal 
year as well as an assessment of resource requirements for the following year; (b) on 
the basis of such review, each year include in its annual recurrent budget for the 
following fiscal year appropriate amounts, acceptable to the Association, to cover 
salary and non-salary recurrent costs for the education sector for that year 
consistent with the financial plan for 1994-1999 and the monitoring indicators set out 
in the letter referred to in Preamble (B) of this Agreement; and (c) implement its 
annual recurrent budget in each year as set out in the preceding paragraph.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
not earlier than 30 months after the Effective Date and not later than 33 months after 
the Effective Date a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
and the Program.
(b)
The terms of reference of the mid-term review shall be acceptable to the 
Association and shall include an assessment of: (i) progress made in achieving overall 
Project objectives; (ii) MEN's role in the execution of the Project; (iii) textbook 
procurement and distribution, and textbook replenishment by the APEs; (iv) progress in 
the execution and management of civil works; (v) management of the boarding facilities 
to be constructed or rehabilitated under the Project; (vi) progress in the 
redeployment of teachers; (vii) the recruitment system for contractual primary school 
teachers to be developed under Part C.2 (c) of the Project; (viii) implementation of 
training activities and the performance of staff trained; (ix) implementation of the 
pilot programs to be carried out under Part A.2 (a)(ii) of the Project; and (x) 
Project management. In addition,
as part of the mid-term review, the Borrower shall prepare a program of action, 
satisfactory to the Association, to deal with deficiencies in Project implementation 
identified during the review.
(c)
MEN shall transmit to the Association, at least 30 days prior to the 
mid-term review described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, a report, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Association, describing the status of the items listed in 
such paragraphs and of Project and Program implementation generally.
(d)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly: (i) prepare an action 
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and 
the Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan; and (ii) adopt and, 
thereafter, implement a budget, satisfactory to the Association, containing minimum 
annual allocations to cover recurrent costs for the education sector for the remainder 
of the Project period.
(e)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, during the 
fourth quarter of each year (other than 1997), a review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project and the Program.
Section 3.05. Without limitation on its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, beginning October 31, 1994 and, thereafter, not later 
than October 31 of each year, review with the Association the Borrower's three-year 
rolling investment program for the education sector in the context of overall resource 
availability for the sector. Annual investments in the education sector, not included 
in the aforementioned investment program and exceeding a cumulative amount equivalent 
to $1,000,000, shall be subject to the Association's prior approval.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  5
not later than three months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has prepared and submitted to the Association bid packages, 
acceptable to the Association, for all the major packages to be procured under 
International Competitive Bidding procedures during the first year after the Effective 
Date;
(b)
the Borrower has prepared contracts acceptable to the Association, for 
the consultant's services required under the Project for the year following the 
Effective Date;
(c)
the Borrower has employed an independent auditor, acceptable to the 
Association, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to audit the 
Project accounts;
(d)
the Borrower has adopted an Implementation Manual satisfactory to the 
Association, detailing procedures for carrying out activities under the Project;
(e)
the Borrower has developed draft operational guidelines, satisfactory to 
the Association, for textbook replenishment by APEs; and
(f)
the Borrower has completed the establishment of: (i) a system for 
computerized monitoring of the budgetary and accounting practices of MEN; and (ii) a 
system for the training of appropriate MEN staff at the central and regional level, as 
Page  6
well as the training of the accountant and the contracts manager of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B. P. 302
Cotonou, Benin
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINFIN
5009
Cotonou
5289
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                                Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated                % of
                                (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                                       80%
         (a) under                 2,030,000
             Part A.1 (a)
             of the
             Project
         (b) under                   510,000
             Part A.2 (b)
             of the
             Project
         (c) under                   870,000
             Part C.2 (d)
             of the
             Project
(2)  Equipment                       730,000        
100% of foreign
     and vehicles                               
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)  Furniture                       360,000        
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(4)  Textbooks:                                     
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
    (a)   Purchase                 3,630,000
    (b)   Distribution               440,000
(5)  Consultants                   1,600,000        
100%
     Services
(6)  Training                        870,000        
100%
 
(7)  Operating costs                 580,000        
60%
 
(8)  Pilot Programmes (for           360,000        
100%
     Part A.2 (a) (ii)
     of the Project
(9)  Refunding of                    290,000        
Amounts due
     Project                                        
pursuant to
     Preparation                                    
Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                        
of this Agreement
 
(10) Unallocated                     930,000
          TOTAL                   13,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
Page  8
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs incremental to the 
Project incurred by MEN for supplies, vehicle and machinery operation and maintenance, 
and field allowances.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) until and unless the 
Borrower has adopted operational guidelines for the management of the boarding 
facilities to be rehabilitated under the Project and has entered into the management 
contracts referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (4) until and unless the 
Borrower has adopted operational guidelines, satis- factory to the Association, for 
textbook replenishment by APEs.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works and services not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to the exe- cution of the 
Program by: (i) increasing access to the Borrower's schools while improving the 
attendance rate of girls; (ii) improving the quality and efficiency of the Borrower's 
primary and secondary schools; and (iii) strengthening the planning and management 
capacity of the Borrower in its education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Increase of Access to Education
 
1.
Primary School Rehabilitation and Reconstruction:
 
(a)
Rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of about 600 classrooms in about 200 
primary schools in order to increase the number of student places and to improve the 
conditions under which students receive their education; and
(b)
carrying out seminars at the regional level for MEN staff and for members 
of the APEs involved in the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project in order to 
increase their capacity to coordinate school construction and rehabilitation programs.
2.
Increase of Participation of Girls in Primary and Secondary Education:
 
(a)
Increasing the enrollment rates and decreasing the drop-out rates of 
girls in primary education through, among other things:
(i)
carrying out field surveys to identify factors that positively 
influence girls' enrollment and/or continued participation in 
primary schools; and
(ii)
implementing pilot programs in selected regions to increase girls' 
enrollment and continued participation in primary schools using 
the results of the field surveys referred to in the preceding 
sub-paragraph.
(b)
Increasing girls' participation in secondary education through 
construction and/or rehabilitation of six boarding facilities for female secondary 
school students.
Part B:
Improvement of Quality and Efficiency of Primary and Secondary General 
Education
Page  9
1.
In-service Training and Improvement of Examinations System
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of primary school education specialists to 
design and develop education inputs through training of inspectors, pedagogic 
inspectors and school heads in the design and development of modules for the 
in-service training and evaluation of primary school
teachers.
(b)
Carrying out a study of the existing examination system in order to 
identify reform to support examination restructuring, including reforms of the 
examination fees system.
(c)
Provision of training to strengthen the management skills of heads of 
secondary schools.
2.
Provision of Textbooks
 
(a)
Acquisition and distribution of about 750,000 textbooks and teachers' 
guides in French and mathematics to primary and lower-secondary general education 
schools.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of MEN staff to evaluate and procure 
textbooks.
(c)
Carrying out a national sensitization exercise for APEs and local 
communities on the implementation of the operational guidelines for textbook 
replenishment referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Part C:
Strengthening of Sector Planning and Management Capacity
 
1.
Planning and Programming
Strengthening the capacity of the central and regional offices of MEN to plan 
and coordinate education sector activities through:
(a)
carrying out a labor market demand study in order to develop vocational 
education and training interventions for the future;
(b)
carrying out an audit of the National University of Benin to evaluate its 
management and its academic relevance, including seminars for faculty members and 
students of the National University of Benin to discuss the results of such audit; and
(c)
carrying out a training program to strengthen the management skills of 
MEN staff.
2.
Financial and Human Resource Management
 
Strengthening the capacity of MEN in budget monitoring, accounting and financial 
management and in staff management through:
(a)
development and implementation of a three year training program for 
administrators in the central and regional offices of MEN;
(b)
carrying out a study to determine the feasibility of double shift and 
multigrade classrooms at primary school level;
(c)
development of a recruitment system for contractual (non public servant) 
primary school teachers, including carrying out of a preliminary study; and
(d)
improvement of working conditions of MEN staff,  rehabilitation of the 
central and regional offices of MEN and acquisition of office equipment, furniture and 
vehicles.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two  predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with said Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.
3.
Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party 
inspection firm.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Benin may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Works under Part A.I of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $70,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,400,000, works under 
Part A.2 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, furniture, materials and 
supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, and services contracts for textbooks and 
teachers' guides distribution under Part B.2 of the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$600,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
Page  11
such procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Manual and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Implementation Manual in such a manner as to materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
2.
Project monitoring and coordination shall be the responsibility of DAPS.
 
3.
Review meetings, chaired by the Director of DAPs with the participation of the 
various services involved in the execution of the Project, shall be held at the end of 
each calendar quarter.
4.
DAPS shall prepare and furnish to the Association, by March 31 and September 30 
in each year after the Effective Date, a progress report acceptable to the 
Association.
Part A of the Project
5.
The Borrower shall enter into management contracts satis- factory to the 
Association with non-governmental organizations acceptable to the Association to 
provide for:
(a)
the management of the works to be carried out under Parts A.1 (a) and A.2 
(b) of the Project; and
(b)
the management of the boarding facilities to be constructed or 
rehabilitated under Part A.2 (b) of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall comply with, and shall cause the Selected Agencies to comply 
Page  12
with, the terms of the management contracts entered into in accordance with the 
preceding paragraph and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such management 
contracts or any provision thereof without the consent of the Association.
7.
MEN shall complete the field surveys described under Part A.2 (a) (i) of the 
Project not later than 12 months after the Effective Date.
8.
MEN shall start the implementation of the Pilot Programs referred to in Part A.2 
(a) (ii) of the Project by no later than 18 months after the Effective Date. The Pilot 
Programs shall be in 6 sub-regions (sous-prefectures) selected from among the three 
Regions in the territory of the Borrower having the lowest rate of girls' enrollment.
9.
The boarding facilities to be constructed and/or rehabilitated under Part A.2 
(b) of the Project shall be in the three Regions in the territory of the Borrower 
having the lowest rate of girls' enrollment at the secondary level.
Part C of the Project
10.
The Borrower shall carry out Part C.2 (a) of the Project and shall implement a 
recruitment system satisfactory to the Association for contractual (non public 
servant) teachers for primary schools by March 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (8) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  13
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that  the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that anypayment out 
of the  Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
